ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62781	... It's time for agenda number 13. - Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 689/2008. [[Home is not saved.]] The European Parliament and the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 635. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62782	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. As this is already happening as we approach EU membership negotiations, more and more legal acts from the EU level will also need to be taken over by the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the European Union shall not be adopted in such a way as to introduce domestic legislation and domestic acts are already fully adopted, and domestic legislation shall ensure that the regulation is implemented. This means domestic legislation should, in this case as well as any other cases, determine which authority is responsible for the control of the implementation of the import and export of dangerous chemicals, with which everything can be co-operated, who will control all of this. It means who will carry out inspection, administrative and other supervision and in the event of infringements which will be in breach of the provisions and in which way criminal provisions will be demoted in breach of the legal provisions and regulations. You have one such regulation in front of you. The Regulation is a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals. In Europe, this Regulation, given that the earlier regulation which regulated that area, was also subject to the European Court of Justice. A new Regulation has been drawn up after the judgment of the European Court of Justice. In the year 689/2008, and this proposal, the regulation, which defines the competent authority of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, i.e. the competent authority for health care, shall cooperate with the areas of agriculture, the environment, transport, the economy and customs, that jurisdiction will be above the Inspection of Administrative Control of the Ministry of Health and Social Care of the Sanitary Inspection, and customs supervision of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the provisions of the customs administration of the Ministry of Finance have been defined. It is also necessary to say that this law and this Regulation enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62783	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on Health and Social Care, Honorable Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62784	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee discussed the bill as a parent working body. After hearing the applicant's representative in the opening statement, it was explained that the basic reasons for proposing amendments to and supplementing this law are to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. The proposed amendments and additions have been highlighted in the debate which follows as necessary in order to comply with the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union Regulation on the export and import of dangerous chemicals from 2008, and are also a mechanism for the implementation of this Regulation. As provided for by law as a competent authority, and this Regulation requires the implementation of the Regulation and of this law, the Ministry of Health and Social Care shall determine which it will cooperate with the central authorities of the State Administration responsible for the activities of agriculture, transport, environmental protection, economy and customs supervision. The tasks identified by the competent authority of the Ministry of Health and Social Care shall include, inter alia, participation with the European Commission and other Member States in the implementation of activities in accordance with the Regulation, in the collection, processing and delivery of data on imports and exports of dangerous chemicals in the previous calendar year, participation with other Member States of the European Union in the notification of chemicals whose import use is prohibited, whose import and use is prohibited and restricted, and participation in the decision-making of chemicals to be imported into the European Union. After the discussion, board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62785	Thank you. Anyone else want any of the board? Not as far as I can tell. So I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62786	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By definition, the chemicals are substances and preparations, and the substances are chemical elements and their compounds in a natural state or formed in a production process including additives that are necessary for their stability, and the preparations are mixtures and solutions of several substances. So, from the very definition, it is quite evident how wide the area is, and when we talk about the scope, then we can say that it is very wide and very wide and almost unimaginable the life of a modern man without chemicals. But there's always that, but, well, a short time ago, unfortunately, we're witnessing here with our neighbors in Hungary when this unfortunate carnage happened, when we really see how harmful it can affect the environment and, of course, people's health. And our concern for the environment must be sustainable and should be, is permanent and we can proudly say that our country in a wider European environment has a relatively well-preserved environment, and of course health care is necessary, necessary. You've seen as much as it costs and health is immeasurable. So there's nothing special to say. So, as far as these circumstances are concerned, every country must, of course, exercise care and care for its environment and, of course, keep the chemicals under control. In that sense, all the countries of the world are still in 1992 through the adoption of AGENDA chapter 21 19. The UN Conference on Environment and Development has committed to strengthen national capabilities for the safe management of chemicals, which includes, of course, an appropriate legal framework to ensure data collection, the establishment of chemical safety management. In Dubai, a strategic approach was adopted in 2006 to international chemical management that obliges countries to assess the situation in the development of national chemical safety programmes. Of course, environmental care in the European Union is being given exceptional attention, there is the Environment Agency, the Chemicals Agency, a number of directives, and this regulation mentioned by Mr. Secretary of State in 2003 and now this 689, which I will say something about later. It would be unfair to say that in our country we do not care about the environment and that it has not been guided, so it is necessary to mention in this place the name of Dr. Stampar and his concern and public health care. It is an immeasurable contribution of course to the toxicological service of the headquarters of the Homeland War, which during the Homeland War played a very important role in the organisation and preparedness of the response to the deliberate use of chemicals or industrial objects for working purposes. In 1997, the Institute of Toxicology was established and was involved in the creation of a fundamental legal framework, but the legal framework is certainly very good, there is the Chemical Law of 2003, there is this Regulation on transport from 2008 of dangerous chemicals, the national chemical security strategy and the validation of the Rotterdam Convention, therefore it is done, which regulates, of course, the prior informational consent to the trade in dangerous chemicals, all of which are therefore the legal framework and all of these are the moments that have naturally contributed, but that is how the negotiations are brought to God by the end of the European Union, so it is expected that, by the end of the year, God will be closed chapter 27 of the environment. In that sense, this 2003 regulation, which, as we heard, fell in court, the European Court of Justice ruled that it was not valid and in that part a new regulation was adopted in 689. In 2008, which we now, as the Secretary of State has said, will not be introduced into our legislation, but our legislation will be settled, and we hope to implement it legally. Therefore, by that regulation, the competent authority for the implementation of Regulation 689 of this law is the Ministry of Health. In the implementation of this law, the Ministry shall cooperate with the central authorities of the State Administration responsible for the affairs of agriculture, environmental protection, transport, sea, economy and sanitary surveillance, and the tasks of the competent authority shall be as follows. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Of course there is a need for supervision, and surveillance will be carried out by inspection inspectors in accordance with the rules governing the part of the authority of the sanitary inspection, and supervision of dangerous chemicals,... performs the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Administration, the administrative supervision is carried out by the Ministry of Health. [[You don't understand.]] It is also said that this law will enter into force on the day of accession to the European Union. It will certainly, along with all of this above, certainly contribute therefore to a quality and security system and protect the environment and improve the health status of the people, and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the same law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62787	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62788	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I'm going to say that the HNS Club, HSU, will support this bill. From the lack of an extensive opening part of Mr. Secretary of State, we've heard what this is all about, so in my debate, I'm going to underline just some basic things. Imports and exports of dangerous chemicals in the Republic of Croatia have been regulated by the Law on the Confirmation of the Rotterdam Convention on the Pre-Sentation Procedure for Certain Dangerous Chemicals and pesticides in International Trade of the Chemical Act and the Regulation on Import and Export of Dangerous Chemicals. Harmonisation of domestic legislation with European Union regulations covers the area of protection of human health and environmental protection against harmful chemicals. This law lays down, as we have already heard, the competent authority and the tasks of the competent authority for the implementation of Regulation 689/2008. The European Parliament and the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals. This law further determines inspection, customs and administrative supervision, as well as criminal provisions. I would just like to underline the further conclusion of the Environment Protection Committee, which is in charge of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, to mention the text of the regulation 689. The European Parliament and the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals shall translate it into Croatian and publish it in the National Journal, and the text shall be attached to the law in question. There's another HNS club, the HUS will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62789	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62790	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, here I am going to be a little more dry than my colleague, so I'm just going to stick to my subject, because he practically elaborated this point very well. So I will proceed from this, namely in my judgment of 10 January 2006 in the case under the heading C-178/03 of the Commission against Parliament and the Council, the European Court of Justice annulled the regulation earlier than 304/2003 because it was based solely on Article 175(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Treaty establishing the European Community and adopted a decision to provide both Articles 133 and 175(1) with the relevant legal basis. However, the Court has also decided that the effects of this Regulation should be maintained until a new regulation is adopted within a reasonable period of time which will be based on the relevant legal basis. This means that the obligations already met in accordance with Regulation No. 304/2003. do not need to be restarted. And now we come, our debate, so taking into account that verdict, Regulation No. 689/2008. The European Parliament and the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals. Of course, because of the need to comply with domestic legislation with EU rules on human health protection and environmental protection against harmful and dangerous chemicals, in accordance with Article. 161. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of the Law implementing Regulation No. 689/2008. The European Parliament and the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals by emergency procedure. I'll point it out now. 3. speaking, competent authority for the implementation of Regulation 689/2008. This law is the Ministry of Health. In the implementation of this law, the Ministry shall cooperate with the central authorities of the state administration responsible for the affairs of agriculture, environmental protection, transport, sea, economy and customs supervision, which is very logical. My colleague also spoke about the powers of the competent authority and I will point out one more article. 4. — below 1. It shall participate with the European Commission and other Member States in the implementation of activities in accordance with Article. 5. Regulations. Secondly, it shall verify the export notifications and deliver them to the European Commission. Furthermore, it shall forward export notifications to the European Commission. Four, collect, process and deliver data to the European Commission on exports and imports in the previous calendar year. The fifth, together with other Member States and the European Commission, participates in the notification of chemicals whose use is prohibited or restricted. Furthermore, it participates in the decision to import into the EU. It then delivers answers to the European Commission. He then carries out the express consent procedure. Ninth, it also provides the European Commission with information on transport. Ten, it provides data on dangerous chemicals. Furthermore, with the European Commission, technical assistance is provided. Finally, it provides the European Commission with information on the implementation of Regulation 689/2008. As far as surveillance is concerned, he exists. First inspection, customs, administrative oversight. As regards inspection supervision, he shall carry out sanitary inspectors in accordance with the rules governing the entire powers of the Sanitary Inspectorate and the control of dangerous chemicals. Customs supervision is carried out by the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance. And with that, I'm going to mention an article. 7th, with Art. 7. means the supervision of exports and imports of dangerous chemicals and the customs authorities in accordance with Article 7 shall be prescribed. 17. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. and this law verifying whether the exporter is exporting dangerous chemicals to which this Regulation applies in box 44. The export declarations indicate the reference identification number, verify whether the reference identification number indicated is correct, and therefore the export authorisation, shall be verified within the framework of the customs supervision of the dangerous chemicals to which Regulation 689/2008 applies. in accordance with the information set out in the Export Declaration and with the accompanying documents. And lastly, there is administrative supervision – carried out by the Ministry of Health. The law will eventually be published in the National Journal, and will take effect on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. And I must point out that as far as the state budget is concerned he means there won't be any problem with that budget. In the end, I must point out that I will support that bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62791	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62792	Thank you, Vice President. At first, I will say that I will support the adoption of this bill, but I would also like to refer to a rather unusual fact relating to this bill which I consider to be nothing more than a certain kind of transposition, in fact, of the EU Regulation, or the European Community into the legislation of the Republic of Croatia and a description of the mechanisms of implementation of this Regulation, i.e. some form of ratification of this Regulation itself. I think it's very unusual that, with this bill, we didn't get the text of the regulation itself because it means that we're actually discussing something that we don't really know about and we're not sure what it means. The fact is that this regulation is binding on all EU countries, so it will also be binding on the Republic of Croatia when it enters the EU, but I think it is a minimum of respect for the MPs and advocates of this Parliament to give us insight into the text of the regulation in order to actually be informed about what we are confirming by this bill. In this regard, I also spoke to the Committee on Environmental Protection, and I therefore appeal this time to the competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Health, which will ultimately be in charge of implementing this regulation, but also to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that these situations are not repeated and that, in the future, when these things come to our table, they will always be within the framework of the bill itself and the regulation that I believe there is nothing disputed even though it is very good and that it will contribute to the introduction of order in this area into the Republic, but I do think that as representatives and advocates, we must have information about this and what we confirm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62793	Thank you. And we still have one debate, and that is distinguished representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62794	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I join my colleague Holly in protesting the fact that we haven't had the opportunity to see the English text of these regulations that we transpose into our legislation. Again, this is one of the urgent laws under the urgent procedure ahead of us in the procedure, but the question arises why an emergency procedure is needed when, in the last paragraph of Article 9, it says, "This law takes effect on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union". So it's about another law with a delay in action. We seem to be specialising here in the Croatian Parliament to pass laws that take effect on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full EU membership, and on that day they will come into the Republic of Croatia chaos because no one has any insight as to what kind of laws will have any effect on the day when everyone enters into force. Which will have a repercussion on the economy. This is particularly important for those laws relating to technical harmonisation Chapter 1- Free movement of goods etc. Also, although this law is only one transposition of the EU regulation in our legislation remains a vague fact, say Article 5, which says that inspection of the implementation of the regulation of this law will be carried out by sanitary inspectors in accordance with the regulations governing and powers of sanitary inspection, and supervision of dangerous chemicals, which is fine. However, since we have not had the opportunity to see into the original EC regulation, we do not know how the EU is arranged and whether such a solution is in line. For example, we recently discussed in the Parliament and the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, which the inspection surveillance truth has arranged two-stage, but finally the final decision has the Ministry of Health and thus the independence of the inspection in that segment is compromised. That this progress report we received from the EU for the period 2010 to 2011, which is indeed very favourable. The Republic of Croatia hopes to join the EU and address the remaining problems. But the fact is that, on page 40, the Commission's report on progress on behalf of the EC says that inspection functions related to the activities of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security have been allocated to the Ministry of Health in question to the independence of the regulatory body for radiation protection. So, all that SDP has warned on that occasion we are therefore passing laws, hoping that the EU will not notice that these laws are not ultimately harmonised with their legal gain or common sense and positive regulations, so we are allowing ourselves these criticisms and pucks. This law that we are currently discussing should certainly be supported, but all these doubts remain regarding the solution of inspection supervision so that it will not happen again that Kadiya beats, Kadiya judges. I don't know. This may be a good solution but the fact that we did not have an opportunity to see how it was solved in the EU and the fact remains that we here in the current tape are passing laws with a delay in validity, and that no one has created a satellite balance in which these laws are interrelations and what is actually going to happen when, at some point like some kind of shock therapy, they all come into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62795	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Yeah. Honorable Ante Zvonimir Golem State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62796	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You should say a few words in the end just so that some things don't stay clear. As I was saying in the opening statement, it's true. The Republic of Croatia does not discuss the regulation, the Regulation is binding on all members. The Republic of Croatia should only regulate its law on how to monitor the implementation of the Regulation. As regards the text of the regulation, I agree with today's debate. I just need to warn that there is a particular problem that is more technical. In fact, all the legal gains of the EU mean regulations and everything the Republic of Croatia assumes means that it does not implement its legislation but takes over, the date of accession will be published in the Croatian language in the official EU pages. What's the matter, why I say it's a little technical problem, which is the publication of such text in an unofficial translation in the National Journal can legally lead to destruction. And what we must do, we must do that must be an official translation. In the manner of this, and in agreement after the conclusion of the Environment Protection Committee, we accept the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. By agreeing with the chairman of the board the only thing in the text of the conclusion, I'll read it so it won't be unclear. "It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Social Care that the text of Regulation (EC) No 689/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals translated into Croatian publishes in the National Journal," so that it will be an unofficial translation and this should be made clear. What should be pointed out in particular, just so that the day Croatia joins the EU, on that day, would suddenly introduce a huge amount of various EU regulations as said here, which is why these laws that will enter into force on that day are passed earlier, so that through the code of consultation with the interested public and with direct contacts and with those concerned. So by the economy who's importing and exporting and all the others who have an interest or somehow live, they could get to know what's going to happen on the day of accession, and then on that day they're ready not to do what's being said here. We believe that if a large amount of regulations were then passed on that day that only then would chaos occur and no one would know who would do what. And therefore this will be one in a series of regulations and there will be more regulations ahead of you, and in that part I agree that, with each such regulation, the original text of the Regulation is also delivered to the representatives. The Ministry cannot enter official translations, it is a matter of institutions that are already preparing for the entire legal gain in the official language of the European Union, which will be Croatian on the day of entry into the European Union, to be published in the official publication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62797	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62798	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law implementing Regulation No 689/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 635. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal for a law implementing Regulation of the European Community No 689/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposed final bill. Score. This bill was adopted by 104 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against. The Committee on Environmental Protection proposes to the Croatian Parliament a conclusion which reads: "It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Social Care that the text of Regulation No 689/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals be translated into Croatian, published in the "National Journal" with the text of the law in question." The Government's representative accepted this conclusion as amended, saying: "It is up to the Ministry of Health and Social Care that the text of Regulation No 689/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals is translated into Croatian and published in the National Journal." Does the Committee accept this amended conclusion? Accepts? Yeah. The board president accepts. I am voting on this amended proposal for a conclusion that I have read last. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal was adopted by a majority of votes, 105 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62799	Moving to point 2. This is - Final proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements No. 1st guarantee agreement of 1 February 2005 between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 636. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Mario Babic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62800	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is indeed a great pleasure to read or hear in the media in these late autumn weekends about over 10,000 tourists arriving for cruises. Ladies and gentlemen, Dubrovnik is the third destination in the Mediterranean and the ninth in the world. This contract is proposed to be concluded precisely in order to continue work in Dubrovnik and not to keep Dubrovnik from maintaining third port status in the Mediterranean, but to be even second if necessary, and it will be likely. This project is part of the project of reconstruction and construction of Croatian ports. Currently, works worth 504m euros are being carried out in Croatian ports. The Brajdica container terminal is being upgraded in Rijeka, the final first phase ended in Zadar. It's a project worth over 240m euros. In Sibenik two weeks ago, Croatia's Parliament confirmed the loan agreement for the new city of Vrulje. The selection of contractors is currently under way, and I believe that the last days of December will begin in Sibenik. In August, the extension of St. Duje's gat was placed on the market and is currently being done to prepare documentation for the so-called St. Summer tourniquets. In August, a container terminal was placed on the market. At the end of the year, we expect the start of work on the decommissioned cargo terminal. Dubrovnik. In the spring of this year, Dubrovnik was placed on a reconstructed coast where the works began in 2005 by reconstructing the 800m coast. In Dubrovnik all currently built cruises in the world can agree, so regardless of the length and the gauze. This new Batahovina project intends to get another 200 metres of coast, which has never been built, which is the part from Kantafig to the root of the Franjo Tuđman bridge, which will give Dubrovnik another 200 metres of shore, i.e. it has the possibility of binding another cruise. I want to point out that this is only a small part of the job. Therefore, in this part of the construction of the infrastructure, the Republic of Croatia, or the Government, has done its job, the infrastructure has been built and will be completed very soon. The call for an international tender and the award of a concession for the construction of a superstructure follows. This is followed by large investment works and works that will benefit the city of Dubrovnik in the first place, because it is not only objects that will benefit passengers. It's about other facilities that will use a city like that bus station and stuff. The loan is 34 million and 500,000 kuna. The first stage that had already been completed was 24 million and 500,000 kuna. This new phase is 8 million, pardon the euro. 13-year payout, three-year start, interest rate, euro libor plus 1%. In view of the traffic in Dubrovnik, we have no doubt that the Dubrovnik Port Authority will be able to repay the loans and we do not doubt that it will not be necessary to activate the guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62801	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? There's no sign-ins. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We have a debate on behalf of the club, on behalf of HDZ representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62802	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of the Treaty on the Attestation of Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on the Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which, by amending the Treaty, complements the basic Treaty of February 2004, when the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, through the guarantee of a clear Republic of Croatia, granted a 26-and-a-halfm-euro loan to the Port of Dubrovnik, which was intended to build, upgrade and reconstruct the coast of the port of Greece in order to enable the increase of the traffic of cruises, ships on a circular journey and ships flying to, connecting Croatian ports along the coastal line from Rijeka to Split, or on international lines from Dubrovnik to the Republic of Italy. The project, as Mr. Secretary of State said earlier, was completed, in a way that marked the completion of that part in the 2nd month of this year, and thus practically the basic project of enlargement and reconstruction of the Greek port was completed. However, during the construction and execution of the works at that first stage, the need to build up the rest of the port of Greece, in the area of Batakovina, which would be primarily intended for ships that connect... the islands and all those islands and ports that gravity the Greek port and the city of Dubrovnik, and to close the entire complex, which is planned by the urban plan of the organization of Georgia, and thus to be completed in Dubrovnik within the framework and in the area managed by the port administration of the entire infrastructure needed for the further development of the port of Greece. [[You don't understand.]] As Mr. Secretary of State said, this investment in the construction and construction of the Greek port in Dubrovnik is only one of the investments that the Republic of Croatia is carrying out in all Croatian ports of national importance, so all 6 ports of national importance in the Republic of Croatia are currently carrying out large investment infrastructure works, whose total value is somewhere around 527m euros, some are in full completion phase, such as this one, and some are at the beginning, but in any case, for all State ports the funds have already been provided for the execution of these works. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia estimates with full right that the ports in the Republic of Croatia are the drivers of the Croatian economy, because according to one study that was done, one kuna, one euro, one dollar that comes into the port system of the Croatian economy, all users of this segment of services in the ports on that one kuna, one euro, or one dollar achieves another multiplier factor of 15 to 20 euros, depending on which traffic is, therefore, whether it is a passenger, whether it is in continental traffic, whether it is on traffic of scattered burdens, etc., etc., but in any case, what is important for the emphasis on one kuna that passes through the port system, all the participants in that port system generate incomes from 15 to 20 times. Therefore, it is clearly fully justified to invest in the port system, so it is clear that it is also in this investment, hence the addition and expansion of the port of Greece. When in 2003, I think it is very important to mention a study of the justification of the construction and reconstruction of the port of Greece, then according to certain studies and indicators it is envisaged that the transport of millions of passengers to Dubrovnik's port is being carried out in 2011 or 2012, but thanks to the investments that are taking place in the Dubrovnik area and certainly also to Dubrovnik airport, as well as to the Greek port of the million passengers that took place in Dubrovnik in 2008, so 3 years before the study itself, which pointed to the justification of such investments, showed that as many as 3 to 4 years before the estimated number of passengers, that it really took place in Dubrovnik's port. The very investment for which this contract is signed is about 8m euros and I believe that it will be practical and begin its construction and realization very quickly to make the entire port infrastructure at Dubrovnik port even better. However, the construction of port infrastructure, the construction of coasts and waterfronts in the Greek port is only a small part of the project that needs to be implemented. After the whole project has been completed, the port administration, together with the city of Dubrovnik, should enter the second phase, which is the adoption of an urban plan of the arrangement and the basis of which the port administration will be able to call for a concession to build all planned facilities of the port substructure at the port of Dubrovnik. I expect that it will be very soon, I think that the urban plan of the arrangement of Greece, Georgia at the final stage of the city council of Dubrovnik and that it should then go into realisation, because until all the facilities planned under this urban plan are built, there will be no fully justified large investment somewhere around 250 million kuna, as long as it will eventually be invested in the port infrastructure at the port of Dubrovnik. After 15 days in the Croatian Parliament we are discussing two almost identical projects. The first project was already mentioned 15 days ago by the Croatian Parliament also adopted an agreement on the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the construction of a similar facility at the port of Šibenik, and I said already beside these two ports, which are mostly passenger large funds are being invested in the port of Rijeka, in the so-called so-called port of Rijeka. River... a project that costs about 120 million kuna, then in the port of Gazenica, in the port of Split, and in the port of Ploče. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, it is clear that the Republic of Croatia rightly implements these investments in the port system, because, as I said in part of passenger transport, and in the part of the transport of general burdens, scattered burdens, continental transport, all these investments are highly justified, so that we in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community support this project, and we clearly expect that it is realised as soon as possible so that after that, we can start building all those objects of the superstructure that enable employment, growth of the economy, etc., etc. So here is clear that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62803	Thank you. We have an individual discussion, distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I am pleased to conclude that today is on the agenda before us of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty of Amendments and Supplements to the first Guarantee Treaty of 1 February 2005 between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, or it is simpler to say about the loan of the port administration of Dubrovnik, which will ensure the continuation of the project of the realisation of the infrastructure at the port of Gruž, under the bridge of Dr. Franjo Tuđmana, a continuation of Batakovina, the area of Batakovina, which is significant in order to complete the infrastructure for the port of Gruž in order to ensure a smooth transport for Elafite, but also the possibility of, of course, anchoring additional cruises on that part, that is, joining the coast. What is important to say is that this is one of the main projects that will ultimately mean and already means, we can say freely, means the extension of the tourist season. And what is in mind for all tourist workers when they talk about tourism is, above all, the desire to extend the tourist season as soon as possible and as much as possible, and in the particular case of Dubrovnik here we can freely tell the information that is extremely important to all tourist employees, except for the fact that the Secretary of State, Mr Babic, told Dubrovnik today that several thousand guests are present today, regardless of the season, are the main ones behind us. We can freely say that here is that the last cruise in this year will land in Dubrovnik on December 27th, so by the end of the year, and that the first in the following year will be January 3rd. So we can freely conclude that there is no pause actually in the arrival of tourists in Dubrovnik and that in this way the realization of this project is already freely said that in Dubrovnik the tourist season is actually extending throughout the year, which is extremely, extremely important. Already here is a colleague, Bačić, on behalf of the club, said how much the Croatian Government, or the Croatian Government, cares about ports. So I dare say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has invested more funds over the last few years than it has invested in infrastructure in the last century when we talk about islands and ports. It is absolutely certain that, here after Austro-Hungarian these are actually the most significant projects for Croatia that have been made and I can say here that I am happy and satisfied, especially that another major project is happening in our county which is also mentioned, it is investing in Luka Ploče, in a container terminal that is already opened and in a terminal for scattered burdens which are indeed a significant investment in economic terms for development and Dubrovnik County, but of course also for the whole of Croatia and for the region. For BiH in particular, this port will have a significant impact on the development of the economy. And in this sense it is quite clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognises the priorities and interests and economies, but in general all flows that occur in Dubrovnik-Neretva County and of course throughout Croatia. The total value of this loan is 34.5m euros, as already said. So 34.5 million euros. About 250 million kunas somewhere. And in particular this part of the allowance is worth 8m euros. What is important here is that today this bill is already being adopted in an urgent procedure so that it can really go into the realization of this project that is extremely, extremely important for the city of Dubrovnik and, as I have already said, for all economic flows. Also, I want to highlight what is already said, but once again, it is not an excuse that this precondition for building infrastructure is a prerequisite for starting a project to build a superstructure that will really bring new contents to the city of Dubrovnik, the port of Gruz and that will mean additional employment of people, which will mean one new generator of development of the city of Dubrovnik and the whole region itself. And of course what is extremely important in this part of the cruise business except, as Captain Babic has already said, the fact is that Dubrovnik is the third port in the Mediterranean by passengers with cruise ships, with cruises, with circular travel and the ninth in the world. I personally think that Dubrovnik is the number one port in attractiveness and that it will certainly follow this second result when the whole superstructure is completed that Dubrovnik can become the first port in the Mediterranean with this port capacity that will be able to receive such a large number and of course along with those anchors that are near Lokrum. In this way we will certainly ensure greater availability of the city of Dubrovnik. And ultimately, it is quite certain that this project also means this year, the recession year, means a clear sign that concrete investment is actually helping and getting out of the crisis, it is also helping the construction operation, and in this way we have a multifactor of multiplication of all the funds invested in the city of Dubrovnik itself and in the port itself. So here is my proposal, of course, and I expect everyone to support this bill because it really means a lot for Dubrovnik City itself and for Dubrovnik-Neretva County and for, as I have already said, the whole region. Everyone will benefit from this, especially the citizens of Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62805	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62806	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think, Mr. Matusic, that I can, of course, agree with you in today's presentation and on Dubrovnik's attractiveness and on the potential of Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik-Neretva County and on the increased number of nights and many things you've actually mentioned. Also about the importance of the port in Georgia for the development of tourism, i.e. for the development of the economy and our region, i.e. the Republic of Croatia. We also know it's a port, he mentioned Mr. Bacic, that the port is a driver of the economy and that's true. However, we know that, this would actually take the opportunity now, so I would ask you, since you and Mr. Bacic are both from the Dubrovnik-Neretva County area, then I would ask you why you are to join the Trade Court, i.e. because you already said that the port is a driver of the Croatian economy, that the Croatian economy should, of course, be the trade court as accessible as possible, I would now take the opportunity here to now say that
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62807	Honorable MPs, but that's not even mentioned, nor is it a subject. Don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62808	Well, I think, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62809	You can't put that on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62810	Mr. Vice President, I think it's
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62811	It's a completely different discussion and don't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62812	But I think it's a very close topic that it would even be possible to expand the activity of the Dubrovnik Commercial Court into this area that solves disputes concerning ships, not connect it with the Split Commercial Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62813	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to answer this question right now that wasn't the subject of my debate, but I'm very happy to answer it. The Dubrovnik trade court will continue to operate. So none of the services that the Dubrovniks have in the trade court today will be abolished. All that they could do at Dubrovnik Commercial Court if we adopt and when we adopt the law before us on the merger of courts it is a technical law, it will be a permanent service and it is quite clear that the minister said both in Dubrovnik and here in front of us, that no service that the Dubrovniks today can realise in a commercial court will be abolished and that they will be able to realize the same in the event of a possible merger. So everything will remain the same for the citizens of Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62815	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62816	But as far as the cruisers are concerned, I just want to say one more fact that is extremely important. Dubrovnik today can and already becomes a home port so it becomes a port of motherboarding, landing passengers which is extremely important. We've had this situation a few years ago. Unfortunately, because of the inconclusive nature of a hoteler who signed a contract with Aida company, it came to the conclusion that the company broke the contract that Dubrovnik is home port. But it's a different and long story. But it's extremely important today that Dubrovnik becomes home port again, which means increased traffic at the airport and up to 30 planes a day only to charge one board, not to mention what a benefit it is for the city of Dubrovnik itself. And plus the fact that cruisers always require 5-star hotels when they go to the destination because ships also have a 5-star hotel section, which also counts on the destination, which means that these passengers stay and come before the round trip and stay behind. So, the multi-applicative factor absolutely for Dubrovnik and in this sense there is no doubt that this is an extremely important project that the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognized and which leads to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62817	Thank you very much. And five minutes on behalf of the club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62818	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the club that's partying? HDSSB, I would ask you to say the name of our party another time, because it is a parliamentary party and has its own club. So we have witnessed a series of agreements on amendments and additions to the guarantee contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I can say in English the name of that bank, so the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, unlike some. So, 15 days ago, it was all the same and similar contract regarding Luke Sibenik, now this contract is about Luke in Gruž, Dubrovnik port. Tomorrow it will seem to me that Mr. Matušić announced Luka Ploče. It's already been, here's the real show. At the same time a few days after the adoption, because I voted for Luka Sibenik, too, was the second time the opening of works in the river port of Batin, carried out by the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia without the invitation of the County of Osijek-Baranja, who invested considerable funds in Luka Batina in the Danube. I again call from this speaker that the economy should be developed on the continental part. That I am satisfied with the possibilities of signing and extending the contract and amending and supplementing that provides 250 million kuna or 31.7m euros for the construction of our southern Luke of Dubrovnik. ...is the last southernmost, but about that second chance. So also with Luka Sibenik, also with Luka Ploče, which is in some ways a significant international port given its geographical position. But I need to speak again from this pay phone about the port of Brod and about the port of Vukovar and about the port of Osijek, so on Drava, Danube and Savi, but unfortunately that stands. I know it will be there on the other side of the Slavonian correction of incorrect allegations, but when the funds invested in these ports are looked at, therefore, at the river ports in relation to the loans that we will all return, all our taxpayers for construction, modernisation and final completion of both Luke Dubrovnik and Luke Ploče and all others that the funds are minor or these funds are large in relation to investments in river ports which also mean for Slavonia, Baranja and Srem as they mean for the development of the economy in these areas in which they are now invested through the European Bank's loan for renovation and development. Unfortunately, here, the majority of the lobbyists of certain regions and regions are significantly more successful than the HDZ lobbyists who come from Slavonia and Baranja or have no regrets at all, succeed through the Treaty of the Republic of Croatia, which they have also imposed their opinions and demands on, and here Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja are lagging behind and, in that sense, for the rest of the Republic of Croatia, even though they should be and should swear or swear to the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Nevertheless, because we love our Dalmatia, we love our Dubrovnik, we will vote in favour of this proposal as a HDSSB club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62819	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First is Honorable Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62820	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, it is an incorrect assumption that Mr Grubisic said to say unfortunately in the ports, so he cited Slavonski Brod and Osijek, Vukovar, not to invest enough in building infrastructure in those ports. I must say, that quote is incorrect. At this very moment, activities are being carried out in all ports in the inner waters, so both in Slavonski Brod and in Osijek and in Sisak and Vukovar in the construction of port infrastructure in those ports. But since these ports on the rivers that were devastated as waterways during the war, the primary prerequisite for the reconstruction of these ports is the reconstruction of the waterway. At this moment, together with neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia, activities are being carried out on the reconstruction of the Sava River waterway, which is a river waterway and whose arrangement is a prerequisite for both Sisak and Slavonski Brod as river ports.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62821	Thank you very much. And another correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to correct you because the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia will not repay this loan, because this loan returns the Port Authority and just out of business. This is one of those projects that will actually, as soon as they are realised, immediately bring about the profit, i.e. the return of that money, in fact, will not have to be activated by the guarantee that the state gave in this case because actually the Port Authority of Dubrovnik is regularly returning credit rates after that first part of 2005. And the beginning was three years old, which means it's been since 2008. The Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Port Authority, is paying regular loans and will also be in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62823	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when they get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62824	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements No 1. The guarantee agreement of 1 February 2005 between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 636. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Treaty of Amendments and Supplements No 1. Treaty on the guarantee of 1 February 2005 between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final proposal for a law confirming the contract was adopted by the majority of votes, 103 votes to, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62825	We move to the third item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Environmental Production and Labelling Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 637. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Environment Protection and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Stjepan Mikolčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62826	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is another one in a series of our laws that we are harmonising with the acquis of the European Union. The current organic production law of agricultural and food products was adopted in 2001 but suffered certain amendments and additions in 2007 aimed at harmonising with Council Regulation (EEC) No 2092, '91. Under this Act, 10 implementing rules or regulations have been adopted. The adoption of a new organic production and labelling law is necessary, taking into account the fact that on 28 June 2007 the Regulation of the EC Council entered into force. 834 of 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products which started in 1.1.2009 and which was repealed by the regulation that I mentioned earlier. Since the adoption of the organic production law of agricultural food products, the interest in organic production has been a significant increase. This is confirmed by the figures on the increase of the area in organic agriculture from 51 ha 2002 to 14193 ha by the end of 2009 and by a total of 817 producers. The share of areas in organic production compared to the total farmland in the Republic of Croatia is relatively small 1.29%. But we expect by the end of the year that the number of agricultural areas in organic production is somewhere at 20,000 ha and that the number of producers dealing with this production reaches 1000. The aim of organic agriculture is to produce high-quality food to help preserve human health, preserve human health, preserve the environment, and maintain and increase soil fertility. Environmental agriculture involves the maximum use of renewable energy sources, the maintenance of biodiversity, eco-systems and environmental protection, and the reduction of all forms of pollution that can result from agricultural production. It is known, of course, that there is great competition in the Croatian and international markets for the placement of food products, but we know that today's consumers are educated and know what they want and are willing to pay for higher quality and higher price. In this fight for competitiveness, more and more prices of organic products, i.e. products that are characterized by special quality and bear the organic product label. By buying such a product that bear consumer labels indirectly affect the protection and conservation of the environment. The safety and quality of food is a basic prerequisite for winning not only the domestic market but also for the global world, which is produced by the system of consumer certification control to provide safety and confidence in the overall system of production. Genetically modified organisms and products derived from or using genetically modified organisms are not in conformity with the concept of organic production and cannot be accepted as such. They are therefore prohibited in organic production. This law makes it clearer to define the objectives, principles and rules of production in the cultivation of plants, animals, aqua culture, and rules for the collection of single plants, mushrooms and rules for the production of processed food, including wine and food for animals. Furthermore, clearly defined rules on labelling, about the control system, or rules in administrative and inspection control are defined. The law allows flexibility in terms of the application of production rules to adapt environmental standards to local, climate and geographical conditions, in particular when it comes to agricultural practice and levels of development. In order to protect consumers and fair competition, the concepts of organic, biological, ecological, and their abbreviations have been banned from marking, presenting and commercial documents for products not implemented in accordance with this Act. The adoption of a new Environmental Production and Labelling Act creates a basis for the sustainable development of organic production, ensuring the efficient functioning of the market, protecting competition, ensuring consumer confidence and protecting consumer interests. The provisions of this law allow manufacturers in the Republic of Croatia to have the same production conditions that producers in the countries of the European Union have. In addition, conditions are provided for the protection of the interest and trust of consumers through clear and detailed provisions on the labelling of organic products. And finally let me say that this law that we are harmonising with the acquis of the European Union is as foreseen in the government's 2010 programme, so we propose that it be adopted by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62827	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Then I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the club, the first is the discussion by the clubs, on behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62828	Thank you, Vice President. The SDP Club will support the adoption of this law, as this document is certainly a step forward in terms of regulating the area of organic or organic food production, labelling and control, and facilitating the placement of our eco-products on the European Union market. The real and consistent implementation of this law will certainly protect Croatian consumers and consumers to a greater extent, from buying often very expensive products bearing an eco, bio or organic label, but whose content does not correspond to the label. What concerns us in the SDP is the shamefully small share of organic food production in the total agricultural production of Croatia. I remind you in Croatia we have only 1.29% of agricultural areas that have organic production. It's a whole series of reasons, and it's not true that the government and the resolution ministry can't change that situation. A little later, I'll also say how positive changes can be made in this regard. After a potential health threat that represents foods containing GMOs, after fruits and vegetables seasoned with pesticides and herbicides, after cow's madness, foot-and-mouth disease, fish full of dioxins, salmonella and Trichinella, everyone justifiably wonders what we can say, or which food today is not unhealthy. Given the uncertainty of the answer, people come down to their shoulders and eat what's on their desk. Such a defetistic attitude stems from the belief that the environment is wrongly contaminated, and that the only remaining human population is to adapt to a new state, i.e. to develop defence mechanisms according to the harmful factors that we bring into the body daily through food, water and air. In doing so, we often comfort ourselves with that thought of Nitche that cannot destroy me, only it can strengthen me. However, this situation is by no means a stimulating environment for the introduction of practices that would result in organic food production, a healthy food containing true quality ingredients. And the fact is that the introduction of such practice is necessary, because the adjustment theory for which year can be very easily transformed into a cataclysmic scenario that will not allow for the possibility of adaptation, for the simple reason that there will be no time for adaptation. I guess that's what world leaders have become, and in 2004, they've put out a food safety strategy, which tries to solve the basic issue of food safety, that is, how effectively manage all the factors in the food system, from food production to food consumption. Food safety includes supply insurance, food availability, etc. food security, and safety of food quality, so-called Food safety. Since Croatia belongs to that group of countries in which food shortages and hunger do not exist among the population, we, like other developing world countries, are plagued by the very issue of food security, i.e. its nutritional quality and health quality. Food safety, in other words, deals with the question of what makes a food unhealthy. In 2004, the European Union published a food safety strategy titled farm to fork. The strategy deals with the problem of a cycle that starts with food production and ends with food consumption, precisely because the food route is usually very long and spacious and time-consuming. The European Food Safety Strategy includes four main areas, regulation of food safety for humans and animals, concrete actions in implementing regulation and control of the process, public and scientific assessment, and recognition of consumer choice rights, i.e. the right to information on where food comes from and what it contains and is mandatory for all Member States of the European Union. Although this strategy does not prescribe the production of so-called production. ecological or organic food, and the greatest skeptics will have to admit that, given the development of the global environmental situation, the future will belong precisely to organic agriculture. It is often referred to as biological or organic agriculture in the public media, and in relaxed coffee talks, it is referred to as the agriculture of tomorrow. Participants in such conversations or journalists or experts who speak or write about organic agriculture will almost never speak against such practices. It could therefore be concluded that in Croatia, professional, media and political and general public there is a general consensus that organic agriculture is a strategic economic branch that is necessary to develop, even as many of us as possible, we politicians and politicians declare Croatia's economic development precisely on organic agriculture and so on. ecological tourism, but when it goes a little further from such a principled attitude, it is evident that even intellectual circles, and even fewer political elites have no idea what organic agriculture is and what its basic principles are. Environmental agriculture is often marred by the traditional production of our old ones, just as eco tourism is often marred with rural tourism. In a public relations dictionary, the focus of a group of Croatian subjects is defined by the following terms: healthy food, natural fertilisers, against GMOs, no pesticides, no fertilisers. The fact is that all of the above terms are characteristic of organic agriculture, but it is forgotten by the hollies of ethics, environmental protection, social equality and justice, and economic viability which are the dominant characteristics of the practice of organic agriculture, and it seems to me that in Croatian organic agriculture it is justified to apply the maximum of the French thinker... Who, speaking of love, said true love is like the appearance of ghosts, everyone talks about them, but few people have seen them. [[You don't understand.]] In a certain sense, this approach to organic production is visible from this bill. And we really talk a lot about organic agriculture, but there's little that's known and even less practiced. It is unfortunate to take into account all the comparative advantages that Croatia has in terms of developing such an economic activity, relatively well preserved environment, soil quality, water and air quality, indigenous quality agricultural cultures, orientation to tourism and private capacity of the domestic and foreign market. There is no need to interfere with the mind or intellectual potential of Croatian specialists specialized in this particular area. Namely, the first master of organic agriculture in Europe is Croatian expert Darko Znaor, who is also the author of the book "Ecological Agriculture". From the above, it is obvious that organic agriculture is crucial for the implementation of the policy guidelines for sustainable development of Croatia, but organic agriculture does not need to be automatically identified with sustainable agriculture, as the term sustainable agriculture is unfortunately misused in terms of those economic practices which do not satisfy the abovementioned holistic principles. Unfortunately, despite our potential for the development of organic agriculture, we are at the very beginning of European countries that use such agricultural production. Although tourism offers us particularly eco tourism opportunities for good placement and distribution of organic products, as well as the promotion of so on. internal exports, the fact is that in organic agricultural production we are well preceded by Slovenia and Serbia and Macedonia, which do not have our potential to distribute products. All this points to the lack of an institutional framework that would launch ecological agriculture among strategic economic branches. In other words, the development of organic agriculture in Croatia is left to environmental enthusiasts and associations. Although organic agriculture in an economically promotional Europe is a trend in us, it is limited to a whole series of institutional and non-institutional barriers such as a boycott of organic products by large trade chains, insufficient information from manufacturers and consumers, insufficient state subsidies, insufficient number of experts on the ground, lack of linkage of production, distribution and sales of organic food supply. Croatia provides subsidies for organic agriculture, but it is also a fact that organic food producers are not doing well in the placement of their products. It is therefore necessary to implement the instruments provided for in the purchase of such products, i.e. their distribution into domestic tourist centres that have been identified for the development of ecological tourism. But this involves the existence of an organized system which is not a feature of our state interventionism. That's why we're in desperate need of a network of so-called networks. "Green Kinos", and representatives of the government and the resolution ministry assure us that the issue will also be regulated by sublegal acts. Unfortunately, I find it insufficient to think about yet another huge potential to increase organic production, which is a huge agricultural area in state-owned property that can be managed more wisely and sustainablely. How? Thus, the State shall examine on which agricultural areas it owns possible organic food production and, when awarding concessions on those land, make it a criterion to apply such production precisely. Instead of volunteering and volunteering in the field of organic agriculture as a strategic branch of the development of the Republic of Croatia, the elements of national interventionism should be introduced and, therefore, in a much shorter period than the shameful 1.3% of eco-ecopoly-economic areas would have a 10% of such surfaces for sure. In the SDP club, we also believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should make a strategy of such production with a specific map of Croatia where such production is possible and where the state is willing to support such production through more favourable terms of lease or concession, different types of subsidies and the like. As long as we don't have such elaborate measures, we'll have this embarrassing situation, and the organic farming will still be like that Rochefucauld wing, everyone's talking about it, but nobody knows it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62829	Just slow and careful, please. Thank you very much. It's time for the HSN-HSU club, the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I'm going to say that the HNS-HSU club will support this bill. The basis of the so far applicable organic production law of agricultural and food products was Regulation 2092/91, which was put out of force. It is therefore necessary to adopt a new Act on organic production and labelling of organic products in order to further align the organic production system. And there he is, he's here today on our benches. Croatia is, by the amount of organically produced food at the bottom of the scales of the countries of Europe, worse than we, for example, Albania. But it has to be said that the interest in organic production has grown significantly since the adoption of the Law on organic production of agricultural and food products from 2001. This information confirms the numbers of the increase in organic farming area from 51 hectares from 2002 to 14 thousand 193 hectares in 2009. And we record 817 organic food producers in total. The share of surfaces in organic production relative to total working surfaces in the Republic of Croatia is only 1.29%, the possibilities are far higher and really should be set at least 10%. The aim of organic agriculture is to produce high-quality foods to help preserve human health, preserve the environment, and maintain and increase the fertility of land. Under ecological, organic or biological agriculture in the general public, it is mainly thought of producing so-called "the organic or organic farming" in the general public. "Healthy Foods" i.e. on agricultural production without the use of agrochemicals, i.e. mineral fertilisers, pesticides, hormones, etc. Although most famous, this is just one of the characteristics of such production. Environmental agriculture is a concept of agricultural production which is much more complex and whose essence is not only in the abandonment of agrochemicals but in the overall economy that can achieve this. Environmental agricultural production aims to make maximum use of the potential of a particular ecosystem, i.e. the economy by stimulating, strengthening and harmonising the biological processes of certain parts of it. The idea of economics is a mixed-type economy with plant and livestock production, which is organised in a way that represents a harmonic whole that meets most of the needs of its own sources and minimalises imports. the entry of the same outside the economy itself. The purpose of organic agriculture is not to deny and reject the positive achievements of conventional agriculture but rather to find environmentally acceptable solutions where necessary and possible. Environmental agriculture is also not a return to the old, a return to the agriculture of our grandparents. On the contrary, organic agriculture is part of modern agricultural production, trade and agronomic science and is precisely based on its latest knowledge and achievements. The organic production of agricultural and food products is defined as a special system of sustainable management in agriculture and forestry, which includes the cultivation of plants and animals, food production, raw materials and natural fibres and the processing of primary products, and includes all ecological, economic and socially justified production and technology methods, procedures and systems most favourablely using soil fertility and available water, natural properties of plants, animals and landscapes, increasing the yield and resilience of plants by means of natural forces and laws with the prescribed use of fertilisers for plant protection and animal products in accordance with internationally adopted norms and principles. In organic production, the manufacturer is a legal or natural person who processes, process or trades organic products and is entered in the register of producers in the organic production of agricultural and food products. The organic product shall be produced and labelled in accordance with the provisions of the organic production law of agricultural and food regulations and products adopted on the basis of it. The organic production shall be subject to expert supervision carried out by an authorised monitoring station for organic production. After carrying out mandatory expert surveillance of organic production and the minutes issued on the professional supervision carried out by a legal person for the implementation of the certification procedure, the certificate shall be issued. A certificate or certificate shall be a document authorising the legal person to carry out the certification procedure in organic production confirming that organic production and services on the production unit in organic production comply with the prescribed basic requirements for organic production. The organic product shall have a final product in organic production with the prescribed declaration and shall be issued at the request of the manufacturer and shall be determined by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy after the procedure has been carried out. Manufacture of biological, eco or so-called organic food is one of the most profitable jobs in the world. Often under eco food is placed both name and healthy food, but it is actually incorrect because every food in our shops must be healthy whether it is eco food or not. What difference does organic production make from conventional methods? Environmental production requires more knowledge than conventional because it does not have the means of rapid action, i.e. is not based on simple recipes and the relationship of the symptom and the treatment goes, but on the knowledge of the agro-eco system mechanisms. Its base is soil because it manages with the sustainability of agriculture and quality of the environment, controls nutrients in the food chain, organic production increases organic content and biological activity of the soil, and the diet is based on biodetermined nutrients. What do we get by the ecological way of producing food? Here we have a four-year study showing, as the most important result of the study, scientists single out the fact that, in organic fruit and vegetables, they have found up to 40% more antioxidants and important minerals such as iron and zinc. In particular, green salad, spinach and cabbage stand out here. Organically produced kiwis, potatoes and carrots have a significantly higher proportion of vitamin C compared to conventional production. The study also found that milk from cows fed by organic cattle contains up to 60% more antioxidants and significantly more vitamin E levels. Antioxidants have been increasingly referred to in recent years as substances that reduce the risk of cancer and heart disease. And final. Croatia has a very good potential for eco-food. Quality less polluted land compared to European countries. But we lack organised education, adequate state aid and an organised market so that we can safely place and sell this farmed food. The bill says that the state budget will provide 30 thousand kuna. I thought I didn't see too well, but again, that's what the bill says. 30 thousand kuna a year starting in 2011. Mr. Secretary of State, I'd like to know what you're going to spend... on what you're going to spend those great 30,000 kunas you predicted under this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62831	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62832	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the HDZ club that will support this bill, because this is one of the legal proposals that allow manufacturers in the Republic of Croatia to have the same production conditions that producers in EU countries have, but also provides conditions for protecting the interests and trust of consumers through clear and detailed provisions on the labelling of organic products. Furthermore, this proposal ensures that the future obligations of the Republic of Croatia are met and that the conditions for the placing of organic products on the EU market are met, which we at the HDZ Club are very important. I want only in the introduction to highlight the goals of organic production, which is the production of high-quality food primarily due to human health, as well as the preservation of the environment and the increase of the fertility of agricultural land. Environmental agriculture includes the maximum use of renewable energy sources, maintaining the biodiversity of eco-systems and environmental protection. And on this you will agree to build many branches of the economy as well as the overall development of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, this organic production will reduce many forms of pollution that can result from classical agricultural production. Here we see a significant space for the competitiveness of our products and for the sake of clean soil, still clean water and land. I hold the need for a prominent fact that despite the great competition for food placement today, consumers are well aware of what they want and are willing to pay for higher quality and higher price, but they must have a guarantee that this product is just that. And today, they are hard to identify on the global market and are poorly identified among the many products offered. The safety and quality of food is a basic prerequisite for winning not only the domestic but also the global market, and this is also achieved by good legislation, of course through a system of control and certification, which includes this proposal. Therefore, this Bill clearly defines the objectives, principles and rules of production both in the cultivation of plants, animal farming, aqua culture and seaweed, but also includes rules for the collection of self-inherited plants, mushrooms and rules for the production of processed food, including wine and food for animals. I will remind you that although the secretary of state has stated here that GMOs are derived from or through them, means banned in organic production, and reminding that most of our counties have declared their areas of GMOs free, so that no cultivation is allowed in many counties. Therefore, the basic issues to be covered by this proposal are scope and definition. So, through a number of definitions in this introductory section, all the terms that cover organic production are well defined. Further, the principles and objectives of organic production, production rules in plant production, livestock farming and aqua cultural production. Furthermore, production rules for processed products, seaweeds and yeasts, the keeping of registers and the establishment of an expert commission for organic production, the labelling of organic products that I keep very important in the first place in order to protect consumers, but also to ensure the sustainability of quality products on the market and our and our sides, the system of controls in organic production, imports from third countries and administrative and inspection controls. The key factors of the organic plant management system are therefore soil fertility management, species selection and variety selection, multiannual fertility, organic material recycling and the correct selection of agro technical measures. Efforts and soil enhancers from plant protection products may only be used if they comply with the ecological production objectives and principles, organic farming animals are essential for the organisation of agricultural production on organic holdings, and organic animal farming should be subject to high standards for animal welfare. First of all, it's about health. But here's the breeding practice and the number of animals per unit of surface. Since the Secretary of State has provided information for the Republic of Croatia, I will try to see, for example, Zadar County how much more space there is to increase this ecological production. The agricultural areas of Zadar County are 231.7 thousand hectares. The structure consists of ores and gardens 45.8 ha, permanent plantations 11.2% but pastures extremely significant 162.7 ha, meadow 11.9. The ownership structure is 93% are private areas, 7% state property. And the used agricultural land is 21,000 ha. So the very small number is still being used, the big space to use. And here I will point out that a large number of hectares are still Zadar County under mines so that it has excellent predispositions to it mined. So contaminated with mines, unpolluted with everything else with pesticides and all the rest are surfaces that can be used precisely for this organic production. The register includes 7106 OPG, of which the cooperative and trade crafts are 119. In the OPGs and crafts and cooperatives under fruit growing is 978 ha, under olive groves 3636 ha, under vineyards 1571 ha. Products in Zadar County mean 40,000 tonnes of vegetables, 8,000 tonnes of fruit, 500 tonnes of grapes, 5000 tonnes of olives, 12000 tonnes of wine grapes. As for organic production in Zadar County, we have a register of organic producers registered 47 producers and under that production is 833 ha. And the trend of growth has been significantly accelerated over the last few years. So here I will remind you that the first organic olive oil was produced right in the Zadar County area at the Jeanper estate on Long Island in 2004. As for olive growing in the county, we have 10 organic products produced on the surface of 46.6 ha, and I will mention more importantly the Agricultural Cooperative "Masslina" and the wine from Sinj to 34.7 ha, "Jurjević" on Silba with 5.3 ha and the agricultural cooperative Drobnica 2 ha from Preka that produces means ecological oil on Preka. We also have the first ecological wines from the fields of Nadine, Vrsaljko and Skaulj. So these are exclusively grape organic products. Of the other organic production in the Zadar County I have the need to highlight and produce, the organic production of the feed plant where 5 million litres of milk are produced in the pastures of 490 ha. It's Wigenz Farm. It is extremely important, quality production and it is in the trend of growth. The medicinal plants are produced in this ecological way in 10 ha and other fruit species. We have a new one, new ones are being introduced, they're being restored to essentially figs, blackberries at 2.7 ha. We also have goats in livestock farming, but we also have hives, we have chickens in organic farming, and vegetables are grown at only 1 ha. Here is the perspective of organic production is essentially quiet exports or tourism consumption that our producers must not only recognize but also exploit. So, in a financial sense, too. I said at the beginning that consumers recognise and appreciate such a product, and the success of organic production is not only measured by colleagues and colleagues, tones and kilograms produced but also by contributing to the conservation of the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia. It means ground and water and air. First it's measurable and second it's invaluable. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62833	Thank you. And the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62834	I apologize, Mr. Vice President, for the delay in coming here from the bench. It's a long way up to me, and I broke my leg. Also, Zvonko Busic just called me, so I couldn't avoid that phone call, since from one honorable man I had a phone call, the real Croatian man did, but that's not the topic of this debate either. Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and fellow MPs, here we have before us a proposal for a Law on organic production and labelling of organic products with a final bill of law that goes according to an urgent procedure. They say in Slavonia what no worm, no good to man, and today we buy apples in chains of foreign and domestic stores where there is absolutely no guarantee of worms. Secondly, it is said here from this pay phone that farmers usually consider traditional production to be organic production. It is true that it would all be defined as how my distinguished colleague, Mirela Holly, defined it, that it is not entirely consistent, but it is quite close, therefore we cannot strictly share organic production and separate it from that of our traditional to say Slavonic, baranja or sremic production of agricultural products. To talk about organic production while 2% of the area of the Republic of Croatia is below mines or 9 hundred square kilometers of which the vast majority of these square kilometers are in Slavonia and Baranja, therefore in a fertile therefore for agriculture suitable terrain, is a little bit already to say degutantly because we predicted that Croatia would be demined by 2019, and at the rate that is demining every year, which is 30 square kilometers, it will be until 2049, and not until 2019. Furthermore, talk about organic production and labelling of organic products at a time when Croatia has done so much for the past 20 years that only 1.2% of agricultural areas are under organic production, and when it is irrigated in the Republic of Croatia less than 5% of agricultural areas, it is also illusory. I believe that the agricultural chamber, which has united all those seed shelters, and I don't know what either, will work on it regardless of these factors that I have said, and especially the president of the agricultural chamber who has reported 4 hundred acres of organic production, for which the incentive per hectare is significantly greater than the monetaryally larger Mr. Secretary of State, you can also help me with how much it amounts, say about 5,000 kuna, so environmental production, so 400 acres times 5,000 kuna, that's 2 million kuna a year. You are saying that this law follows the regulation of the European Union directive, etc., but I'm afraid that it has something to do with it, what he just said has something to do with the urgency of this process, the adoption of this bill. Environmental, biological or organic production of agricultural products is clear that it can be linked and related to ecological tourism, which should finally be the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. This, in all documents of the ruling or Government of the Republic of Croatia, should indeed be highlighted, and put among the priorities, unfortunately according to these indicators that I have said that only 2% of the surface area of the Republic of Croatia is organically produced, that it would only address enthusiasts, and some associations, here's the County of Zadar says before me that there are 47 of all producers of organic products, and the potentials of the Republic of Croatia, the potentials of our agricultural producers, are therefore significantly, significantly higher. Organic production, therefore, and with organic tags of agricultural products are at a price at a time when we think and when we speak or suspect... in the sky and the presence of poison not only from pesticides and plant protection products and others, then food products, cattle, animals for breeding, but here is the mention and loud whispers not only from... [[You don't understand.]] in our sky. [[You don't understand.]] Is that who checked and how this will affect and whether it has doubts that this will affect our organic production, I do not know, but in any case, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should show interest in these facts that have not yet been checked. Someone mentioned here various diseases that occurred, and phenomena, phenomena that occurred from salmonella, trihinella, spiralis, swine fever, bird fever, swine fever, etc., and it seems that, in fact, many of them are the fruit or work of certain interests, certain pharmaceutical circles that may be in the first place today in the interest of obtaining financial benefits from a variety of these real or imaginary diseases, or at least thoroughly suspected of the existence of some of these phenomena that have applied to us. Let's remember the bird flu and the entry into the henhouse, the drowning in astronaut scuffanders, etc., our ministers and others, let's remember only 10,000 spent doses of swine flu vaccines, etc., and of the millions and a half imported, and paid for it. So it is true that Croatia has good conditions for organic production, it is true that it does not take too much education, too much education, so it is not necessary to invest too much in the education of our agricultural producers in organic production, they know it quite long ago, because I say that our traditional way of agricultural production is quite a match, I say quite a bit, but not in all, therefore, with what is now called organic or biological or organic production in the world today. Now, I'm told the wine liner with the nettles, so the solution into which the nettles are inserted. So it's one of these old things. You see, we don't have to look around the world for how it can be protected by vines or any other fruit, but here's how our tradition has its own knowledge that should only be restored and repeated and put in place by our agricultural producers who want to produce ecologically, therefore, in use. Today, at a time when the chains of our departments offer us a range of products that some say are simple, therefore agricultural products, food for the population, many of which claim to be junk with no taste or smell, for which there are declarations that are stuck on these products, today when we import meat, as the minister said correctly, but nevertheless old, it has not been denied, for more than 10 years here we need to adopt this proposal for an organic production law and labelling of organic products. I believe that Croatia can go on a very short period of time through a significant increase in agricultural areas and livestock that would now be based on organic production. I wish, Mr. Secretary of State, that she'd cared about it before. If we had such a proposal, we had a legal proposal earlier on benches, so that the safety and interest of agricultural producers would also be greater and we would be more advanced when entering the EU in terms of the production of agricultural products, organic and organic clean or organic clean without GMOs and those other substances which such production does not recognise, nor recognises Europe or the world. Both the world and Europe are eager and hungry for such products. And Croatia is indeed, it is rich for this kind of production, so Croatia that has clean water, which has clean say air, land not polluted except for these mines and partially pesticides and has large areas that have not been used, you can see it when you travel from Zagreb to Lipovac, so to the last village in the Republic of Croatia, you can see how much in Slavonia and Srijem abandoned agricultural areas and so that they can be with good administration and I'm telling the administration not to use it just for this purpose. As my colleague before me spoke of areas in Zadar County that are high in Zadar County, given the consequences of the war that were terrible in Zadar County. Given that I have stated that the agricultural chamber and the incentive system in relation to organic production are clearly going to someone and to the hand personally, although I would rather the incentives go to a non-by-surface area which is declared than by origin, and to take into account the basic disasters and the references made by them, it would be much better, it would be much fairer, fairer than this when there are doubts about many of our farmers, farmers, that in fact, the system of incentives for abuse and that many of them gain wealth, and those who have small surfaces, and so does not mean much to them or to them any small aid in the production on small surfaces. The executive authority itself encourages or encourages and does nothing to correct these things. The inspections are insufficient, they are not working well enough, or there are those that are untouchable, and we know here and now big areas are registering for organic production clearly knowing that by entering the EU, this law will have to liven up, clearly it is a directive, a regulation however you want the EU to do. Well, many individuals have already adapted very quickly to the adoption of such a law on the basis of which they will take back what does not belong to them. Since that is, let me say, a prerequisite for joining the EU, we will accept it, but I ask you to work on these things that I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62835	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, the distinguished representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62836	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minorities Club supports the adoption of the Law on organic production and labelling of organic products already because this is a new alignment with the 2007 EU directive, which came into force in 1.01.2009, precisely on some new rules in organic production and organic production. Unfortunately, listening to many of us with some facts, and perhaps as a profession, it's hard to agree, so let me consider a little bit of the law that is very well set up because it will monitor organic production and production itself, but it will also follow it on the market. Namely, very often they are more important controls during production than at the moment when the product comes to the market he should already have a certificate and be sure that it was, eco or organic for what was declared, and not everything that today bears the name eco, was organic. My predecessors in most cases said that Croatia really has enough land to produce organic production, so I'll agree, that we did too little when we say that we have only 15 thousand hectares in organic production or 1.3%. It is very little, so much more when we consider that part of livestock is part of pastures and meadows in these areas, and when we talk about organic production, the majority of Europe still focuses on fruits and vegetables, what is in daily consumption, and it is certainly important to monitor what is happening to us. The soil's unpolluted. We also have demining surfaces, we have areas that haven't been used for a long time, they're certainly clean from pesticides, from the use of mineral fertilisers. After all, the consumption of mineral fertilisers in Croatia has been almost halved for the past ten years. But is that good soil? We have most of these soils that don't have organic substances that lack hummus. Why am I stressing that component? Because producing organic without enough hummus, which doesn't have good physics and chemistry is almost impossible. On the other hand, remember how little Croatia uses organic fertilisers. So, in the absence of organic fertilisers, we don't have quality soil for organic food production, which means it's a complex question that we can't just say. We need to see and this law well stresses that it is very important for the production to be in line with both livestock production and sufficient insurance for organic nutrients. We have a sortiment. Someone here said we have a surface, let's shine. We need to see when it comes to wartime, when it comes to vegetable production. How many of us have preserved old varieties that withstand extensive production, or are we ready to take on the market that sort of sort of sort of thing or that it tolerates extensive production. Because let's not forget a certain genetic potential of high birth that requires high protection, because if it doesn't have hypersensitivity is a product and collapse, which requires high fertilization, which is very often soil that isn't well organic fertiliser that doesn't have good soil physics, meaning structure, texture, water ratio, you won't get it. So I think we need to work on that, too. A colleague here said, "That's why you don't need to know." Our peasant knows that. Let's not kid ourselves. For this production in order to be economically profitable, to produce without pesticides, without fertilisers from sacks or artificial fertilisers, good knowledge and knowledge needs to be achieved in order to achieve such production. And therefore, it is very important that those who have turned around who want to produce them organically should be educated. After all, we must also take care of the workforce. Whether we have enough workforce or on the other hand to produce something that requires a lot of labour if it can sow a hectare of wheat that has good incentives and does not have to work very much. So we also need to strike a balance in promoting such organic production that requires a lot of work, a lot of effort compared to one production that can be produced with 7 hours per hectare of wheat working today in Europe. Hence, such relationships must be very important. And what we forget very often, we're talking about quality organic food here, but we forget to say that this quality is chemically and healthly in the form of number one. So there's a lot of dry matter that I don't list everything there is, looking chemically, but very often visual or looking organoleptic, these aren't tempting products. And that is one reason why they often do not find enough applications on the market, or they do not go well. And I'm sure we have to work on that, too. Because when someone who is not educated starts and not only has to be a producer and the consumption of organic food must be educated to know what that product gets because it pays more. And I say seemingly organoleptic that product is very often unspeakable etc. And he has to pay him 20 to 30% more. So he needs to know what he's paying for, that very often that pretty apple that a colleague here used to say against the worm, that the worm is healthy. It doesn't have to be. She can only be treated at the wrong time. Therefore, it must have this law-defined control behind it, that the controls were produced once more, and that the certificate on that food was indeed an environmental food certificate. I said, and on several occasions, the market is important. Surely the most important thing in all is that this product produced with much more labour, which is more expensive, and we have had the opportunity to hear these days that a kilo of garlic domestically produced in Osijek is sold at 100 kuna, therefore it does not have to be more expensive only 20 to 30% but can be five times more expensive, that we have to be willing to pay it, but we need to know and if we already define where to find it. And that means here was the Cooperative Act yesterday, and we know that for years the Ministry of Agriculture has been instigating various forms of association. On the other hand, there are really small productions, therefore there is a merger of marketing number one and a performance on the market. I would also like to have our big megacentres have the option of choosing what they have in Western countries, having a department organically produced, having a department where products are sold conventionally produced, or having GMO products produced, and who likes to choose either by pocket or by choice you can buy organic, organic or bio food, you can buy conventional if your pocket is thinner or if you don't suffer from prejudice you'll also buy GMOs. Only then will we be able to talk more about it and see how ready the market is to buy organically produced food. It's not safe for the state to organize it itself. I think it depends on the manufacturer, and I think the ministry has really given the possibility of joining and performing on the market for x years just through co-financing and costs to such organisers. So, I'm going to stick to what my colleague said my predecessor shouldn't, I'm going to do exactly that. We need a lot of education and our consumption, but also a lot of education and consumers about organic and biological food production, and here I might think that the ministry could play an important role in promoting eco-production today. It's not enough to say just eco-production and you'll get more. Everyone has to be aware that it's a far smaller production. Therefore, whether it is possible to produce more cost-effective products economically. Here, the club of national minorities means it will support this law. He is normally in line with the European Union well. There's some news in the declaration. They're going to make order on the market, but I think we all have to do a lot more together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62837	Thank you. That's what the clubs are all about. Before we move to an individual debate, I would like to give you a few notices about work and continuing work next week. The session continues on Tuesday 16 November at 15.00 p.m. with a point to be placed on the agenda on Tuesday, which is the 2011 Budget. The committees will be held on Tuesday morning, so I now urge all committee presidents to call in the meetings so that we can hold them. We expect the budget on Monday when it will be multiplied at the latest Tuesday morning, or already on the eve of Monday evening, and on the Internet of the Croatian Parliament it will be safe on Monday. An application for discussion is very important, please, will be received Tuesday from 9 a.m. at the Secretary of Parliament's office at the secretary of Bucharest's office on applications already in front of the council. So they're already outside, but don't come here before Tuesday, because the esteemed secretary of Bucharest has been receiving applications since Tuesday from 9:00 p.m. Please follow those instructions, and then we'll continue the session on Tuesday, and now we'll be done. We still have six, eight individual debates, and that would be the end of the work for today because the vote today will not be. In turn, the individual section is the first respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62838	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I was listening to all this thinking why we came to this law today and how it came to be and I remembered the fairy tale of Snow White. Here's to remember how the wicked queen put an apple in the poison, polished it. It's about as much as ours are polished with paraffin today. She offered her, the naive Snow White, she provided, ate and poisoned herself. Here to this day, believe me, I didn't think that way about this offer to Snow White, but there are the elements spoken of by my colleague Holly, and really when it begins to think about what we want to produce and how we want to eat, what product we want to take, then it's clear to us that the conventional product, which is the one that means that it's not based on organic production, but the one based on traditional production is the one that could be the replacement. And if they become organic products expensive they are still not expensive in Croatia. Their price is about 20 to 50% depending on what you buy more than one product is the widest consumption in stores. It's just for information. Let's say we have to eat three apples of conventional production, those that fell under the tree, and if we're lucky it's an old variety of apples that we can still find somewhere in Slavonia, Zagorje, Virovitica, then let's say in terms of vitamins and minerals, we'd need one organically produced apple to have C vitamins, minerals that have apples. Here I am sure that most people in Croatia no longer want to be naive Snow White and that they will definitely no longer go after a light red apple that is smooth, but will try to eat what is grown, least said in a traditional way. And what's important is organic production. Ecological producers in Croatia are growing more and more. We heard there were 817 of them. My wish is to tell you on some examples. What is certainly very interesting to me, which is the city of Zagreb and here I will tell you the example of a young family that began to deal with organic production in '94. A year. The lady finished her agronomy, so she's a degree in agronomy engineering and her husband has completed architecture. And they decided at one point at 4 ha, watch out for the living in Zagreb to buy and deal with the organic production of what the whole family jumped on their feet, so why did you go to school, you are normal, you are architecture and you will deal with this production. Today, this young couple have a huge experience, they have 60 ha of land. The secretary of state knows who it's about. Indeed, they united the enthusiasm of thinking about the knowledge they had collected during their studies, but of course the education and knowledge that they had collected by visiting different fairs, or by participating in workshops especially in Europe at the time there were many more of them than today. And please this is one of the first environmental manufacturers to have web sales and you can order your basket via the Internet today and it will come to your doorstep. So, you'll order your organic products. I must also say that it is a good tendency that organic products can also be bought in markets and in isolated places that are specifically marked where organic producers are, and then bio-shops in which products are sold are opened, our organic products. So, the ones that were produced by us. Well, there are restaurants that offer organic food. I hope that such an offer will soon be in our hotels. We already have in one part development and tourism. And what is important in this legislative regulation to say is, namely, this system of controls in my opinion is, therefore, one of the many important things that will be brought into line with the European Union. It means you'll be controlling everything. I remember about ninety and some when a mother's association started for natural law, then they called them witches, and they said they're completely not normal, they produce it in some weird way, but now it's all become normal. Normal and desirable. What I would also like to say, and you can see that I am cutting down the debate as much as possible, because you said all of those basic things, a colleague in front of the HDZ club said about Zadar and I would just like to say, as far as Dalmatia is concerned, that is, the establishment of associations, that is, associations not only in Dalmatia, but also in Croatia are very important, because they encourage organic agriculture and food production, and promote the idea of rural development, with an emphasis on environmental protection, the protection of human and animal health, and the preservation of biodiversity and traditional heritage. Now there is one, it is in reality the establishment of such associations, is one of the priority measures of the action plan for the development of organic agriculture, and in Dalmatia within... a project with a noble ambition to preserve biodiversity through the sustainable development of the Dalmatian coast, carried out in four Dalmatian counties in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, and with strong special financial support from the United Nations Development Programme. [[You don't understand.]] As four specific democratic areas of the project, due to their exceptional biological and landscape values, the bans of Pelješac, the Dubrovnik coast, the Maloston Bay and Mljet, Vis and the surplus aquarium, and the wider area of the Krka mouth, the area along the city... the sea, and the southeast of Pag. [[You don't understand.]] Here's what's important in ecotourism. In the region of Dalmatia, about 146 hectares of land are processed ecologically, according to 86 producers. In addition to olive growing, I would only do one small digression in view of yesterday's date, which is commendable that Zadar County is among the leading in the Republic of Croatia by areas under the vineyards of a thousand 570 hectares, it is of course ecological vineyards, and Nadina would be the first place with more than 400 hectares of vine vines, which are in line with the recommended cultures of northern Dalmatia, so there is Maraština, Debbie, Talasina, Merlot, Zadar, Vranac, and these other indigenous varieties, and it is satisfied with one of the main conditions for obtaining a geographical designation of origin, i.e. that varieties comply with the national list of recognised cultivators. And that's something in favor, a big deal in reality in the contribution of eco tourism and the merger of blue and green zones. I would just one more second, what I thought was important to say, we had a recent Law on Forests, and that's what I'm saying is that we have certified forests, and the ecological network of the Republic of Croatia has been proposed, and that's where scientists from the Faculty of Forests were built, I think I read that he was headed by the team. Vukelić, and a total of 241 localities from a surface of 41 thousand 670 hectares of forest, of which 241 localities 26 are in national parks and so on. It is important when it comes to harvesting these ecological, or fruits in forests. Of course, this law is also very important for those associations or organic cooperatives dealing with game production. Of course I'll support this law, and once again I'll just say let's not be as naive as Snow White, let's look around, let's take what's quality and healthy, let's not look into the eyes of the product, that means out, look into the soul of it, and you'll also see that you won't regret it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62839	Thank you very much, colleague. We've got two lines reported. First of all, distinguished colleague Davor Huška. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, you've really taken a good look at this whole problem, and I'm going to use... I repeat here, as I come from such areas through the war of the affected areas, where there are huge areas ideal for organic production, unfortunately they are covered as mine suspected areas and I suggest and I pray that the funds are provided for this very purpose and within the framework of the state budget through the centre, the Croatian Mine Action Centre, where the priority in the case of such production should have agricultural areas that are in our Western Slavonia and also in Eastern Slavonia, has unfortunately many mine suspected areas, ideal for organic production, because this is a country that has not been processed for 15, 20 years means perfect characteristics for the ability of organic production. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62841	Thank you very much, colleague Hushka. Does a colleague of the twilight want to use the right to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62842	I just want to say that I agree with my colleague, nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62843	Okay. An esteemed colleague, Marijana Petir, appeared in the replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with your presentation where you have actually well absorbed the potential of organic agriculture, and I believe that Croatia as a small country with a relatively well-preserved environment and of course a country that does not have a heavy industry, has great potential for the development of ecological agriculture and eco tourism, and I believe that we must base our development on this. That is why it is extremely important to put in context and all the millions of euros that are waiting for us I believe in structural funds and that we will use in a proper and good way, because through ecological agriculture eco-tourism we can strengthen self-employment, and on the other hand, of course, if we strengthen our self-employment, we protect the Croatian village and protect the people who live in the area. In the context of, of course, broader, if we look at it, Croatia is countries that have 12% of the area protected in the category of nature parks and national parks, about 50% of our area will enter the ecological network, and precisely those areas are suitable for the development of organic production. So, of course, I advocate, and here I welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture to raise, with this slightly less than 2% of the surfaces that are now under organic production at least 10% over the next 5.6 years, because organic production can therefore be a good form of self-employment, a good form of income creation for those who deal with the entire family economies, but it is a good and I think it is a good way to preserve Croatian space.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62845	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62846	I'm just signing the line, here's my thank you, buddy. There's nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62847	So we all agree... Let's move on with the individual debate. [[You don't understand.]] The esteemed colleague Branko Box is up. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62848	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'll cut my exposure down to the maximum. Environmental cultivation in recent decades is given priority over conventional and integrated production methods in all countries that have a tradition of agricultural production and food products. On the contrary, the European and global trends in the Republic of Croatia are about 14 thousand hectares in organic agriculture or 1.29% of agricultural areas compared to total farmland. Here's a colleague of Marinović's earlier on behalf of the club and Mrs. Sumrak mentioned Zadar County, so I'll continue in that tone. So, in Zadar County, nearly 70,000 hectares of farmland in organic production are only 1,022%. So, according to agricultural cultures, winemaking, olive growing, fruit growing, feeding plants, healing plants, mixed vegetables and some livestock is produced. According to the data, Zadar County is below the percentage stake in the entire Republic of Croatia. However, with a total of 308 hectares of vineyards in eco-production in the area of RH 103 hectares are in Zadar County. A colleague of Sumrak also mentioned Nadine as the most ecological vineyard site in the Republic of Croatia where 14 producers per 50 hectares produce wine grapes on ecological principles without the use of mineral fertilisers and chemical protective equipment, controlled by authorised control cells. In addition to the quality of wine produced from grapes from these surfaces, the fact is that 3 wines are in the category of high quality wines. I would also mention the winemaker, Mr. Bačić, who built an ecological vineyard on the forest land, meaning the debris, and produced excellent wine in the eco-transition period. Zadar County also has the first organic olive oil producer, the family of Žanpera from Dugi Otok, which are registered producers and eco-goat cheese. All producers who entered the organic production system by registering organic producers at the Ministry of Agriculture had to spend 3 years in so on. "transient organic production." The transitional period shall be determined for the purpose of cleaning soil, i.e. removal of pesticide residues in soil up to the rules of a certain acceptable level and adoption of agrotechnics because only in healthy soil grows a healthy plant. The chemical agents used to combat disease, pests and the use of mineral fertilisers in conventional production are the major interference with sustainable management of natural potentials. By reducing the use of pesticides, artificial... fertilisers and other agrochemicals and organic waste disposal from agriculture, we can preserve the country for future generations and consume a controlled and marked product. The safety and quality of food is a basic prerequisite for winning not only the domestic but also the global market. Therefore, our producers face a major challenge of organic production which is certainly more demanding than conventional, but gives consumers security and confidence in the overall system of production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62849	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear fellow MP Željko Turk is on his way. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62850	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. Here are a few more sentences that contribute to this topic, namely the proposal of the Environmental Production Act and the labelling of which I support. So maybe I'm saying, part of the word and Mrs. twilight when I'm talking about this subject, I can't help but think about certain stories from practice that might in a picturesque way just mean the actuality of this topic, but maybe it's partly answering the question of where we are currently today or how our beginnings and how they started, and when we're talking about this subject that's been legally and resolved since 2001 by passing the first law. ... I remember the theme back 10 or a little more years when it started to talk about organic production when the agricultural producer said to each other, "Look, you're going to shine corn, not a piece of artificial manure to him as a savings, he says, the subject has now eaten your head." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or example 2, in the context of the start-up of production in this segment, the organic production of cupin wine started, and then, on the other hand, the mockery of potential customers or us who might try it "see what the man is doing now, the recipe he invented." These two vivid examples may speak enough of what I am at this point and may point to, which is actually education. Education on one side of the agricultural producers themselves, and then education us as a consumer who, in an appropriate or quality way, can get certain knowledge of what it really means, which are certain advantages and disadvantages, because it certainly is both the subject, but so are the requirements and tasks of this type of production that are significantly different, so by the relations of income, the total costs, and then, finally, us consumers that we have to do so at some given moment and accept. But I said one part of the speech earlier that the world actually came up with everything, so today, the world and Europe in that production, above all related to organic production, went far away, that agricultural production and the area was larger than 10 % of the total surface area, which, therefore, means to us, which we are following and these roads, bearing in mind our still small area of agricultural, agricultural surface, which is either heated or in the frames of other organic production segments represented in Croatia. In this context, I therefore welcome these activities since 2001, the adoption of the first law, the amendment in 2007 and after further through a series of regulations to this new bill which I believe will make a significant contribution, in any case and its implementation. But it's kind of my comment at the end that I believe that anyway right now, and I would look first and foremost at education. There may also be additional resources needed from certain levels of the ministry or other bodies in order to get an even better and better picture of the benefits of organic production, and I support the law myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62851	Thank you very much. A colleague, Zdenko Franić, is up for his debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62852	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. There is a good law ahead of us we just need to find the mechanisms to put it in documented application or to be identified by the manufacturer. Namely, it is definitely past the time when manufacturers can work in a traditional way, organic production is highly sophisticated and requires objective evidence that certain procedures and rules are implemented, as evidenced by certain certification bodies with their certificates, that such production is indeed ecological, that it is in accordance with the requirements of certain international and Croatian standards, and regulations set by the Ministry of Agriculture. It is therefore very good that this law conditioned that these certification bodies must be accredited according to the 45 thousand 11 norm or general requirements for the institutions carrying out the confirmation of the product. So far, the situation has simply been that the Ministry of Agriculture has authorised certain companies to oversee organic production professionally. Of course, that's not enough. Such organisations should also prove their competence by accreditation from an independent third body or from a Croatian accreditation agency. In this context, it is certainly necessary to commend the activities of the Croatian Accreditation Agency, which has so far accredited 200-point laboratories and certification bodies, etc. many of them are related to activities related to agriculture and livestock. Let us also mention the laboratories that conduct the study of GMOs, also mention the Croatian Veterinary Institute, which has a series of accredited methods related to food and livestock safety. However, that is far from enough. Further efforts should be made to ensure that manufacturers prepare for certification, as one is their control, and the other is all the very complex and demanding actions that manufacturers must satisfy and pass in order to even enter the certification process of their production. At the same time, the Ministry of Agriculture provided some support for such activities and for the accreditation of laboratories involved in food safety testing, but perhaps the time has come, not that the time may have come, but it is definitely necessary for the state to make sure that producers who wish to do so are also able to provide some educational content to prepare for environmental certification. This can, of course, be done with the help of the Education Committee, for example. in the Croatian accreditation agency or some other mechanism. But that's definitely what it takes. After all, the International Standardisation Organisation popular ISO also voted 26 thousand on social social responsibility and it is obvious that this law and activities related to its implementation are also the perfect fit and in the area of this standard, which is expected to be the strongest and most sold and used norm that will even exceed the ISO 9000 standard for quality management. Therefore, all of these activities could help the Republic of Croatia and this segment of organic production to be included in a demanding market in advance or better in a timely manner but with certain advantages over our potential competitors. The fact is that we are fortunately less polluted than some of our Western or northern neighbours, and of course we need to use it. But I say it is necessary to come up with educational content, to spread awareness among producers about the need to enter this very, very demanding, complex procedure of obtaining a certificate, to meet very strong conditions and in order to achieve this, of course, the necessary support is needed, so the government should consider, instead of supporting the production itself, that support is also given for the content of the preparation of the agricultural holding and agricultural production in accordance with the Environmental Production Act. And dear Mr. Secretary of State in this context, although it is not directly related to your activity, but to the activities of the Ministry of Economy and the entire government, here we will discuss the budget soon. I would like to warn that the Croatian accreditation agency has serious difficulties in fulfilling its basic function namely, it is on the budget in the treasury system and in fact it does not have enough money to pay off external experts who carry out the activities of assessing the compliance of laboratories, certification bodies etc. Paradoxically, it is expected that a small pulsating agency of 23 employees has hundreds of experts, etc. which could aliminate such a complex system from two hundred accredited laboratories, and here they will be more after these six cells are accredited for certification activity. So, intellectual services are, in some cases, intellectual services, and they are distributed to Croatian experts and scientists whom we have, but we still have to pay for it. And therefore, it should consider how the financing of the Croatian accreditation agency should not come into very difficult situations, which will certainly happen in early 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62853	Thank you, fellow MP. A distinguished colleague, Djurdja Adlesic, is on her way. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I will, of course, support this law. However, it is certain that there is always a risk that the law is good and that we are stuck at implementation. In order not to do so will really need to start working on education in time, on strict conditions, and on necessary support. And I agree that perhaps we should start talking in the budget itself about how to especially support people who do this job because it is certainly the future. We can be more competitive here. Although, of course, the fact that we're competitive in this area doesn't necessarily mean in itself that everything else is good, because we're a country that didn't have a strong industry, we have no pollution. So there's this other side, of course. However, I wanted to draw attention to another area which they touched in their debate between counterparts Huška and counterpart Sumrak, which is a mine suspected area. Namely, Croatia still has every fifth resident in mine suspected space. At the beginning of the year, there were about 870 square miles. Now that's about 840. So the pace of demining goes very slowly. It's going very slowly, I'll tell you a colleague when you're throwing it so culturally. It is that Croatia is the most depreciated with its own funds from the budget. The amount of money Croatia gives in relation to its own budget is Kuwait alone. So, from the state budget comes the most funds. The problem has arisen in donations that, of course, have been in significant decline for the last year and a half to two. It is not to be expected that the demining donation will be better next year, it is clear for what reasons. We cannot, of course, expect everything from Brussels even though it often serves as a good excuse. And I'm going to tell you that we put the whole year's priority right on agricultural land in the deployment of demining funds this year. There are still about 26% of them in mine suspected mine polluted. Of course it doesn't mean it's in the mined space. It would be good if you did, why I'm actually telling you to do this to amend the Agricultural Land Act. I've been doing something to amend that law and it would be good to prepare it for the very beginning of the year, so by the spring when the pace will go a little faster in the demining area, to measure it so that it can be allocated to those who are willing to have certain priorities. There are still priorities now, but they are being stepped up towards a space that is ready to demine by their own means. So, to sign off on the fact that some are willing to invest in demining their own space. I know that there are interested people who would like to engage themselves in such a space but their law is still quite limited, although I say in time, something has been fixed. In addition, the amendments to this law should also work on another joint project, which is to increase funds from European funds for countries under mines, for an area that is classified as agricultural land. Part of these funds shall be provided through an ITF that doubles the funds. However, we should find a part of it ourselves. We've really done a lot of work on this, but never enough, so I'm asking you nicely to maybe work on speeding up the amendment to the Agricultural Land Act, not just the Mine Action Act, which is what a colleague so deliciously added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62855	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Boro Grubisic applied for the replica. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, this incursion that was during the presentation of distinguished counterpart Djurdja Adlesic was spontaneous, so there was nothing bad about it. So it's about this debate that mentioned the demining that I was talking about in my debate. In this regard, given that Adlesic was in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I must say that the European Commission had a tender two years ago for the award of non-refundable demining funds in Europe, in countries, to European countries. At that time, Rwanda, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Macedonia and other countries also appeared, but Croatia did not report to the competition. The Croatian government did not recognize or anyone was therefore effective when applying for the competition. The regional development agency Slavonia and Baranja, which operates in Brussels and has eight members, has recently seen the proposition, the conditions of this tender and applied for the allocation of these funds. Unfortunately, this is how it was done, so today two percent, about two percent of the surface area of the Republic of Croatia is still mine suspected or undefined, which means somewhere near 9 hundred square miles from the 54,5 thousand that Croatia has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62857	Thank you very much. Replica response, dear colleague Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course I forgive my colleagues, I know he's spontaneously reacting because he's sensitive to this problem himself, but I'm happy to tell him I can't explain on behalf of the government right now, it'll probably be arranged by a colleague from the government or some other time, but I'll be happy to tell him what happened exactly with Osijek-Baranja County. I was there, along with CROMAC leadership. The meeting also invited neighbours from Hungary, so that we could compete on the funds, on the IPA, we also need the Hungarian side. That's when we worked out the projects together, both the deadlines and the projects we're working on. I know about another attempt by your agency in Brussels last week that unfortunately you haven't realized, I don't know why there's probably been some difficulties, but I believe we'll solve a part of it through IPA, but we can't expect any help to demining ourselves. I must say that I find it terribly difficult to explain the fact that even before I entered the government, and before you were here, we have come to the position that all the countries of our neighbourhood, except Bosnia, have mined, including Montenegro, is ahead of us this work under the Ottawa Convention until 2019, I hope it is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62859	Thank you very much. This is certainly very interesting, we know that others are following it, if we have looked at a little bit and the envelope that has been agreed on 10 million euros is just being provided for that land that we are going to put into operation in this way, which means that others are planning that we will do it and that they will also fund it through certain means, but we certainly need to put it through the law and action plans more intensively into realisation, and I am glad that here we see it, and we all agree together. Dear counterpart Dragan Vukic, it is up to his debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear secretary of state. The organic production law of agricultural and food products entered into force in 2001. As we know during 2007, the Council Regulation on organic production and labelling of organic products, which began to apply in 1.1.2009, entered into force. In view of the fact that the basis for the adoption of the current organic production law of agricultural and food products has been a regulation, which was put out of force when Council Regulation came into force, it is therefore necessary to adopt a new Act on organic production and labelling of organic products in order to further coordinate the system of organic production. As we know, organic agriculture developed from biological dynamics in the first half of the 20th century, and the main goal was to stop soil degradation. In the general public, it is mostly meant to produce so-called production. healthy food, i.e. on agricultural production without use... It's a chemical. [[You don't understand.]] This is just one of the characteristics of such production, this is about overall management, which aims to make maximum use of the potential of a particular eco system. The purpose of organic agriculture is not to deny and reject the positive achievements of conventional agriculture, but to find environmentally acceptable solutions. Environmental agriculture is part of modern agricultural production, trade and agronomic science, and is precisely based on its latest knowledge and achievements. This is a process that develops a sustainable agrosystem. The key to successful production is the existing fertility of soil and is based on the natural abilities of plants, animals and landscapes, with the aim of optimising quality in all aspects of agriculture and environmental protection. Co-operation with nature instead of its systematic destruction gives much better results. Environmental agriculture is included in the concept of sustainable development, as a whole series of measures covering overall weight management in the context of environmentally clean, economically cost-effective, ethically acceptable and socially fair agricultural production. Environmental production is essential if we want to preserve the country for future generations. The adoption of the Environmental Production Act and the labelling of organic products will boost the creation of a new market, increase consumer confidence, achieve higher prices, reduce resource utilisation intensity, protect the environment, sustainability of agricultural soil, greater transparency of products and reprocessing, equality of products in the domestic market competition, fostering further expansion of organic-oriented agricultural production in line with natural conditions. Organic production enables the creation of a new area in the agricultural economy with a perspective of reorientating existing economies in an ecological and profitable sense. Organic production enables sustainable management of natural resources, reducing the use of pesticides, artificial mineral fertilisers and other agrochemicals, and organic waste disposal from agriculture, as well as creating more favourable economic conditions of production. Environmental production and labelling of organic products also enables the promotion of organic production, rules for organic production, processing, storage, transport, packaging, labelling, conformity assessment and control of organic production are regulated. The law also regulates the use of material for the reproduction of fertilisers and other resources in organic production, determines the competent authorities for the control of the production process and the quality of the product, the competent authorities for inspection, the manner of implementation and the powers of the inspection bodies, and also criminal provisions for the violation of the laws and regulations governing organic production. The main purpose of organic production is the protection of human health and life, the protection of nature and the environment, and consumer protection, the preservation of balance, and the creation of links between manufacturers and the market. The provisions of this law allow manufacturers in the Republic of Croatia to have the same production conditions as those in the European Union countries, and to ensure conditions for the protection of the interests and trust of consumers through clear and detailed provisions on the labelling of organic products. The law will facilitate the fulfilment of the future obligations of the Republic of Croatia relating to the accession of the European Union and create conditions for the placing of organic products on the European Union market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62861	Thank you very much, colleague. Now it is time for the debate, distinguished colleague Karolina Leakovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62862	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have heard from previous discussions that the number of organic producers has been growing in Croatia over the past few years. Of course, that's very good news. It is also good news that consumers are therefore increasingly aware and increasingly educated, more informed about the benefits of the consumption of foods produced in biological, organic and ecological cultivation, and it is certain that this law is a step forward in this regard. Here, and a colleague earlier said that by joining the EU our producers, environmental producers are actually putting on and coming in kind of the same level with producers in EU countries, or they will do business and produce under the same conditions. However, the real question is whether our environmental producers are ready to do so and whether they will have enough time to adapt to the EU market's competition since, of course, EU countries are investing that things are now much more in encouraging organic production than the Republic of Croatia does. In that sense, I advocate that in the future more resources are allocated to promote organic production, and I mean not only agricultural production but also others, other production. So, production of cosmetics, production of cleaning and textile products in the extreme case. It should therefore also be more educated and informing consumers, and in the end I think that organic agriculture, with, say, renewable energy sources, is one of the strategic development branches of the Republic of Croatia, and that this must indeed be given more attention in the future. We have also heard from our colleague Sumrak today that many young and educated and professional people are starting to deal with agriculture in Croatia, especially organic agriculture and the growing number of organic agricultural economies, and I am sure that investments in such activities cannot be wrong and, of course, I again appeal to invest more, to invest, I would say, and smarter and strategic in order not to satisfy some partial interests but actually acted in the interest of development and agricultural production as a whole in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we don't have many surfaces under this kind of production, we've seen less than 2%. And for example, in our nearby Austria, it's somewhere if I'm not wrong about 14%. And as counterpart Holly pointed out in this sense, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can do more, so it can work on giving concessions to land owned precisely by producers dealing with organic production. This is a process, unfortunately, that does not take place with the dynamics envisaged and is also being warned by agricultural producers and organic agricultural producers. So it's a big problem for them because there really are people who want to work and invest, but on the other hand, it doesn't seem like there's too much hearing for their ambition. I think, in the context of this law, I'd actually like to warn you of two problems. One problem is imports of organic products that are really big. So, not only do I mean importing groceries but also, as I mentioned, importing cosmetics, importing cleaning products and clothes lately. There are indeed many products on the market, but as far as I've noticed, and as far as I've heard, there's no precise data actually on how much organic fruit and vegetables are imported and how much conventionally grown. And finally, I would like to draw attention to Article 59(2) of this Act, which defines one transitional period of 6 months for products marked by eco, bio, organic, and actually not produced in accordance with the provisions of this Act. I mean, and I'm interpreting that transition period of 6 months actually by a concession obviously to some producers and some private interests because manufacturers who wear eco-labels were, and actually did not produce their products according to these labels had a certain time in which they had to adapt and I don't see any reason to give them an additional period in which they had to adapt if they didn't want to or weren't able to do it in the past or even for years. And I believe that, in my court, it is a hoax of consumers in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia should not participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62863	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague colleague, Nadica Jelash, has applied for further discussion. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62864	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The importance of organic production at a recent economic moment in Croatia is indeed great because unfortunately, in the interest of the representatives, their presence here in the assembly would not allow for conclusion. In fact, organic production is indeed a huge reservoir for increased employment in agriculture, processing and sales, and for better exploitation of agricultural areas, especially in rural and war-torn areas. So, in revitalising the village, improving the quality of life in the country and ultimately reducing migration and aging the village, which is currently an uncontestably big Croatian problem. Although the interest in organic production in Croatia is on a steady rise, which is best seen by several times by numbers of growing areas under organic production. We started there in 2002 with some 50 acres [50 ha] so that today the surfaces under organic production would be almost 15,000 hectares [15,000 ha] of which it is working about 3.5 thousand while the rest of the surfaces are pastures for cattle and bees. So, however, the ecological production in Croatia today takes place on only 1.3% of total agricultural areas. And it is therefore a well-set national goal to expand this production to 8% of the total agricultural area, which is in fact today's average in EU countries. This improvement in organic production, i.e. agriculture in Croatia, with a marked increase in demand for healthy food due to the increasing awareness of Croatian citizens, has been largely due to the increase in incentives for organic agriculture, which are twice as much as incentives in conventional agriculture. However, in cooperation with the profession, the state has well educated producers on the ground, and has helped to organise the very working part of the organic production better. In this sense, of course, the very important role in this educational empowerment of organic production was still to be played by the Agricultural Advisory Service, which we know is recently passed by law in the context of the so-called package. "Fusion laws" attached to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. This is the government's move that we at the SDP club were not satisfied with. We pointed out our concern that such an institutional arrangement of the Advisory Service would be a limiting factor in the full contribution of the profession to further the development of organic production or agricultural production as a whole. As we have heard, the most important resource in organic production is agricultural land that must meet certain standards. We could say that actually happiness is in the accident that our domestic farmers and otherwise spend little artificial fertilisers or various pesticides and herbicides in plant protection, so agricultural land does not take so long to move from conventional production to healthy food production. In one word, this kind of economic lagging in this segment, so that one non-pollution could actually be a Croatian comparative advantage for organic production. So we could say any evil for any good. In this context, it is good to say that almost all honey production, for example, is worth 5,000 tonnes annually, could immediately become eco honey because of its quality and diversity in production. And I remind only the EU market annually demands about 200 thousand tonnes of honey. Further to what I would like to say with organic food production is the most closely related and eco tourism that has become a modern phenomenon of travel, and is generally promoted as the fastest growing segment of the world's travel industry, which in the last five years is growing at an annual rate of over 30%. And what she would like to point out in this context is that healthy food can become a very high-quality component of this very domestic tourist offer, but also a good fill-up of its so far I would say quite thin extra board offers. The best evidence for this is the Orehovec family from Međimurje with the biological dynamic production of healthy food on its farm in Šenkovec near Čakovec. Speaking of Međimurci and I can't do that when it comes to organic food production, then I have to say that the ideaal beginner of biological dynamic food production is Dr. Rudolph Steiner. Born in 1861 in Međimurje. Unfortunately, today he is more famous in Austria. I'm taking the opportunity to say that in Vienna, the Symposium on the life and work of Dr Steiner, who 80 years ago, here's one interesting thing that predicted cow madness disease, which is nothing more than cannibalism among animals. And one of his messages is that non-compliance with natural laws in food farming can be fatal to health. But I will return with one sentence already mentioned by Bernardi Orehovec, so Bernarda Orehovec is actually the first Croatian demeter. In fact, about 5,000 items carry an international ecological demeter sign, which around the world means the concept of foods of the best quality. The demeter trade mark may only be requested by one who works in accordance with eco guidelines for at least two years. The ecological awareness of the Međimurje is also said that the International Fair of Ecology and Healthy Food is being held regularly in Čakovec, so just a few days ago, on November 14th and on November 7th 25 exhibitors gathered, of course most from Međimurje but from the county of neighbouring Međimurje, as well as from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62865	Thank you very much. I'm sure it was nice to hear these indicators. Even though what is often pointed out today needs to be taken care of both the evidence and what it is because unfortunately there are also those who can throw themselves away, so you know these abuses. And that's what's being said here many times today, and it's certainly a complex question of how to connect that production that looks simple and like going back, and it's actually something that needs to be invested in and a lot of knowledge. The replica was reported by counterpart Chuhil. Here's my colleague Zdenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62866	Of course it was nice to expose a colleague, but one expression doesn't seem to work out in her presentation somehow. Healthy food. We have to use the term either bio or eco or organic food. Because we can't say that all the food is left, or that 90 percent of the food on the market is unhealthy. And conventionally produced food is under medical, chemical, I don't know which biological control, etc. Let's at least practice ourselves which of us knows something about that we're using exactly that organically produced or these three terms that the law normally uses. Because potentiating healthy, we don't get healthy into an area that's not good to use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62867	Thank you very much. A colleague of the twilight corrections.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62868	Thank you. A colleague just said, so the absolute debate is determined but the Food Act is every food, food. What's not healthy is not healthy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62869	We have two final statements on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Mariana Petir. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62870	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. The club of the representatives of the HSS will support the adoption of the Environmental Production and Labelling Act. This is of course logical and should not be surprised since the first Environmental Agriculture Act was passed in 2001 with our very active participation. And that should not be surprising, and because we in HSS have worked hard enough to ensure in Croatia adequate conditions for the strong development of organic production. I would particularly like to say that on the HSS initiative of the HSS Councilors in the counties of all counties today, all counties have been declared free of genetically modified organisms, which means that, with October of this year, we can say that the Croatian country is free of GMOs or that no GMO seed is allowed anywhere in Croatia or for experimental purposes. This is our contribution to the HSS for Croatia to be a GMO free, for Croatia to be a green oasis, for Croatia to be a country of ecological production and eco tourism. We have taken a step further along with the pledge of the Committee on Environmental Protection with the approval of the President of the Croatian Parliament, we are connecting with countries in the region and working on the concept of declaring the entire region of the Alps-Adria area free from GMOs. Of course, in the HSS, we're saying that the areas under organic farming are increasing, because we heard the statistics. Today Austria has 25% of the area under organic production, Slovenia 30% We are on shy 1.29% and of course we should make much, much greater efforts in this segment. And I don't think there are any obstacles to that right now. Mr. Secretary of State, of course we at the HSS Club have advocated that this year we bring amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act because this is also important for organic production especially for those of our cattlemen. Because these changes and additions to the laws that we have jointly prepared we define pasture communities and allow the local population who cultivate cattle in an extensive way in these pasture areas to have adequate control, that imports and introduction of sick cattle are no longer taking place, and that these pastures and that cattle have their eco-marks or to enter the system of organic production. That's why here's full support. We want to see the Agricultural Land Act as soon as possible here in the Croatian Parliament. There were a lot of words about the importance of organic production. It is particularly interesting for us at HSS to develop a system of domestic sales. We think it is very important because this is how we protect the Croatian village, so we keep our self-employment in agriculture. This increases income, but it also preserves biodiversity. While the Croatian peasant lives in the Croatian village, the country is being processed, food is being produced, and we must be aware that today the sovereignty of a country is recognised for its self-sufficiency in food production. We have the capacity for this, and that is why we need to put that capacity in full function. Of course, as reasonable people, we advocate that there must also be a system of control and a strict system of control, but also a system of labelling because every consumer wants to know what he eats and if he pays a higher price why he pays a higher price. And I assure you that the organic product deserves to have a higher price on the market. And here's what I have to say in conclusion on behalf of the HSS. The HSS taught us that man, or I would say only a peasant can live in harmony with man, God and nature, because only a peasant knows that God forgives everyone, a man knows someone, and nature does not forgive anyone. In that philosophy, we were raised. We conduct this philosophy and we live and this philosophy is a provision for Croatian village and Croatian agriculture, especially ecological agriculture and eco tourism to have a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62871	Thank you very much. And the closing word on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62872	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. It would be nice the way Mariana Petir said if that were the case. But in a good part of the case, you don't respect things. Namely, to return to the subject, that organic production and labelling of organic products should be mentioned here that there is so-called. and the material is mentioned, therefore, in the transitional period or period of conversion as highlighted. This transitional period or period of conversion is, in fact, the period, the time period necessary to prepare, starting with the preparation of soil and other organic production. At that time of preparation or time of conversion, those producers who opt for organic production will receive incentives. This does not specify the time limit in this material as long as it lasts, so the preparation period, and it seems to me to be three years. Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary of State? So, for three years, incentives are paid. Later, you can make it clear. Later, it can also be abandoned if that agricultural producer decides that it will fail or does not want to produce in this area of organic production. Therefore, production is not conditional on both the preparatory period and the receipt of incentives during the preparatory period and the incentives are relatively high. Croatia stands out 30 million kuna for application, so this legislative proposal. It's a little less than yesterday's sum of money needed for HINA's work for a year worth 35 million kuna as much as I remember yesterday's debate. I would mention here also control mechanisms, so inspections of the services that are in, therefore authorized by or control bodies that empower the competent authority. So I would ask here because I am in doubt as many are going to be in doubt which is the competent authority of the control body. Is that the Agricultural Chamber? So does the Agricultural Chamber authorise a control body to carry out expert controls? The production of organic food in Croatia, given the depletion of properties where the average of about 5 hectares per OPG, can make a significant contribution to the family holding of the crop structure. Because without changing the structure of the crop, there is no organic production. They're closely connected to each other. Therefore, the change in the structure of the crop especially in small economies that have small areas, and this way of production can therefore have relatively high values and yields from these small areas which can then be left to them, so people in the country can live in the country in relatively good conditions. That's why we're like HSS, clearly and so we're GMOs for organic production. To what extent Croatia, where the percentage will have surfaces under eco-products, is now another matter. Because Croatia has land, it has the conditions to be sufficient not only in organic production, but also in the standard production as someone here said and argued it was healthy or unhealthy food. You don't have to say that other production isn't unhealthy. But in any case, organic production is something beyond the scope of this. The quantities of areas Croatia will have under organic production will actually need to coordinate between the sufficientness and this benefit from organic production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62873	Thank you very much, fellow Grubisic. And on behalf of the promoter, it was concluded that State Secretary Stjepan Mikolčić had come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62874	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, thank you for your undivided support for this bill. The Ministry and the Government are done for organic production here, I have to say a lot. The legislative, implementing framework has been created, the means of support that were here are provided, and you yourself have established twice as much as they were for conventional production, but obviously it wasn't enough for us to have this production with the title of predisposition that we have, as well as neighbouring countries or those that are our role model. And just all of your discussions, suggestions, suggestions, amendments will be useful to us, we will consider them and try to implement the regulations that are coming to us, on the basis of this law, to install them in order to really improve this important, important and significant agricultural production in the interest of Croatian agriculture, agricultural producers, in the interest of Croatia, from the titles of environmental protection, food safety, human health protection, and a lot of this to say the factors that we were talking about today. From that title, thanks again for everything, and I can immediately show myself here about the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, that we also accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62875	Thank you, Secretary of State. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing, and I'm concluding this agenda item. We'll vote when there's going to be conditions. As for the continuation of work, let me remind you, on Tuesday, at 3:00, we'll continue to work, we'll have an update on the agenda, we'll go with the budget. The board presidents have asked me to say that during the weekend or tomorrow you will be called when the committees are held. As a rule, it is scheduled to be Tuesday morning, so that conditions can be created so that the budget debate can begin immediately. And the secretary asks me not to have any of the problems or dilemmas that we had at the beginning of this week, related to applications for debate, on Tuesday from 9 a.m. on Tuesday, the secretariat can be filed, and normally afterwards, to see who's next for discussion. Thank you very much. I'm closing this week's session and I'll see you Tuesday.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-12-0.u62876	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on organic production and labelling of organic products, was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 637, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on organic production and labelling of organic products. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This Final Proposal for a Law on organic production was adopted by the majority, 108 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted. Please, as it is announced, ladies and gentlemen, since we have completed the agenda of the 20th session, we are moving to - Proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013. - Proposals for financial plans of extra budget users for 2011 and projections for 2012 and 2013: (a) Croatian Waters (a) Croatian Roads (a) State Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation Agency (a) Croatian Privatisation Fund (a) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 84 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 37 Budget law and Article 174. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Act have been adopted into the boxes. Where the State budget is adopted, the provisions of Articles 174 and 175 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Spatial Planning and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projections. During the debate on the proposal for a state budget and projection, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure, expenditure and amounts set out in the proposal for a state budget and projection may be submitted provided that other expenditure and expenditure are reduced simultaneously in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out that it is not possible to vote on the amendments submitted on the budget as a whole before three days from the date of the debate. So this is all familiar, but I'm a little bit renewed, though, so we can all remind ourselves of that. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I ask the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, to further explain the proposal for a state budget. Here you go.
