ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62559	Thank you very much, President. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. There is therefore a Annual report before you on the work of the agency that we are required to deliver to this High House, in accordance with the law. This report covers the activities of the Agency in the field of protection of competition in a narrow sense, as well as those relating to the application of the State Aid Act. The report also contains basic information on the international activity of the Agency, i.e. its cooperation with competition authorities in other countries, in particular the European Commission, and on participation in the work of national institutions, such as the OECD and the international network of competition agencies. Before I introduce you to the basic features of the agency's work in 2009, let me say some important things about the agency. So the agency was founded in 1997 by this very Parliament. In accordance with the law, she is a legal person with public powers, who performs competition protection tasks, which are regulated by the two laws, namely the Competition Protection Act and the State Aid Act. The agency is responsible for its work to the Croatian Parliament. The work of the agency is managed by a five-member council, which is once again appointed by the Croatian Parliament, while the Agency's professional service performs administrative and professional tasks for the needs of the council. So the Agency's professional service, based on the powers given by law, prepares draft decisions, while the council makes decisions. Such a way of preparing decisions by the Agency’s professional service on the one hand, and taking them by a collective body of five members on the other, ensure a professional and professional approach, exclusive discretion in the conduct of procedures and decision-making and also allow for an impartial decision-making manner, given the five members of the Council. In 2009, 51 employees were employed, including members of councils who carry out their duties professionally, and 33 of them are responsible for preparing decisions. The agency's budget last year was 19.5 million kuna, of which 13 and a half million were allocated to the agency's regular activities, with around 6 million representing EU funding from the PHARE 2005 programme. On this occasion, I would also like to introduce you to the fact that since 2003 the agency has been a beneficiary of dozens of EU projects, with a total value of over 6 and a half million euros. So this shows how much the Agency's activity really is, and how important it is to prepare the Agency for Membership in the European Union. Speaking of statistics, this is an opportunity to say that in 2009, the agency solved 240 cases and 188 from the scope of the Competition Protection Act and 52 from the scope of the State Aid Act. Infringements in the past year have been imposed, and fines have been charged for breaking the law amounting to about one million kuna. However, the most important job done at the agency last year is not covered by this statistics. It refers to the creation of a draft new Competition Protection Act, i.e. the completion of the initiative launched by the Agency in 2006, with the aim of the necessary completion of the then applicable law, in order to correct its shortcomings and create conditions for establishing a better and more efficient competition protection system in the Republic of Croatia. The agency reported regularly through its annual reports to this House. It is therefore important to say that the new Competition Protection Act was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in June 2009, and it came into force on 1 October this year. So let me remind you, with a few sentences, of the purpose and purpose of adopting new and time-adjusted law. I believe that this is necessary for the simple reason that today, in times still marked by the consequences of the deep financial and economic crisis, and there is still a significant presence of the state in the economy, it often raises the question of what the concepts of the market, the market economy, the freedom of competition mean in modern conditions. However, regardless of the occasional crises, the depth of these crises and the consequences they bear, have proved undeniable how economic growth, innovation, technological change, competitiveness, however we define it, is not possible to achieve a management without a market or how we like to say it without the freedom of competition. However, the market is not able to achieve the mentioned effects, therefore economic growth, competitiveness and well-being, without certain corrective mechanisms. That is why we need rules, i.e. we need rules that allow interventions and corrections of market, certain market behaviours. Otherwise monopolies, private or public anyway, market-sharing agreements or prices would soon become our reality in many markets. However, in order to deliver the results of the State intervention, they must be controlled, efficient and sustainable. Therefore, the adoption of a new law as a basic regulation governing the rules and norms of competition when it comes to merger and takeover control, preventing the conclusion of prohibited agreements or preventing abuse of the ruling position strengthened the role of this agency in the market and created conditions for strengthening competition discipline. Namely, the new law imposes administrative and criminal measures on infringements of the law in the jurisdiction of the Agency and allows for the release or mitigation of penalties for penitent persons who reveal the existence of prohibited agreements. So we got far more effective, I'd say, a law enforcement tool than the one that was available to us under the former law that we did until this year. More importantly, the conditions for prevention in terms of deterring entrepreneurs from intentional or unintended violations of the law have been created. In fact, each entrepreneur will have to pay much more attention to the way he behaves on the market than his competitors, contract partners or users of his products and services from the day of entry into force of the new law. Although the most important decisions of the agency from the past year are more detailed in the report that is set before you, and they are also fully available on our website, but in the National Journal let me, however, say a few words after this brief presentation of what the new law brings, I say, and a few sentences about the procedures we conducted last year. In 2009, after extensive and comprehensive investigative procedures covering dozens of entrepreneurs made decisions to halt the abuse of the ruling position by the Croatian composers' or ZAMP, interrupted the practice of agreeing on the prices of entrepreneurs providing car-school services in some Croatian cities, as well as the practice of agreements between competitors on the prices of housing services in some Croatian cities. We intervened on several occasions on the sales market and service of motor vehicles and the like. It is important to point out that all those decisions and interventions are against them, although administrative disputes before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia have nevertheless resulted in an immediate change in the behaviour of the entrepreneurs concerned. For example, ZAMP even returned money to those entrepreneurs whom the agency established a violation of the law. In the field of evaluation of the concentrations of entrepreneurs in the previous year, a permitted 16 concentration was assessed while 1 concentration was assessed and that was the one relating to the acquisition of the prevailing influence of MOL over INA was assessed on a conditional basis. The assessment of this concentration has led to the highest public interest, but unfortunately only half a year after the Agency's conditional approval. Namely, the agency made a decision on the conditional authorisation of this concentration at the beginning of June of last year, with a transparent, open-ended and prior to the decision to initiate the procedure on its website, it announced a public call to all entrepreneurs and all interested parties to submit comments and opinions on the intention to obtain the control of MOL over INA. Although almost all the media reported it, it was an opportunity of 2 weeks to declare that no legal or natural person in the Republic of Croatia has submitted any comments to this concentration to the Agency. The Agency’s decision, which was publicly announced only a few hours after the adoption and against which it was possible to initiate an administrative dispute within 30 days, is not in this only legal way disputed before an appropriate court instance. The Agency's decision was published in the National Journal in September 2009 and it contains very detailed descriptions of all phases of this process, a comprehensive economic analysis of the market and an explanation of the measures the Agency has imposed. I therefore take this opportunity to stress that this whole procedure is conducted professionally and according to the rules of the profession, i.e. Croatian and European regulations and rules applicable to the assessment of the concentration of entrepreneurs and that the agency has made the right decision and appropriate measures within its jurisdiction to prevent the negative effects of concentration on the Croatian oil market and on Croatian consumers. In addition to the decisions mentioned, the Agency’s work and its role in promoting the market economy which, as I have already said, creates conditions for greater economic growth and expansion of entrepreneurship must be seen through the part of the activities where the Agency has its opinions on the rules which produce effects on competition and which encourage the development of competition to help those who produce or those who adopt those regulations. For example, recent examples of decision-making in the car taxi market in Zagreb, Rijeka in Karlovac also included very active cooperation with competent authorities where the agency has given very professional instructions on how to prepare regulations that will strengthen competition and thus contribute to the well-being of citizens. The agency also participates in the work of working groups for EU entry, various regulation-making groups, analysis of different markets and the like. As regards state aid, it should be borne in mind that in 2009, it marked a situation in which the EU state aid rules were somewhat amended. As Croatia committed itself to applying these regulations to the Republic of Croatia, so the role of the Agency was to bring state support providers closer to that regulation and to allow them to prepare their own support programmes that will be harmonised on the one hand with national or European legislation, but also adapted to the conditions of the crisis. Although it is the 7th support programme, the agencies actively participated in their preparation, or assisted the support providers. The coverage of users and the amount of funds targeted at these support programmes at the time of the crisis in our assessment is still too small and simply could not change the circumstances more significantly or help the Croatian economy face the crisis. It's final. In the past 2009 the emphasis in the Agency's work is given to create a better legal framework for the protection of competition, to detect prohibited agreements as the most difficult forms of distortion of competition, in particular those relating to price agreements between competitors, to prevent abuse of the ruling position in activities affecting a large number of entrepreneurs or even citizens, and to control state aid, or to assist state aid providers in order to provide support or individual support schemes granted to individual industries or entrepreneurs in accordance with regulations and support in the least possible way to distort competition. We have also established cooperation with competition authorities in other countries, international institutions and the like. I must say that we are extremely proud that our employees are already going as consultants to educate other countries in this complex matter, I must stress the legal economic matter, but because cooperation with the Croatian academic community is especially with the Faculty of Law and Economics in Zagreb, Rijeka, Pula also at a very high level. That we are on the right track to witness and have just come up with a progress report on which the role of the agency has been highlighted in several places and which speaks enough about our importance for the situation that will take place after EU accession. In this report, we are called a respected agency established by the agency, and on the eve of EU membership, we are given great tasks in order to meet the criteria for closing negotiations in the competition chapter. So, before the agency, there is a great deal of coordination and work organisation related both to the application of the new law and to almost EU membership. Therefore, the Agency must be further qualified for the application of domestic legislation and also for the direct application of the European acquis. And it must also be able to help the Croatian economy in order to make full use of the structural funds and thus actually all the benefits that membership brings to full advantage. Given these tasks, these activities, we need the support of this House more than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62560	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Economy, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62561	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. At its 42nd meeting on 4 November, the Economic Committee discussed the Annual Report on the work of the 2009 Competition Protection Agency. The Committee discussed this report as a parent working body. In fact, the members of the board expressed satisfaction with the new powers of the Competition Protection Agency to which it was assigned by amending the Competition Protection Act. The new law encourages a much more effective competition protection system. Infringements to the rules on the protection of competition are no longer considered to be infringements but infringements of sui generis. This means that for violations of the law, the agency imposes administrative criminal measures. In this way, the uniform procedure provides for simultaneous violations of the law, but also sanctions for those infringements. New powers shall be introduced by the Agency for the Implementation of Punitive Programmes for Entrepreneurs working with the Agency for the Disclosure of Cartels. The law also introduces a test of significant distortion of competition. Croatia's competition law has also fully aligned with the EU acquis. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, an annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62562	Thank you. Does the government want a representative? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Bues Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62563	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mrs. Spevec with his associates. We have yet another annual report from one of the most important agencies that Croatia has in terms of the current process of Croatia's accession to the EU, but also of the overall process and would say the national interest to address market opportunities in terms of the final arrangement of the system according to which the Republic of Croatia should be a country, i.e. a free competition society. But according to the rules that we have predetermined are the rules by which we want to operate, which is a whole series of EU rules. It should always be recalled that the Competition Protection Agency was officially established 15 years ago, however, that it has been functioning for 13 years. 13 years is an extremely long deadline within which it was possible not only to define the legal framework for the Agency's activities but also to establish all the databases and quality review of the situation I would say in all sectors of the economy, especially in those sectors where protection of competition is extremely important because it is particularly sensitive areas where it is possible to reach a concentration that is suspicious or can be misused. Therefore, 13 years of work by the Agency has been a long period during which the Agency could, and should have, and should have been trained, not only in terms of staffing of such an important body, but also in the suggestions for amending the legal framework under which this area should be regulated and which is particularly important for the establishment of a database from which information will be easily, easily and quickly drawn up to make relevant decisions in cases which the Agency assesses relevant in the competition protection process. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying because it seems to me that the Agency's effectiveness after 13 years of filming and defining morale and should have been much higher than it is. The fact is that Ms. Spevec is not only here, but the representatives of the agency did so and warned on the home working body that the effectiveness of the agency cannot be measured solely by the number of cases that the agency has solved. This is true, especially if we take into account that in 2009, the year in which the new law was passed, i.e. in which the agency participated in a whole series of activities that led to the new law, new regulation and authority of the Agency and the different conduct of the Administrative Court, but also intensive negotiations that were concluded with a chapter that is not accidentally left to close in the process of negotiations on the accession of Croatia to the European Union. Market competition is obviously one of the most important issues on which the European Union insists that all candidate countries prepare in time and quality for integration into this large European market. And it's not without the devil and it's not an accident. But the very fact that this chapter remains practically the last and that there are still major unresolved issues that Croatia is facing is saying that we are somewhat weaker in this segment than we were in many other chapters that have already been opened and closed. I discussed last year on behalf of the HNS club, this year I speak on behalf of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats and the Croatian Party of Retireds and without any wickedness and the way Mrs. Spevec understood it last year. I would underline or compare at least some of the things that are visible in the 2008 and 2009 Reports. I will start from what the European Commission just recently said by assessing the situation in this area of competition protection when it assessed in its 2009 report, among other things, that a new Law on the Protection of Competition was adopted in 2009 in accordance with the Community acquis and that it made it important to clarify, in many segments and to increase the authority of the Agency itself. However, there is one assessment that is listed here and I do not know from where to the European Commission and who was the informer that the agency itself in the meantime hired an additional number of people. According to what we see from this report, that's not true. Namely, the agency had the same number of people, both in 2008 and 2009. So there was no additional teaming in that sense. The Commission rightly points to three problems. It is one that is extremely interesting to the general public. It is a question of restructuring, i.e. new positioning of Croatian shipyards. Likewise, the steel sector, and the adoption of a new Law on Croatian Radio Television, is mentioned. I remind you that before this House last year, there was a very lively and fierce debate when it was actually a problem with the agency's position that actually radio-television subscription was a form of state support. In this regard, not only those who spoke on behalf of the opposition were unique but there were also views from the positioning parties that there was no way to talk about the form of state support. However, it should be said that the new Law on HRT is still somewhere in the ministry drawer and we still don't know what the final proposal that should be coming to this House very soon will look like. But returning to this data on the number of employees I will remind you that according to the Agency's 2008 report, statistics were much, much better than in 2009. I would like to remind you that from the field of competition for each expert employee for the solution of one case, it should have been around 24 full-time working days, i.e. that each competent employee of the agency solved 9.36 cases in 2008. The statistics for 2009 are very devastating and let me remind you that now in 2009 each authorised employee of the agency took 40 working days to solve a single subject, i.e. that in the course of the year they were solved by 5.69. The effectiveness at the level of state aid did not change so drastically, but it changed almost 50%, and then each employee, in charge of solving state aid cases in 2008, took 30 working days to solve a single case, and in the course of the year 7.3 and this year, it took 44 working days, i.e. to solve 5.2 cases during 2009. I know statistics can interpret things one way or another. However, comparative analyses are good because it is not about the agency that was created two years ago, but about the agency that has been working for 13 years. And so the question arises how is it possible that we have this level of efficiency in solving cases? What will happen in 2010 when the new law is in full effect and when the level of authority of the agency is actually raised that I will remind myself of can react much more directly to all situations concerning the protection of competition where in a large number of cases it can react in a way that also search apartments, or rooms, seized things. It is possible to take certain measures and conditions by entrepreneurs during the procedure to eliminate the negative effects of its behaviour on competition, etc. etc. The very procedure that takes place before the Administrative Court has priority status. Therefore, much greater the Agency's powers are and should be expected to increase labour efficiency in 2010. But here we're talking about the number of total cases solved. Unfortunately, compared to 2008, he deteriorated with regard to how many working days it took to resolve a particular issue. After the discussion last year, I received from the agency an entire rebel paper that tried to convince that the tasks of responsible people in the agency were very complex, and that it was not just about ordinary administrative or irregular items, but that it was about spending a lot of time filming the situation. I would accept that argument if I were to repeat correctly that the agencies have been operating for only a few years, but since it has been working for 13 years, then I do not accept that argument, and it seems to me that, given the expectations of not only the founders, but also the extremely serious interests of the Republic of Croatia in this area, which are shown and crucial to close our negotiations for the European Union must be much more effective, you cannot convince me that, with so far functioning of the agency with such a database and a constant review of the situation, and here it is also trying to get away with the practice, that actually the concentrations are revealed mainly because the insiders are informing them, especially when it comes to unauthorized cartels, but it is also said that theoretically it can be done by monitoring the situation in the public, writing the media, the constant analysis of the situation on the market, so without any information. It seems to me that the agency is going in that direction to rely on tips in the future, and less and less on its own analysis, that's not good, and if, on average, it takes more than 40 working days to solve one of the items in the agency, it seems to me that this is not the level of effectiveness we expect from this agency. In this context, it should be said that this report does not differ significantly, nor in the model of the Agency's functioning compared to 2008, but that due to the changes in the law, which occurred during 2009, and that they entered into force on 1 January of this year, it is likely that the 2010 report will be different and hopefully it will be important and in that sense it will bring information on a much more direct engagement and then on the results of the Agency's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62564	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62565	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Richembergh, who argued that the effectiveness of the Competition Protection Agency has deteriorated, given the time of resolution of individual cases. Therefore, the timing of the resolution of individual cases in particular in the case of the Agency cannot be a criterion, especially not the only measure of efficiency, because it is not the same if the problem of some serious cartelisation is solved, or if some state support is granted. So it's 240 cases that were solved last year, and I think it's best to talk about efficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62566	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mrs. Olga Spevec, President of the Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62567	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm actually answering my word just for that reason that maybe I should say a few words about this issue, from the point of view of the number of cases, and from the aspect of the approach to being which Mr esteemed and esteemed representative Richembergh has according to the items processed by the agency. I've been working on this job for a long time, and I've also done some work at the ministry, and I know the work of agencies all over the world, especially those most developed, starting with the U.S. No agency shall measure its efficiency by the number of cases solved. However, it is measured entirely by something else, it is measured by the effects on the market. And there is one OECD analysis that says that such competition authorities can expect their operating performance in relation to GDP growth only 50 years after its establishment. So there's a very different approach. The effectiveness of the Agency’s work is therefore measured by the effects, i.e. if possible, of detecting the most difficult forms of prevention and distortion of competition, rather than the number of resolved cases. It is known that in the European Union, here is the recent cartel in cargo traffic, the discovery of this cartel, meaning the job done by the European Commission, lasted several years. According to statistics and the way the esteemed representative presents it, the European Commission, which today is the leader of the world in the management of competition infringement proceedings, would be declared extremely inefficient, for the reasons of this type of statistics and for reasons that, as I said, cannot be compared to, the work of these institutions, similar institutions by the number of resolved administrative cases. Because I'm sorry that I have to deny you and I'm sorry that we keep pulling the same thing, but in one sentence you're talking about the need for our alignment with the acquis, which is, of course, that agency has a terrible obligation to work by the rules that exist today in Europe. Tomorrow we will apply a direct legal gain and if we agreed in this way, we would actually fail, or our function, and we would actually get away from the way in which the competition, i.e. the procedures in the field of protection of the competition is conducted. The discovery of cartels in Europe was launched at the time Europe introduced so-called It's a penance program. I also have to deny you, so all the analysis that you have or which we can have is static, we can't know what's going on in the market between the two competitors. They can agree from yesterday to today, and therefore the penitent are necessary, so it takes an extremely high punishment to motivate, to give... As it is said, to apply, that you can't expect the agency is not an inspection, we can't walk from the firm to the firm and search, hunt the fish as they say, whether someone did something. [[You don't understand.]] We have to have one different approach, quite different from this, and with that about Mr. Richembergh, I'm sorry I'm going to have to disappoint you again and again I'm going to get the likely epithet of a person who doesn't work effectively. In all the years to come, the more we are in the European Union, the less we will have, the less and less. All the less objects, and more and more objects like... , as many items as the cartels in Pula, Split, as are cartels in some areas we are currently working on, newspaper publishers and the like. [[You don't understand.]] So the number of items guaranteed will be smaller, but our efficiency and impact on the market will be greater. Well, now we have to decide what we need more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62568	Thank you. We have an I.D., Mr. Agent Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62569	Mrs Spevec, your claim that according to my criteria, the European Commission would then be extremely ineffective. The European Union has 27 national agencies and the work of the European Commission is completely different from that of the agencies. In that sense, it's incomparable. One is the European Commission, the other is the national commission, or agencies. And further, as far as what you say will reduce the number of objects, that's absolutely clear. The more orderly the market the number of items will likely decrease. But I hope the number of employees in your agency decreases, so we won't talk about this anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62570	Thank you. On behalf of the club independent, Ms. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62571	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mrs. Spevec and her associates. First of all, I'd like to say that we at the Independent Representatives' Club will support this report by the agency, which was founded in '95, which is '97. become an operational agency because we are convinced that in the past 14 years the agency has done a good job, undoubtedly a lot of help in introducing order on the Croatian market. And we keep the good and these new responsibilities that the agency received on October 1st. This is an expression of criminal-administrative measures to entrepreneurs who violate the rules on the protection of competition and the implementation of the penitentiary programme. At one point, it seemed to me as the debate began that this was a continuation of the debate on the work of the State's Attorney's Office according to the terms that could be heard here. I'll draw attention to the other law that's in your jurisdiction, it's the State Support Act. It may be less attractive to speak because there is no mention of cartels, television, shipyards, but it is something that is very important to the standard of all of us. The Authority assessed the proposals for State aid and State aid programmes, the implementation and the effects of the State aid granted. However, we are now arriving at a very slippery terrain in a period that awaits us when we are entering the EU, and that is the topic I would like to try to open, and then we may get some more detailed answers, even though you are already something Mrs. Spevec said at the very beginning. We note, fortunately, that it ends the period during which the support was granted from the state budget, of course, and burdened the state budget. We know it was an overworked job for the agency. We hold for limited capacity, so almost the opposite of what we might have heard earlier. But it's a good thing you've managed to impose an obligation on anyone who approves of support in their portfolios to regularly consult the agency. Clearly, it has often been a long time before such an answer is received. We know that money is expensive and that it could certainly have been better. I will draw attention to your website on the 2010 and 2011 programme where it says that by joining the Republic of Croatia, the Competition Protection Agency will start to act in completely new conditions, in a completely new environment, and that the adoption of a work programme for the post-accession period of EU membership would at the moment be incomplete. What we are interested in and what we believe is important is the answer to how much you are actually ready for these new challenges, whether you have enough experts among the employees because it is more expensive to save on professionals than to hire them and pay for their education. In addition to the need to clarify the role of the Competition Protection Agency after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, the question I want to ask you is whether people participating in the definition of support for programmes to be financed for example. from structural funds or social funds sufficiently trained to create quality programmes that will be accepted by the EU and implemented in favour of Croatian branches in the planning phase of future support. And do we need to make additional accounts about this now when we're making the budget while we still have time. In fact, there's one piece of information, I don't know how accurate it is, that so far the programs that were involved, that almost everyone could be returned at least once to work when it came to pre-accession funds, which is, of course, normal in this period. That is why pre-accession funds exist to serve us as training and acquiring new knowledge for the use of access funds. So, what we hold with the adoption of this report is the necessity to identify and train experts who will work on new requirements that are being put before the agency because we think that saving this agency, on people, on their educations for Croatia would be far more expensive than it might look if we now save or save in making a budget. So we don't think these educations should be cut. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62572	Thank you. We have an announcement. The 43rd session of the Committee on Economy will be held today at 14 o'clock, so on November 11th, at Stjepan Radić's Hall 133/1. Notify the chairman of the board, Dragan Kovacevic. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62573	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Competition Protection Agency. At first let me say the SDP won't support this report. The objections are primarily those which we have highlighted all these years, which is that the agency does not achieve its primary purpose, which is to protect competition and ultimately consumers who need to receive quality and services that are protected from any illegal influences based on fair market behaviour. I'm going to go through this report for a little while, which was done technically, and it shows what the agency was up to. I'm not going in there if there are 15 people in this department or 16 people in that department, that's irrelevant. I want to see the essence of what is happening on the market and how the agency is working on those issues for which this body, meaning the Croatian Parliament, and asked it. The report is dominated by certain items and analysis and sanctions for illegal behaviour, for example regarding certain auto-schools, as regards the association of certain entrepreneurs who maintain car service buildings, etc., and these are matters to which the Agency should pay attention. But the agency should also pay attention to those biggest entrepreneurs and we mention it year after year. I will mention again the largest company in Croatia, which I think has an illicit concentration in retail, and although counterpart Spevec claims in one daily newspaper that the agency is trying to keep Agrokor below 30%, he has a stake of 45.50 in many areas of the Republic of Croatia. Of course not Agrokor, but Konzum as a retail chain. So it's clear why they're able to pay Onur and Sheherazad 300,000 euros to record their video. But sometimes they don't pay suppliers in the deadlines they should. And now it's not an objection to Konzum or Agrokor because they act on the market as someone allows them to, it's an objection to the agency for which nothing works. Therefore, in Zagreb, a retail chain can have 45 to 50% of the market, which the agency itself claims. It's a question that we can't get an answer to but a second, a third year in a row, and of course we can't talk about speculation here. But it's a shame these speculations can be pulled through the media, which is why. On the other hand, if we move forward, then on the very pages of the eaten companies within this concert, it boasts with shares on the market of 80, 70%. Let's say the Star on its pages says it holds 83% of the margarine market in Croatia. On the other hand, Jamnica holds 82% of the mineral markets and 58% of the original waters. So the agency would have to control it that way, so if I could get these data probably people of these 15 in one department, 16 in the second and MBA, the Ph.D.s as mentioned here in the report, we'd have to react and see these situations. Okay. It may not be the same when it comes to ice cream, because we don't all have to buy ice cream, but water definitely as a market of strategic interest must be under such control. Now, what counterpart Spevec said in the report, which triggered the greatest interest last year. The MOL and INA case, and there's the SDP, asked Ms. Spevec to come to the Research Commission and tell us what the talks were like about the concentration. What am I saying that for? Because of the fact that information has come to the public and the document under which the permitted or illicit concentration in the first version is circulated by the agency has taken a completely different position than it ended up being a served document. The first document said that the concentration of MOL and INA is to create a high ruling position of MOL on the Croatian market that will range from 60% to 82%. Now whether it is a concentration that is allowed or not, I leave it to the Croatian public to see. And then it was explained how MOL does it. It is concluded on the basis of a contract that the agency has seen that MOL has even the same number of management members, the administration makes decisions to the ordinary majority. Finally, it was concluded that MOL has an undisputed influence on INA’s business or control over the company’s finances. And it was a document that was like a work draft made at the agency. And then what happened? The Agency did not issue a solution and issued a solution one or a few days before the INA Assembly, in which the sale of Krobenca was conditional. I'm talking about the data that's in the media, that's never been denied. Krobenz is of course part of the INA but is much smaller than the agency asked to sell the fund first time or some company of greater importance. Why am I pointing this out, and why isn't the agency getting our support? Because politics, anyone who has affected the amended decisions of the Agency, if necessary for day-to-day political purposes, for one entrepreneur or another, must not do so. The Agency must be able to protect itself from this influence and the Agency is responsible solely for this Assembly, the body that has set it up, and if it is dependent on the majority who is setting it up and has to listen to politics, it always has a choice whether to do the job or not. We cannot accept that because of the majority, the current policy in society or country or government that is at the head of Croatia to do this kind of failure and to allow certain things that are not normal to be allowed. So it is one case that we consider particularly important for the Croatian public to hear and see why we believe that this work of the agency makes no sense. And it's not necessary to point out how much doctorate or MBA you have in your house, although it's commendable and it takes people to be more effective and to do their job better, but if you don't essentially do what you're set up for, you can't get support. Yesterday during the debate about the state's attorney, the same thing. If you don't whine and say we can't do politics pressure us, you have no excuse to keep doing that job and keep doing it. And that's why the SDP counseling club doesn't support the agency's work. I'm going to say another example that I've seen inside the reports, and that's a concentration assessment in the media. And now a dozen cases have been counted here, of which only two of them have been re-analysed with a short passage. But it's breaking into the MEA Media Milena Puss and Joseph Mayher Zagorjska Sports Network. I'm surprised by the fact that the agency doesn't follow these cases, it's about trying to control media space by a circle of people, and in some ways in the media, there's a constant potential for this problem. I will instruct my colleague, Spevec, to study an article in the media that says that Rako Maček continues to spin and that he has mastered the media of northwestern Croatia. And this article explains how through the company MEA Media and through the company where Mrs. Maček is the wife of Mr. Maček and through her brother-in-law Robert Vesenjak, who has another company, companies are purchased, property changes, etc. So one was created in the northwestern Croatian media cartel but the agency is not responding anything, which perhaps because of the lack of information would make a man and say let's not be careful not to follow the details as they happen. But since such a case has already been pointed out in the Report, it is strange that a simple Google procedure makes available data from business Croatia which is the owner of which the company can be established in how a media cartel is created which should definitely not be allowed. I don't get in the way it came to him, where the money comes from to buy these companies. It's a question of course of these companies that are obviously extremely successful at this time of crisis. But I'm saying it's not the agency's job because she doesn't do it. But it's the agency's job to see if a media cartel has been created that buys companies through close relatives, spouses' ties, unites media space, and that's how I say it creates a cartel that shouldn't be allowed. Of course, this case is not processed at all, nor is one, two sentences dedicated to seeing how the agency checked it out. I don't want, of course, speculation to which party is close to that media cartel. But you'll assume no, from whom the wife is then known and to whom the whole story applies. But again, I say a policy that dictates the way the agency works instead of the agency working independently, that it corresponds to this Parliament and ultimately to protect consumers for which both the market and the entrepreneurs it was founded for. Until that changes, we will have, of course, cases to determine the penalties in Croatia throughout the year of one million kuna, and only yesterday we saw that the European Union punished airlines, 11 airline companies with 800 million euros. Now, this is an effective way to punish those who are not allowed to act, and in Croatia no matter what we have, this is, of course, a limiting factor that we sometimes have situations where these cases are dealt with quite slowly in Violent Courts and I hope that the agency will have powers and directly punish those who do not behave in a lawful manner. But no one has prevented the agency from warning these things through its public appearance, and warns if it was under the pressure of the former prime minister in the case of INA, to come out, it says it is not allowed to get the public, parliament on its side. None of this happened, and there can be no excuse that most of it set me up and I have to do what they set me up to do. It can't be an excuse because everyone has the right to choose a job that will work and work on which to work it. And that is why the agency in this composition cannot get SDP support for its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62574	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mrs. Olga Spevec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62575	Thank you very much. Thank you, actually, to Mr. Maras for giving me the opportunity to answer some questions that seem to be of first interest to one party here, which I have answered many times. But what is very interesting about much of what the esteemed representative Maras spoke about is the answer contained in the solution of the agency regarding the approval of the concentration of INA-MOL, i.e. MOL-INA. And if someone wanted to or wanted to read that solution, then they would understand very well the agency's activity regarding this concentration. So, the esteemed representative didn't give in to any pressure, be assured. You don't know me personally, but there are people in your party who know very well because all the time you're actually attending me as a person, on the council's composition, on the membership of the agency. I'm not a person who would have succumbed to any pressure from whatever side he came from. As far as the agency itself is concerned, we have experience which means political pressure and why two principals resigned and left before their mandate expired. By being, just so you know that I would never or will not resign the moment I know I'm doing the job that's in front of me in a professional and professional way. So, as far as the MOL itself is concerned, I'm sorry that I didn't come to your commission, because then I'd have the opportunity to explain this solution a lot more widely. And what's extra to me is I'm terribly sorry to be talking here in concentration terms, cartels, not knowing what's one thing, what's other. The law explicitly lists the Agency's powers to me, explicitly indicating what the concentration is. Concentration is reported to the agency in advance. The agency's concentration estimates. The cartel is market behaviour that the Agency assesses, price agreement and market sharing. The media cartel you're talking about is not in the Agency's jurisdiction. The media cartel you're talking about is a matter of the Media Act, not of the Competition Protection Act. So, all these experts with MBM PhDs with everything have some purpose of existence, and their purpose is to implement the laws passed by this Croatian Parliament and they know very well the difference between the work that is in their jurisdiction between the other. But let's get back to square one. So the agency doesn't have the authority to impose, neither has one. Today something in Germany is being said, imposing on one divescher entrepreneur. So, that's because he's got production 80, 90%. I can't order Končar or Agrokor because the only producer of generators in Croatia or oil in Croatia to sell it to someone or to give it to the company in two. Today, however, concentration in the world is something normal. Microsoft is one in the world, Intel is one in the world. Three manufacturers in the world are in the production of cigarettes. So the concentration is something that implies, which strengthens efficiency, competitiveness. So we don't have the authority. Only if there is an abuse can the measures that involve it be that the order to the firm, to give the order to organize several companies but it is extremely rare. As far as Agrokora is concerned, the market position of the 30 percent Consume is below any level the agency could say in advance is forbidden. The focus is even more on the new law passed by this Croatian Parliament does not say that 40% of the presummation is the ruling position. The new law says that an entrepreneur who has 40% of the ruling position can find markets in a ruling position. So it can only be done. The presummation of the ruling position no longer exists in our law, because it is in Europe because it is in America. In America and Europe, it is considered a ruling position somewhere that is speculative, between 60, 70, 80%. On a small market like the Croatian Konzum is under the permanent pasture of the agency, and the agency may not have noticed, perhaps you don't read all the media, ordered on many occasions and when PIK Vrbovac was bought, and when a retail sale was purchased in Dalmatia ordered the sale of certain shops exactly what you are talking about, not to strengthen that position, however, it is ordered to sell something before taking over. So that's what we do. This if it is thought that I would have some interest, or my husband who was recently at the Zagreb Fair where he was given overnight knows why he was fired, is in Agrokor, but it doesn't matter, my deputy is here who runs the procedures for Agrokor, I have nothing to do with it, and since the council can decide with four members, I'm not involved in making those decisions, not even in the work of professional service. But after that, no one's stopping me from seeing what the agency did. The Agency has prevented further reinforcements of Agrokor. It's definitely, if it wasn't so likely we'd be having a different conversation here today. I can tell you, I can send you all our Agrokor-related solutions and you'll see how many measures, how many measures the agency has taken against Agrokor and what the effect. The effect is that Konzum does not exceed 30%, although according to regulations it could go to 40%. That's why he could go more, of course. That is why its position on the Zagreb market is 40, or 45% also under control, but there is a Croatian market, retail is a highly competitive market, even above the market of Scandinavian, neighbouring countries. So there's competition very strong, and here I have to say I'm proud of my agency's work. Of course, it does not exclude the possibility of someone having a different opinion. As for MOL and INA, I already told you in the opening section, the procedure was transparent, the procedure was, what you're saying about the paper which car, you don't have to read that paper, because it all says in our solution. The paper the agency sent was just a warning, and the management of INA and MOL and the government to keep us out of business. We have listed in this paper three options, the sale of MOL, the sale of someone else in the system, or the withdrawal of work, or the Tiffon or the withdrawal, three options. Because someone because of their own interests placed something in the media that suits him, you were just talking about spin, I can't deny it and I don't have the will or the strength, whenever someone feels it's necessary to talk about it. Our solution shows why we chose CROBENZ, not Tiffon, for the sole reason. Market shares are not important, but what Tifon, or MOL, brought to Croatia through Tifon, is the only competition that exists, it is a quality competition. There is no competition in the prices of oil derivatives in Croatia, and we know that in the protection of competition it is a question, there is no competition in prices because it is determined by the government. The government has a system. The quality competition exists, and we didn't want to because of the Croatian consumers you're talking about to order Tiffon to sell it, because then INA would be a monopoliest in every respect. And it is Tifon who must, by his own quality, guaranteeing us by standard MOL that it will also establish a system to sell MOL, and that is why we have defined ourselves as a Croatian consumer, not to destroy one company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62576	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62577	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to warn Mrs. Spevec first that she's not telling the truth when she says the agency has nothing to do with the concentration assessment in the media. Here's your report says you're obliged to evaluate all the media concentrations that happen during the year. I'm just saying, unfortunately, you missed the concentration I warned you about. Which is why it wasn't done, I don't know. On the other hand, you said Agrokor has 30% stake, or Konzum at Croatia level. Well, you don't think I'll go shopping in Split from Zagreb. In Zagreb, this concentration is above 40% and you have ways to reduce it if you want to. Or you suggest that Croatian citizens go shopping in Slovenia or 100, 150 kilometers from Zagreb where the concentration is lower. And on the third hand, I'm glad you admitted that in your first proposal you asked INA to sell Tiffon, I'm sorry that you gave it up, and no one can convince me that there were no certain pressures to make that happen. If you made them sell Crobenz, you could have made them sell Tifon, but Hungarians, MOL didn't want to sell Tifon, and you gave in to that pressure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62578	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62579	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed director of the state agency with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Two airlines in Canada, i.e. two presidents of the Canada and the United States airlines, agreed in a telephone conversation to increase transport prices from next week. It hasn't been 15 days, both of them have been replaced, and companies have been fined $100 million. That's how market economies work. Benedikt Kotruljević also spoke about monopoly problems, and the development of market relations. The market economy has no alternative, it is the only possible efficient economy in the world economy. But the early cancer of that market economy is monopolies, and state, and mostly private. What affects the market economy? It is influenced by natural resources, material and human, as they are used, influenced by capital, influenced by technology, but mostly by the development of market relations. The degree of market relations development depends on the efficiency and efficiency of each economy. The majority of economic issues in the market economy are being addressed right on the market, and the market is a mechanism where customers and sellers interact with each other to determine the price and quantity of the product. Lower prices encourage consumption and discourage production. Prices are the most important factor in the market economy, they are the balanced wheel of the market economy. And in this part, I would point out the importance of the role of the Competition Protection Agency. The Agency for the Protection of Competition, largely in view of the size of the business, on the professionality of the business, is an important factor in the overall economy of the Republic of Croatia. The work of the agency and its effectiveness depend on the fate of many employers, many employees, depends on the fate of the Croatian economy and the Croatian future. The agency largely directs Croatia's future. Because what are the roles of the state? To promote efficiency, to promote equality and to promote macroeconomic growth and stability, and there is neither efficiency nor equality in the market economy if there is no market relationship. Is the level of market relations and competition in Croatia sufficient? It's not. And this is best felt by those who participate daily in the negotiation processes as entrepreneurs who need to negotiate the sale of their products or services every day very often are in a situation where they do not have the ability to negotiate but that they are in a position to take or leave and thus bring themselves into a very unpleasant situation. The question is very often asked, and why isn't someone making something? And then the question arises, and what about when they produce, what about it? If the market is not open to it, if it is not available to it, if the conditions are not equal to those of all, then the justification of such entrepreneurial activity shall be set out. He just mentioned a colleague of Maras Media. The other day, a diary says that one trade chain operates with the smallest margin in Croatia while another chain operates with the biggest margin. And that's not true. The business with the lowest margin purchases products from its companies and through these companies earns and calculates both rebates and margins, and the other one who has the cheapest products, pays the employees the best and directly supplies goods from all producers and pays suppliers and workers twice as much as this other. That's not the result of the game. Very often manufacturers do not talk about retail but rather talk about it on the table, your terms and conditions are such and they are determined by both sales prices and rebates and margins, and they have to pay even policy arrangements. There is no room for such behaviour in the market economy. Of course it's not forbidden to concentrate, but its abuse is forbidden as reported in the report. Well, I'm not sure we can count on our employers' awareness that their behavior depends on them and their consciousness. Their behavior should be influenced because they use every possible situation, let alone one that allows them to behave. And abuse of behavior is very common, especially in pricing. And there's a role when a ruling position is used for non-market prices. And what are the prices in Croatia? We have the most expensive food in the world. On which the Croatian man spends his salary, which is not a small average compared to the European average, which is quite good. And most of these salaries, or 98% of these receipts, spend on food, direct and phone bills. Interestingly, they are all those who have a ruling position. The richest companies in Croatia are those who have a ruling position. Apparently they're using that position to abuse her. For example, just one example, I will say exactly about the Croatian product in question. Vegeta, the same amount, costs the same package at the store once 16 kuna, and when it travels to Dubrovnik and stop in Neum, the same Vegeta costs 9 kuna. Milk twice as expensive, oil 14 kuna in Croatia, 7.5 kuna in the same store of the same owner. The vinegar instead of 6.30 is 10.5 kuna. This is a reflection of the abuse of the ruling position and there is a very important role of the agency, regardless of what it has done and what it does, we expect the agency to take advantage of all its legal frameworks, all its legal opportunities and to develop market relations that will focus on the well-being of the Croatian economy and all entrepreneurs in Croatia. Entrepreneurs are often discouraged by market conditions. Who's he gonna sell the apple to when he builds the orchard? How will they sell it, will they charge it? This just points to problems, I'm not calling the agency, it's not all the agency's role. But it points to the problems that occur in the context of the competition. So a long time ago Adam Smith said that no entrepreneur thinks about public interest and social benefits, he's just thinking about his profits. The truth is that he is also doing social benefit, but he is not aware of it and does better social benefit than he does when he wants to do it. And that's what he calls his famous "invisible hand." But we must stress that in Croatia, wholesales, banks, telecommunications and tobacco producers are very often at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with higher prices than market prices affect market behaviour and actually provide themselves with benefits that do not belong to them. It would not belong to reasonable market relations. If someone in one day gets 4000 points of sale, then you can't say he doesn't rule the position. And we need to know that Zagreb is still 1/3 of the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in a pool of support and commendation to the Agency for protecting competition, which we ask it to take advantage of all its legal options and to take measures against those who use their ruling position to achieve higher prices, but who also act in the form of cartels or price agreements on the market. And I think there are people like that that should end. The HDZ Club accepts this report, commends the agency's work, but encourages even more efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62580	Thank you very much. It's just about time to sign up for 10 minutes. At 10.54. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62581	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Director with co-workers, representatives of the government. We have before us a report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition in 2009 and it is clearly evident from it as in previous years that the most important tasks of the Agency during this reporting period were to encourage support providers to grant support in accordance with the new rules. And after that, carry out the administrative procedure of approving such programmes and issuing certain solutions. The second equally important component of the Agency's work concerns the implementation, i.e. the application of the competition protection system in practice. Furthermore, it is good for the Agency to have the power to determine the infringements of the law and it has been established, to lay down criminal measures in the legal frameworks governing this area. It should also be pointed out and commended that it is good that the procedures carried out before the Constitutional Court have the status of priorities, so they should be implemented immediately. Finally, it should be said about this report that our legislation is in line with the EU's gains, and I am sure that soon Croatia's EU accession and this area will be even better regulated and lead to positive shifts in Croatia's competition. But I want to say something about that basic segment of the market, which is consumers. From two points of view of citizens and consumers of local self-government units participating in public procurement procedures. It is in this second area where cities and municipalities have published hundreds of thousands of times a year various calls for public procurement for buying and performing works. There has been an increasingly unfair competition, one unfair competition, where a whole series of tenders appear with dumped prices from bidders and contractors at this time when there is not enough work, goes below the prices in these offers, offers goods, materials, equipment below the prices, real unfair competition, and ultimately, when the choice of a particular bidder, supplier or contractor, where the investor city, unit of local self-government or municipalities, in a number of cases there are complaints, cancelling the tender, all of what is regulated by the Public Procurement Act, which is not the subject of this point today, but is extremely important because of this competition. Because it is definitely happening that the tenders are being annulled, that the rare funds provided for the purchase of certain equipment in both public institutions and local self-government units which are required to carry out public procurement, the tenders fail, the funds secured in the given financial year are also failing and we are coming as purchasers of these jobs, the purchasers of equipment to one chaotic state. We know in the field why this is happening, we know that the fees for frogs, for public procurement, are far lower than European fees, and therefore probably suppliers, manufacturers and workers don't save time and that little money to complain about. Mostly in one unfair market environment, competitions are cancelled and projects fail, they stop, and we know how important all construction works are in these times, and the purchase of equipment of different materials. The second area to be touched, of course, and the Agency should believe that it can and will do its own role even better in the future, means in the area of public procurement, to suggest any changes to the Public Procurement Act, and in particular to these tariffs, fees, for the complainants in public procurement procedures to approach certain European standards and amounts. Secondly, I want to say something about the protection of consumers in the first place as customers of certain products and services. Children who are approaching holidays bombed by various promotional propaganda messages through the media, even houses come from different catalogues where a whole range of products are offered at different prices, often questionable quality, questionable certificates for child safety which, of course, with the help of their parents, strive to reach these products during the holidays and come. Is it possible to have the same effect here on traders, sellers of different products, toys for children? The question is to what extent we can do it. We know that there are certain almost monopolistic positions on the market of the Republic of Croatia and children as consumers, and their parents are often in an unpleasant, unloved situation when buying different products for children. I think that there should be special protection for these youngest consumers, who do not yet know what the market is, which is competition and how to resist it. I want to say something and here is an incentive by exhibiting fellow Marić about protecting the producers themselves in the competition. Here is not long staying in Kutjevo we come that the Kutjeva cellars are full of wine, that wine is very hard to sell on the Croatian market. It is almost easier on the foreign market than we do because it is through unfair competition that a whole number of traders appear, not producers but traders who shop abroad, as well as on the Croatian market of large quantities of non-quality wine, mostly wine in rinfuze. After that, it is placed in bottles and at low prices, uncompetitive sales prices on the wine products market in Croatia. While quality wines, I am talking about the example of Kutjev, but unfortunately this situation remains unsold in other parts of Croatia and is almost easier to sell abroad than on the Croatian domestic market. In the end, I want to say that protecting competition today is more important than ever. I believe that both our approximation and the recent entry into the European Union and these legal frameworks will strengthen, regulate the area of the market, competition, that the agency will react even faster and more effectively to market irregularities, and in my view, it is also important that the Agency determines and ultimately punish illegal actions in the field of competition where we have a lot, a lot of room to make even more order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62582	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62583	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, with the support of the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for this year, I would refer to one part of my colleague Huška's speech, which, in the context of the competition, also mentioned public procurement, which is definitely the subject of another observation. But certainly everything that is related to public procurement belongs to the segment of the competition. We who work and live and within the local self-government around a single particularum, which is definitely a market match especially in terms of the purchase of goods, services or activities by the work carried out, we come to a really specific situation of our colleague, Huška, which is that at low prices that are not market-friendly according to the assessments of the relevant civil engineers, there is also a post-festum of another reaction, which is a regret of all things, so I would call it something like the type of professional complainants who were not the best or the worst, even in their segments they might not have the right to appeal at all, but they are using this right, and in this way they are definitely stopping the investment and development of the market in this form, and on the other hand I dare to say they are putting themselves in a position and that they are potentially blackmailing those who are most favourable in a way that they are seeking to do part of work to stop these complaints. I say this only in the context of the existing situation when more than ever all forms of market activity are needed in Croatia, especially those related to the public sector. So, through the building as potential construction sites but also through the supply of goods and services, and thus and through this address as to how you do, but also here in the Assembly speaker, I want to draw attention to something that today is our reality. And that today perhaps more than 1000 proceedings before the Board of Appeals in the context of public procurement stand and slows down these investments, and that should be talked about and said a few words, and in the context and legislative regulations may also mean better and better-quality solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62584	Thank you. Mr. Davor Huška's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62585	You recognized exactly everything I was talking about, because you come from the environment of the local self-government unit, and probably as a whole series of colleagues and colleagues throughout Croatia, you often find yourself in front of the wall, to manage hard to provide funding for individual investments, to buy equipment, and we need to know that we are limited by budget year and because of these professional complainers, blackmailers simply stand, delay, and rarely fail. Unfortunately, the price is the strongest and almost exclusive criterion in public procurement and that is what is not good. That's definitely not good. This is something urgent to change, because it is precisely why we get contractors who go with dumped prices, who have thousands of problems when they go to construction sites, who are destroying their co-operatives, who don't pay salaries to workers who are employed by them because they went with the offer, to lower prices with the goal of getting a job. Of course certain profits come true, but at the same time they destroy everything around them. I don't think that's the goal of this Croatian government policy, or this ongoing Economic Recovery Programme, and that something needs to be done urgently in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62586	Thank you. It's Mr. Ponzimir Mršić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62587	Dear President, the esteemed director of the agency I may turn this debate a little bit into one of the end-users of the protection of competition which may, in a narrow sense, not be considered to be part of the Agency's work, or may be influenced by the work of the Agency, which are workers. We're talking here about the agency having to secure or worry about the competition being such that entrepreneurs have an equal match and compete. However, workers work for these entrepreneurs. And it was tragic to see women from Stonesky strike hunger to exercise their fundamental right, which is the right to pay and what they must pay as a tax contribution. And everything would be okay. If that were to happen because the entrepreneur really didn't work well, then here he was stuck in difficulty. However, listening and reading the situation in Stoneski, which is not an isolated case, he had a conditionally privileged position on the market, as he was allowed not to pay taxes and contributions without doing business. So it's not just a privileged position on the market when someone has a concentration. The privileged position on the market is when someone can not fulfil the obligations prescribed. And now the question is, how does an entrepreneur have to pay taxes and contributions, and I think we agree that everyone has to. But on the other hand, the key question is how the other entrepreneur doesn't have to do it. Whether it is in a privileged position on the market and whether it generates some profits and revenues that would not affect it if the competition was defined on the Croatian market. Unfortunately, we have a situation here that it all ultimately went to the burden of the market but also to the burden of the workers, because even as many workers could not achieve their right to bankruptcy because someone said there is no one to launch the bankruptcy. How can there be no one to launch bankruptcy if taxes and contributions are not paid for months? Under the law, the only minister, I repeat, is the minister who can grant the payment of the taxes. This was not consummated in the case of Kamensky, so the minister did not approve of the payment of taxes. So why didn't all the regulators on the Croatian market act and allow Kamensky workers to exercise their right to bankruptcy, to protect their rights at the Employment Service, so that they could obtain unpaid salaries so that they could re-compete on the labour market, or so they could go shopping centres or anywhere else and buy basic life supplies. Stonestone is one smaller case. What about the singer? How is it possible that Pevec remained 140 million kuna owed to the state? For years, not months, no commitment has been made to the state for years. This privileged position, unfortunately, did not result in increasing the ability and efficiency of entrepreneurs, but it came to the fact that he was not simply forced to non-restructure new methods, to introduce new products, to increase quality, to provide services because he ended up in bankruptcy. And he's left with the damaged workers again. So almost every time a game is broken for any reason, workers end up getting hurt, because if we have too much concentration on one single enterprise market, then it will certainly result in a certain number of workers being fired, or that all workers will have to be fired. And I think that, no matter what I'm likely to hear, it's not in your jurisdiction, but I think the agency has to warn on such cases. And to ask the agency how it is possible not to operate the tax administration, how it is possible that, despite the fact that the law unequivocally states that only the minister can grant a payment, we have a collection of debts according to the tax administration of all types of tax, according to the Pension Insurance Office and the Health Insurance Office, that I am not talking about suppliers. So here I'm talking about something where the state has to take care of and regulators have to make sure that revenue is charged and that it leads to two entrepreneurs competing equally on that same market, because the one who pays is not in the same equal position with the one who doesn't pay taxes and contribute. And that's one big question. Always, I repeat every time a market game is broken they end up dead at the end of the day. Therefore, if the Competition Protection Agency works, and if we come to a fair match, then we will come to the indirect protection of workers' rights. Today in Croatia, unfortunately, no one cares about workers. Workers are expendable goods. I need you, I got you, I'll pay you if someone makes me do it and then you end up on the street. The second question is support. The Agency shall give its opinion when certain types of support are being made, when a programme is being done, and then support is being given to the programme, but unfortunately I am afraid that the Agency has failed to control how these support has been used. You have a whole series of cases where the state has been converting, for example, its claims into ownership stakes in these companies and that is defined as a form of support, but then it should be accepted and the restructuring programme accepted. Almost always this restructuring programme has not been implemented, almost always, and in the vast majority of cases, these companies or today are still in difficulty or are unfortunately bankrupt. What happened? It happened that the support that was converted into ownership ended in a bankruptcy that the state could never or would not charge. So I'm not against the fact that the state continues to use that possibility more than before, that the claims are converted into equity, but the question is why has not been controlled by the restructuring programme, because if the restructuring programme was valid and the agency estimated that it has a market sense, then someone should have controlled that restructuring programme and perhaps, it would have saved jobs, and maybe it would have been saved some of the money that the state has converted into its own share. And not to mention that part of that ownership stake has been converted by the state as a debt to income tax, which is not the income of the state budget, but the income of local self-government units. Therefore, no one has asked those units of local self-government for it or not, the state has done so at the expense of the budget of the units of local self-government, without the control of the restructuring programme has done double damage, because the income that was due to fall under income tax did not fit into urban, municipal and county budgets, and other damage is that the non-control and non-implementation of the restructuring programme has led to the bankruptcy of these companies and today missing jobs that should have been saved in such a way. Therefore, I call on you, your directors and agency as a whole, to begin to understand the obligation to protect the competition in the Croatian market and to always warn all participants of the competition, and the tax administration is also indirectly a participant of the competition, or a market participant that they must act to ultimately protect workers' rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62588	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62589	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mrs. Director with her associates, colleagues and colleagues. We can also have laws, we can have institutions, but what it's worth if those institutions don't implement those laws. We do not need a Commissioner of the European Union to tell us, as he told us yesterday, we ourselves know very well. So the Competition Protection Agency is also a very important institution, but in order for it to successfully do its job it would at least sometimes, at least sometimes have to oppose the powerful, no matter how ungrateful it is. Of course, you can say on your part, and why should we be the only professionally and correctly doing our job in an universally corrupt environment what kind of Croatian society is? How is it that the parties here in Parliament, most of whom are customerelic, can ask us to work by law, and probably your notebook is full of names from different options that sometimes asked for some kind of service. And you know it very well. And probably those who say so today know very well whether they praise you or are moderately critical of you. I'm the only thing I ask of all the leaders of the institutions, which is to work in accordance with the law. And often when I ask them for something, they always say they can, but only according to the law. So I'm also one of the few who always has to wait for something and the most banignant thing to come true. But okay, that's why we're fighting to keep everything legal. But let's put the principle of things aside because the problem is in particular. I'm not talking about mayonnaises here, I'm not talking about powdered milk no matter how important these things are. Because you can always say that you haven't read about it, that it could have been promoted, that you've done something that the results have been achieved. That's why I'm gonna put one thing in focus that couldn't have gone unnoticed. I'm sick of talking about her in person. But maybe enlighten me, you might say you're finally wrong, Mr. Pancic, and then I'll eat my degree, not the truth of law school, not the Faculty of Economics, but the Politoligia in public. Because I'm wrong, because everything I've been saying and putting my reputation on the sidelines of the Croatian public because it's going to prove me wrong. And you're mean, I can't expect that from people from the departments of power because first or foremost they don't know or are political people, so they have to represent the things they represent or are deeply embedded in the work that's been going on, and I can't expect either of the state's attorneys who were presenting their report yesterday and who I've also pointed out that problem, which will say that he wouldn't comment on specific things. And that particular thing means one 15 billion kuna or 2 billion euros that in the last five, six years, untraceablely disappears. Irregular, irrational, or we could use another term. I'm talking about the biggest infrastructure project in Croatia, means road construction. So that's not painting the 40 million kuna tunnel, that's not abuse of car use and that kind of nonsense that's being published and sanctioned by the institutions. Here I'm talking about the core, about the head of the problem, which is that all the contests, all the contests, or almost all of them, and that means 90 and a few percent of the contests were staged. All right, if two consortiums were formed, let's call them one way or another, two groups of senior devision companies, junior devision and a third of some division that so jumped in from Croatian companies or foreign companies. It's good that our domestic companies are working, thank God. But I guess the result would be lower prices and a sustainable system first. And what have we achieved? We have achieved that the entire road infrastructure is compromised. She's about to collapse, and that's why we're thinking about giving a concession on those roads that we built because we spent money because we're in charge, because we have to pay back those debts. Companies, construction firms are at a loss. If the goal was to prepare them for an international match, that goal was not achieved. Because those in other markets, BiH, Albania, Montenegro are working for half the price they were doing here. It's about the duty of the Croatian state not to speak. And that someone will have to come back. What's the matter? The boys played a game. We know who these people are and we know who the directors are and how they formed those two at least two groups. All right, they've formed. But let's see what they did then. The competitions then agreed, then prices went up because in the end of the first year 2004, the price was twice as high in 2005 to grow to 3 and 4 times in 2007 and 2008. And specifically, let's take an example of the River-Zagreb, if that's possible, and that's what I'm asking, and I'd like someone to deny me. So, the Public Procurement Act, even international banking institutions have credited it, so there are also their rules of conduct. One wins, and everybody works. How is that possible? So 6, 7 companies compete for 6 shares, one company, I won't name it, it gets all six shares, and then all those companies that were competing with that one company, which competed with a higher price on all those 6 shares eventually come in as subcontractors. And then they also take some third subcontractors, and that third one is now the most mentioned that they've ever said, and the Secretary of State has, for example, told that subcontractor's company that they've never heard of, and that subcontractor finally became another firm on the whole of that stock in a monetary sense. And I'm trying to figure that out, but to this day, no one has been able to tell me. People who have been in the system for 20, 30 years on these jobs say it's impossible, or it's law enforcement. Of course, I don't blame the agency here. Whether you were taking it or not, at least you couldn't hear it in public. And on this particular case, Olaf came in, and the police came in, and the State's Attorney's office is doing something, but the fact is that up until today, prices have been piling up on some of the stocks. Let us take an example that we were cheaper to break through two pipes of tunnels and equip one pipe of tunnels than to equip this other tube of tunnels. And where's the competition? Of course, there are also foreign companies involved, possibly because foreign factors don't insist too much because everyone was taking their share of the cake. But the fact is that we're over-indebted, that the roads didn't end up towards Dubrovnik, the Pelješki bridge and the like, and the debts would only be charged. This isn't just about the agency, this is about all of us. We've made many appointments here. And we who sit here in the Croatian Parliament. We can ask the agencies to work one way or another, but the fact is that there is no political will to deal with corruption and organised crime. Maybe it will be, maybe now the space is opening, then it'll probably be easier for you, too. But as long as you have your own bookbook with names from these or those who've been looking for something, you're relatively safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62590	Thank you. We have one replica. Ms. MP and Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62591	Thank you very much. You spoke to your colleague, fully justified and justified, about a single segment, about a construction market or about road construction as an area that might need to be explored if the agency has not explored and I have no replica in that section, on the contrary. I support you both in today's and yesterday's debate. And I would just like to remind myself that sometimes a partially justified debate of MPs can help prevent abuse, because in time those who laughed when you waved at a corrupt octopus responded to that, of course those sitting in the government, would probably have been prevented a lot and today the entire Croatian public would not be engaged, read texts, spectacular texts, about spectacular millions and about the involvement of top Croatian officials in these stories. However, I would only like to rephrase to you because you did not purposely but may have seen political responsibility for such events by chance. You singled yourself out as one of those consistent ones, which I also confirm that you are consistent, but you are definitely not the only one on the political Croatian scene. There are the largest number of those who would gladly engage in this struggle and who want to promote a systematic fight against abuse. And I, on behalf of these many others who are not defined by either the political option, by origin, by faith, by the nation but simply by life's commitment, want to say that it's time for us all to start listening to each other and to have a positive and concrete impact on the fact that bad things don't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62592	Thank you. Answer Mr. Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62593	Thank God, Mrs. Antunovic, of course I'm not the only one. It would be a tragedy for both this country and this society if that were the case, it's just absolutely not true. But I've just deliberately highlighted this one problem that you can't possibly know about. We could've talked about Brodosplit here, we could've talked about 4, 5 other state-owned companies that people from different political parties were opening. But the best thing is for everyone to talk about what he was talking about and what he was working on. And the problem with all of us is responsibility for me, too. And I consider myself responsible because I participated not only in those four years as a member of the government, but also in the 2nd term of office of the Parliament. It's that politics has collapsed so much, that in public it's become so much so that you can speak today I don't know what, but for a good part of the public we're all equal. And why are we equal? Because we let politics come down to what. In Croatian politics there is no more ideology, there is no more politics, there are only public competitions and there are land redesigns especially in the coastal part. Unfortunately, that is what Croatian politics is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62594	We have one correction, Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62595	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to correct the misquote of fellow Pancic when he said when he said the word and I think he meant road construction, that he found that all public tenders were set up or at least about 95%. The government has given a clear signal through the programme of measures and the fight against corruption that this evil intends to account for regardless of who the political options are and which political side they belong to. But it is irresponsible for all those who are in public and private procurement procedures, which are related to road construction, and these are not only Croatian roads, Croatian highways, but also a large part of other institutions for the county city and other levels, which are truly very dedicated, do this job responsibly. Just before I talked about the difficulties of another species when, through such unfair competition, dumped prices, or through the mourning process, it is caused by problems and the possibility of such realization. But it is clear that through the new measures of the Law on Public Procurement, transparency, through the central system, the Croatian government has implemented a large part of the procedures that both corruption and other actions that are inappropriate are seeking to prevent. And for that reason, I protest who says and who you said that all public procurement and all competitions in Croatia are corrupt. And when it comes to public procurement and Croatian road construction, which is really not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62596	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, Ms Olgica Spevec, President of the Competition Protection Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62597	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's the bottom line. So in a situation where there is a great mistrust in the work of institutions, of course it is not easy to be at the head of an institution. And so all the criticism I get is probably part of this general relationship with the state and its institutions, and I understand that. But this agency while I'm at it's head will work exclusively in accordance with the law. And there are no notes, there are no calendars containing any names or last names. The agency's work is transparent, we're open to meetings with all those who can give us information about the phenomena that are disrupting the competition, but on those phenomena that we can act in accordance with the law. The agency has very strict rules, and there is also a possibility of a lawsuit on every one of our decisions. So the illegal activity of the agency, regardless of what we might think, would be very nice to intervene where prices are high, where margins are high, where this is, where that is. Or there were other suggestions. These illegal decisions are finally pounding on us and you'll see again in the report then you'd very much see what the work of the agency that the decisions of the courts actually led to the annulment of its decisions. So as far as this is concerned, so within the scope of power, within jurisdiction we're going to like it whether or not we're going to do it. When it comes to public procurement phenomena, both of which were discussed by respected parliamentary deputies, the agency has its part of the job and should have more especially now that the new law has given us the opportunity to impose punishment or release from the punishment of the penitent. The penitent are those of whom we can get information when it comes to agreements, about prices, whether they are low, high, whatever the price, or about the division of the market, or about some of those aspects that we say can be considered a cartel action. So I invite all of you who have these problems to bring this information to the agency. The agency has acted in some cases as cartels from newspaper publishers, including some other publishers or other bus carriers based on newspapers. So we're open. Bring it, see what we can do without any continuance and no doubt that we will not work in advance in accordance with the law and in accordance with our powers. What I would ultimately like to point out is the question raised by the esteemed representative Adlesic is the question of the future. Therefore, by joining the European Union, the Croatian Agency continues to implement the Competition Protection Act. Part of the support control passes to the competence of the European Commission, but it becomes part of the European Network of the Competition Protection Agency where it must co-operate and negotiate with colleagues from other institutions and the European Commission. Again there was a mistake, the European Commission controls entrepreneurs on the European market when it comes to entrepreneurs from several countries or with violations of laws that have so-called laws. European dimension. So we have much bigger assignments ahead of us than we are now. And we will, of course, try to do it, but for that we need more resources and more people and more education. I, however, have today, Doctors of science and other experts, is not enough. We should have more. And otherwise, this need and knowledge should be developed in society, then some of these discussions would probably fall off in terms of the Agency's activities and actions. As far as structural funds are concerned, Mrs Adlesic is right again. We will not be able to use the Structural Funds unless the projects we send to Europe are set up in accordance with state aid rules. So, simply every entrepreneur or development agency, whoever proposes projects or prepares projects today, can come into the agency, let us consult to see what is not to be laughed at. Because that adjustment period will pass quickly and we'll get into a situation where we won't actually be able to withdraw all that money that's at our disposal. So from that point of view, the agency as a consultant is some new function of hers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62598	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the Annual Report on the work of the 2009 Competition Protection Agency. The applicant is the Competition Protection Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report on the work of the 2009 Competition Protection Agency is hereby adopted. Let's please get involved and vote on the report. The result? This year's Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency was accepted by most votes, 81 votes for, 3 abstentions and 38 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62601	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. I welcome you on behalf of the Governing Council of HINE and all employees. So I am Ante Drpić and I am a member of the Governing Council of HINA and I come from the ranks of employees. Under the Law on HINA, the Administrative Council has an obligation to its founder, i.e. Every year, the Croatian Assembly is provided with the Work Report, so let me explain to you in the shortest lines some of the highlights of this Report that you have all received on your benches. So, I'd be delighted if I could repeat today's closing sentence from my last year's address to you when I told you that the HINA reporting period ended with 311,000 kuna extra revenue over the expenses allocated to the reserve. That was for the period, for 2008. But because of the changed operating conditions that have happened to our agency, unfortunately I can't say that for this reporting period that we have despite the rationalization on each segment of business we have ended up with a minus of 2.8 million kuna. This minus HINA covered its own funds with reserves that we have created over the past few good years and at the expense of capital. The consequences of the recession are also difficult to hit our national news agency with the potential danger of making the long-term action questionable and its survival in the present form. If you keep track of the situation in the media, you know that no one is flowering roses, and even the world's best media houses like the BBC these days are faced with the dissatisfaction of employees and strike due to the reduction of material and other rights. And exactly their countries are trying to find ways to help them. Namely, all key groups of users of information services and services of HINA are media, not media users, state bodies, and state budget users suffer the effects of the crisis, and in the absence of other answers, they require a rigorous reduction of costs for HINA, leading to an emergency reduction of subscriptions, even in some cases to the termination of multi-annual contracts with HINA. This translates into pressuring the financial difficulties of the media in order to preserve the basic human beings are making a logical move for them and canceling between themselves and HINA. However, let me ask myself whether this is a logical move and the right path and whether the media in Croatia can do without a public agency. In my court, I can't, and as proof, I state that almost every day in almost all the media that canceled us we find HINA's news in the original or altered form, and that is also proof that HINA is invisible but highly necessary and irreplaceable in our media space. Businesses and financial movements led in 2009 to a decrease in HINA's income from a commercial subscription contract by 17% compared to 2008, and public finances' problems also had an adverse impact on HINA's business performance in the part of the total subscription revenue. In such circumstances, despite the reduction of expenditure by 3.3 million kuna and the rationalisation of HINA's operations could not be avoided from ending business year 2009 with a loss of 2.8 million kuna. The Governing Council decides that the loss expressed, as I have already set out earlier, is covered by the reserve and capital. With the maximum rationalisation of the business, HINA has carried out its financial obligations neatly, we have no debts to any supplier, salaries and contributions we pay regularly and no one is fired. In 2010, HINA's business began with the creation of the Agency's reconstruction programme, as essential objectives we set out to confirm the character of HINA as an independent news agency, to create assumptions of long-term and stable business, to restructure it as a function of development, and ultimately to ensure assumptions for new employment. During this reporting period, the three-year period of HINA strategic development projects was also completed. Like all other development projects, they have been achieved exclusively from the Agency's own revenues. The current changed business circumstances have a significant impact on the rhythm of the further development of HINA as well as on the realization of the largest start-up media monitoring project. I would like to point out that, during 2009 and 2010, a system for semantic analysis of text as the only one in the region has been fully implemented in the media monitoring project. It is a system for searching the content, whose application has been mostly reserved so far on so-called. Great languages, and HINA has assured its users and its country that there is a Semantic analysis of the text in its native Croatian language as well. The HINA Development Strategy was discussed a few months ago by the Administrative Council of HINA and adopted a development strategy for the period 2011 to 2014, which may explain more to you if Mrs. Director needs it, and I can tell you that this strategy is being implemented at three levels of human, organisational and technological level and that it will take place in parallel. This is, in our opinion, a condition for modern HINA to become a central information place in the country. And that would be all from me in this introduction, and Mrs. Director and I are here to answer every question. And I also use this opportunity to invite you on behalf of the Board of Directors and all employees to the celebration of the 20th anniversary of HINA, which will be held on 17 November at 17:00 in the Croatian State Archives, so in our neighbourhood, in Marulic Square. We hope for your arrival and expect support for HINA, which is regardless of these objective and subjective difficulties that I have now presented to you, and from which we do not run, we can still consider it a good Croatian product, and an indigenous Croatian product. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62602	Thank you. The committees? Information, information, media, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and political system. Does the government's representative want to further explain? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed representatives of HINA, Madam Secretary of State. So here is the report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA for the period from May 2009 to April 2010. This work report shall contain a report on the work of the administration, on financial operations, on development projects, and on the work of the HINA editorship. The report shows that HINA’s operating conditions in 2009 and early 2010 are unfavourable, and these are the consequences of recession, and these consequences are difficult to hit by the National News Agency. All three key groups of users of information services from HINA services, which are the media, as the gentleman has already said before, non-media users, state authorities and state budget users, therefore suffer and the effects of the recession, and in the absence of other answers, seek a solution in a rigorous cost reduction, leading to a request for an extraordinary reduction in the subscription, and in some cases, here has also led to the termination of multi-annual contracts. Such negative movements have led to a decrease in HINA's income from commercial subscription contracts by 17% compared to 2008, and unfortunately in 2010, this trend continued, and even up to 20% is expected. State authorities and other users of the state budget are in particular, and this is evident from the report, that they are particularly relevant as users of information services and services, however, here in these negative terms financially, despite a reduction in expenditure of around 3.3 million kuna and a fair rationalisation of business, HINA has unfortunately not been able to avoid the loss of 2 million 892 thousand and 602 kuna in business 2009. At the meeting, however, the Administrative Council accepted at the 28th session and decided that this loss would be covered by reserves and capital. In addition to the maximum rationalisation of HINA's business, HINA has properly implemented all its financial obligations, and, as the gentleman has pointed out, there is no debt to any supplier. In such difficult financial conditions, HINA almost finished the Media Monitoring project. So despite the financial situation, she managed to maintain and in some segments even expand her information services and almost finish the Media Monitoring project that she can deliver daily to all her users. I think it is important here to note that HINA's news is objective and accurate in what we advocates in this high house every day can be convinced that the basic news and information from the political and public sector that HINA is legally required to broadcast daily is a good basis for HINA's users to obtain an objective and factual picture of the events and events in our country's political and public life. And here's why this HINA needs to be supported, and we at the HDZ Club really do, and we support HINA in these efforts to do its legally established job as best as possible. So, even better than boredom. HINA's management in 2010 started with the reconstruction of the Agency's programme with important objectives, so the important objectives of this restructure are to confirm the character of HINA as an independent news agency, to create assumptions of a long-term stable business, to restructure it as a function of development and ultimately to ensure assumptions for new employment. The reconstruction of HINA includes rationalising business, raising production quality, expanding the market for current services and services, creating new services and services for current users and new services and services for new users. By the end of this year, and this is evident from this report, that HINA plans to prepare a restructuring funding plan in which the plan will be visible amount and resources needed after years of realization of this project. As for the HINA development projects during this three-year period, so from 2008 to 2010, she completed almost all of her strategic planned projects, and I think it is necessary to stress that the overall system for the semantic analysis of text as the only one in the region. It is a system whose application has mostly been realized in the world so far. big languages. What is already mentioned here here when the promoter said that HINA also prepared a strategic plan for its development for the period 2011 to 2013 and I believe that perhaps in the next report we might have some indications, a little more detailed indication of this strategic plan. So, what's planned for the next two years. When we talk about editorial work, I can therefore say that despite these difficult financial conditions, HINA has maintained its daily production and, moreover, by internal reorganisation of the editorial system in the past reporting period and increased the production. This year, therefore, the number of news from the country and the world has been markedly increased. I think it is still important to say that HINA is, despite all the difficulties she has encountered in the last 20 years, and especially at this time of the global crisis, that we can say that HINA has succeeded in the Croatian product. The continuity and further development of the Agency's information services was some basic objective of action over the past period. Which means providing highly professional information to which media and other non-media users can rely with confidence and reliability both abroad and abroad. I wouldn't be talking about the financial report here. I'd be more specific about some numbers. So we saw that HINA, the report shows that HINA was doing business at the end of 2009. That the deficit is forecasting at the end of business in 2010, but here in the overall report it is visible that HINA in, I will say, in one good way overcomes all the problems she is facing, so here it is visible that she has also reduced wages and has done a number of other measures to overcome this crisis period. In this year HINA marks the 20th anniversary of its existence. I wish you on behalf of the HDZ Club a lot of success in the work here in both the first 20 years and the next. I believe that in a successful way, you will overcome this crisis and that HINA will continue to succeed in achieving its goals, which eventually led to it. I want you to solve all your financial problems, which I don't doubt because I think it's both HINA's and HINA's administrative council that they've shown they can do their job and that they can deal with these financial difficulties. Finally, I point out that the HDZ club will support the Croatian news agency's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62604	Thank you. The HSS club is Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. MPs and MPs, respected proposings. As regards the circumstances in which HINE handled the report, the recession was apostrophe of one of the most unfavourable factors that led to the potential threat to the survival of the news agency. Namely, all three key groups of users of its services and services, media, non-media users, state bodies and state budget users are affected by the consequences of the crisis, and cut costs drastically. In addition, all Croatian media who are users of agency information services and services are in an extremely difficult position. The majority are operating with growing losses, and according to official data, their total revenues were reduced by between 20% and 30% compared to 2008. For financial reasons, according to the reasons we have received since June 2009, 14 media subscribers have broken up several years' contracts with HINA among them and two of the biggest newspaper publishers, and everyone else has requested an extraordinary reduction in the price of the subscription. Many have stopped using services and services that are not crucial to their services. It is similar with non-media users, so everything listed in 2009 led to a decrease in revenues from the commercial subscription contract by 17% compared to 2008 with the continued trend in 2010 and the report said that the annual reduction of revenues could be up to 20% compared to 2009 despite HINA signing contracts with 16 new users, but under more unfavourable financial conditions than in previous years. About 50% of HINA's total revenues are made by state authorities and other state budget users, and public finances have adversely affected its business outcome. In 2008, this total subscription amounted to 11.6 million kuna, while in 2009, 17.9 million kuna was paid, while the 2010 state budget envisioned 17.6 million kuna. Although HINA reduced expenditures by 3.3 million kuna, the business year 2009 ended with a loss of 2.9 million kuna decided by the administrative council covered by reserves and capital. It concerns the fact that even when the 2010 financial plan was adopted, it was expected that this year's business outcome would be even more unfavourable than the fact that it is going to be taken to prevent it, there is no precise response from the HINA Administration. In addition, in 2009 and 2010, when establishing the amount of the contractual obligation against HINA in the state budget, there is a lack of a prescribed way of preparing the draft annual contract by the financial committee in which representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Culture, member of the Governing Council and director of HINA are found to be relying mainly on money from the state budget, which is long-term unsustainable. However, according to the report, the Media Monitoring that has been developing for more than three years is almost completed, allowing the founder to monitor and analyse the public media through the use of HINA services which is much cheaper than those paid by state authorities and other state budget users for years to other providers of such services. But this option, as the report says, was only interested in the Ministry of Justice, as well as in the external sexes and European integrations. For 2007, the project was due to bring income of 40 million kuna to HINA by 2012, and to date it has still been operational. The delay in the realisation of this service is bad because it could bring new income, thus reducing the planned deficit. I must say, however, we are surprised why the HINAs take so long to establish such a service since we know that there are already a number of years of companies offering media monitoring and doing so successfully without such a sophisticated system. The concern is that in part of the report on HINA development projects, it is noted that the current operating circumstances will have a significant impact on the realization of the largest start-up project of the national media base that has slowed down. It is good that the project fully implements the Semantic analysis system as the only one in the region, whose application has been reserved only for so far. big languages. The system is that it is particularly important to highlight the result of a range of brains, since it was created by the community of experts of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing and the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Zagreb. The name HINA, and thus Croatia as the only country in the region has the linguistic computer ability to automatically read and sort publicly available content in Croatian and other Slavic languages of Southeast Europe. In 2010, HINA's management started to develop a restructuring programme that includes business rationalisation, improvement of production quality and the introduction of new services and services, and the expansion of the market. An analysis of expenditure and revenue has been carried out as well as the performance of services and services, and a methodology for testing the needs of the market has been developed. There is a programme to be developed to streamline or optimise the production of current services and services that HINA must provide under the law. HINA has also developed a strategic development plan for the period 2011 to 2013 and the strategy is based on the development of agency activity and the creation of new, independent and interrelated information services which have their foothold in the new media in order to make its daily production in real time in text, sound, visual and visual sound format accessible to users. The aim is to develop new systems that will ensure public, simple, cheap and reliable availability of all media content. The objective and timely information of citizens is a prerequisite for the further development of democracy and for the inclusion of this media era. HINA as can be read in the report on this intention to respond to the conditions for the establishment of a general availability of a media database in which the recent and historical contents of public journals are linked. In this regard, co-operation has been established with the Lexicographic Institute of Miroslav Krleža since 2008 in order to create a national public record database. The perspective can also be seen in collaboration with the Croatian State Archives, the National and University Library and similar public institutions as well as cross-border cooperation on projects with related databases in the region and beyond. In 2009, total revenue of HRK 33.8 million and 16.11% less than in 2008, resulting from a reduction in revenues from the sale of services and financial revenues. The expenditure totalled €36.7 million, which is 8.23% less than in 2008. With the need to say that 5.74% are lower than planned expenditures for 2009. The 2009 result is a loss of 2.9 million kuna and the Administrative Council adopted a financial report on business in 2009 and decided to cover the loss from other reserves and capital. As for the 2010 financial plan, it concerns the planned loss. Namely, the planned total revenue is 30.5 million kuna, with the revenue from the service user expected by 22.14% less revenue than planned revenues for 2009. In addition, the total planned revenue for 2010 is 12.21% lower than the planned revenues for 2009. It also concerns that 58.23% of planned revenues are planned by means of a common subscription contract while the planned revenue from the service users is 41.77%. Therefore, HINA receives more than half of its income from the state budget and without new services, it is difficult to increase the number of other users. The planned expenditure for 2010 is €35.2 million, resulting in less than € 4.7 million compared to lower income. Since the total expenditure planned is 9.44% lower than the planned expenditure for 2009 it is evident that it is trying to streamline business, but the deficit shows that it is still not enough. At the moment the media space increasingly takes yellow HINA remains credible because it conveys news of events without comment and objectively. Let me just remind you of the circus that took place on commercial media this summer. It came from a commentator who misread the verdict. It's about the probationary sentence of Predrag Matvejevic. Finally, a pillar of shame before the international public was impaled by the Republic of Croatia so that after a number of European intellectuals began to sign a public protest letter, they found out that it was last year's snow and no danger of prison for the writer mentioned, since he had passed the deadline of trials. As our people say, "the rocking hills were born of a mouse," but a great halabuca rose. It was protested by Umberto Eco, and one European embassy even offered asylum. Here is an example of what uncritical and unobstructed journalism can lead to in connection with the elemental ignorance and surface when, without knowledge of the subject about which it is written, hasty conclusions are drawn which, like a snowball, trigger an avalanche in which our country's reputation, Croatia, has suffered this time. HINA was and remains a reliable news service, and its journalists without their own observations continue professionally to inform the Croatian public on the main five questions – who, what, where, when and why someone said something or something happened. The only thing HINA isn't the first to bring news anymore. It's been passed by numerous Internet portals. Journalists of HINA are not equipped with laptops, wireless Internets, vehicles, mobiles, which in our opinion would significantly facilitate and certainly speed up the assembly of news that will be timely, not as often happens several hours after the event. Then no media needs to share the news anymore because they have it themselves. We remember the time when HINA journalists were always the first, the first to publish the news, and then all the other media transmitted it. We'd like to see HINA come back to that level of assignment. HINA today is not competitive on the market, so its business is covered by the spending of the reserves intended for development. Last year, HINA lost contracts with two of the biggest newspaper publishers, and the subscription cancelled four of the top five daily newspapers. With the cancellation of the subscription of Croatia's biggest publishers, HINA's dramatic declines in revenues, but also its impact on the media scene. It certainly destroys her position as a public service. Despite the ungrateful circumstances in which HINA operates today, its value is unquestionable, but the question is raised whether it is managed in the best possible way or perhaps better. No matter how many reserves we have in HSS according to this Report, we will especially vote in favour of its adoption by believing that the administration will take seriously our well-intentioned warnings and remove all the gaps observed in HINA's past business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62606	Thank you. HNS-A representative club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richemergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62607	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed rapporteurs of the report. Another Annual Report of the Croatian News Agency, which the Croatian Parliament has always considered as one of the important elements when we talk about public good. In modern times, possession of information in itself is extremely important, and the provision of information is certainly a large space in which such disorders can sometimes mean even obtaining or losing power. It is obvious that some have understood this, and then in media space, processes are happening that are trying to manipulate it. HINA is the public well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and its value is even higher at the time when it was assigned the task seems neither wrong nor obliged to take on such an extremely valuable archival structure that has been created in the news for decades. I say neither guilty nor indemnity because it is obvious that this process cannot be fully involved, because it is completely dependent on the government, it is completely dependent on the means that it has been promised, which HINA has not come to, has not come entirely and has not been able to realise such a valuable and large project as it announces that it is lagging behind and that it will not be possible to carry out as it has been established in its own time by the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HINA. The fact is, this is the management and this administration actually inherited this deal and they couldn't have done much to change it. But also the fact that it's too thin, too weak to hear a voice from HINA that would trouble the issue, and that shy reference in the reports over the last two years is obviously not enough to show that the Emperor is naked. It is clear that HINA is at risk in its functioning not only for financial reasons, but primarily because of very unfavourable operating conditions and that there is a trend that is extremely negative and that can almost turn HINA into a new "Vjesnik" which is the exhaustion of HINA to the extreme limits, the promotion of certain processes in HINA that are not good, and on the other hand the endangerment of HINA's elemental function as a news agency, because this is the consequence of all that I mentioned earlier. When we look at the second year in a row, the share of own revenue in relation to the budget has fallen significantly from the budget, and this has been indicatively said for the financial year 60, 60-40, or 40-60 in favour of the budget, during 2010, there was a further distortion of that relationship, and it was about 30% of its own funds, 70% of the budget, in the total amount of HINA business for the first 9 months of this year. It is a very bad trend, because it brings HINA to full dependence on the government, and we know that the government is the product of the political will of the majority, and that it is a space for manipulation. Politically, of course, manipulation, because information management is sometimes an extremely important method, an extremely important lever, and how important it will be in the coming year is already the fact that HINA herself mentions in her documents that 2011 is the year of the election, and that this will be a particularly challenging time for her too. What is happening today with the Vjesnik that has been exhaling, and whose agony we have been following for a long time, without any will of the founders, that this issue is resolved, unfortunately fate and HINA is possible if the founders' representatives do not respond, but in a way that will allow long-term implementation of the strategic plan which has been discussed here by a representative of the administrative council, who has been adopted, which contains a number of quality and good solutions, but which is due to the fact that the owner has not shown and gives absolutely no guarantee that it will be possible to implement this strategic plan in fact under a large questionnaire. If the last HINA, therefore, ended in 2008 with a certain profit of over 300 thousand kuna, in 2009 ended with 2.9 million kunas of loss, it is obvious that HINA has been eating its substance for the second year in a row. And it is obvious that this trend can only lead to further endangering all functions of HINA, including those of a fundamental, thus providing information public service. The human relations in HINA have been significantly disrupted, and we know that because various letters, accusations, strained relationships with the working council are already a general matter, which every club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament knows about. Whether there are certain clan tensions and battles for better positions, whether there are indications, the desire to master HINA in one way or another from political different buses is difficult to say, and perhaps it is incorrect here and evaluate, but that this danger exists and that HINA can turn into a political toy that is clear. The Croatian Parliament has a certain obligation as founding to prevent such things, and it is obvious that there are three major challenges for us when it comes to the development of a public information service to which the Croatian Parliament will have to provide quality and long-term answers, that is also the question of Croatian Radio Television, both Vesnik and HINA. But it's no accident that the most difficult situation is recorded right in public services. HINA will soon celebrate the 20th anniversary. There are little two decades of work of an important institution that played an extremely important role in raising awareness in the 1990s, and I would say self-resistance, but also the pride of the people in Croatia, but after 20 years, the balance that is imposed as a conclusion is not good. We've already heard something about how competitive HINA is today on the information market. Since mid-2009, when particularly intense corruption affairs have erupted, when information space is actually extremely important for those who are fast, high-quality, professional, who come quickly to information and send them away, how has HINA responded to this challenge? It is not among the first to report, it is not among those who are exclusive and it probably affects its position on the market, when it comes to the services it provides to its users, which it provides to those who have subscribed to its services. Is HINA's strength in human technical potential to reverse this situation and to function better and to be more proactive on the market? I'm sure there is, because HINA is a system that's been built for 20 years, it's not something that was created the day before yesterday, it's not something that was created without any tradition, and Croatian journalism and media space are not without strength and tradition. The large projects HINA announces are extremely important and this pilot project, which is being tested today by several important state institutions, is one of them, but if we do not understand the importance of preserving the national cultural treasure that has been transferred to HINA through the Vesnik's documentation, so a large database of information, we seem to be in a position that we are irresponsiblely treating our own cultural heritage, because the information system, or the Vjesnik database, has been created for decades, is certainly part of our cultural heritage. Let's take a look at the business report, and we'll see that there are major disturbances over planned revenues. If the revenues for 2009 have failed no less than 16%, which is an absolute amount of about 4 and a half million kuna, then it is clear that some, and among them the basic functions of HINA, suffered and suffered. If we also look at a list of those we call subscribers to HINA services, it will be interesting to for example. that from the entire Croatian academic community, if you exempt a few institutes only 2 faculty members of the Zagreb University are found to be eligible to be on the list of users of HINA services. That's not good. Equally, only 2 of more than 500 towns, municipalities and counties are listed as HINA subscribers and are Zagreb and Rijeka. Is it possible that 20 counties and more than 500 municipalities and cities do not see benefits from the use of HINA services? Or is HINA insufficiently proactive in communicating with these potential users of its services in attracting them, i.e. long-term bargaining? We see from the strategic documents that HINA will continue to provide free service to certain important institutions, or elements, I would also say civil society between them and national minorities. That's, of course, commendable. And HINA provides a whole range of services without any compensation, pro bono, a large number of users. But I'd be happier if HINA would also serve these segments of civil society in a way that appears more information from these segments. Information on the work of minority organisations and civil society organisations has been completely marginalised in the entire HINA Corps of Public Information. I don't think that's good, and I think it's a space where it can develop further. Especially since users of services are respected government institutions such as the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Office then I do not see unfortunately the Office for National Minorities, and it should be there. It is also good co-operation with the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. In this space, not only are they users of HINA's services but they are constantly in communication with HINA we see a space to increase the number of relevant information on the development of democracy, strengthening civil society, positions of national minority communities and everything they create and therefore give to Croatian society. The HNS-HSU club due to the situation in HINA in 2009 and the indication that the situation will not change significantly in 2010 will remain in the vote on this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62608	Thank you. SDP club, Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62609	Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government and HINA. Here, let me also refer to this report on behalf of the SDP club. First, I'd like to say a few words about the council itself. Everyone here has identified almost similar problems, it can be seen from financial indicators, programming defects, and beyond, they just have different conclusions. And I'm offering, so to speak, one look that's a little older than all that. I'm offering to watch what they're going to see when it started, how it started to develop, and when what started to fall. So we have 20 years of HINA history, we have 20 years in which the first couple of years of course she stepped up and couldn't even satisfy the way it was big news agencies, i.e. the information services of some Western countries could, but then she began to catch up and for a while she became a well-reputed public service that grew up and then eventually somewhere out there in the 2000s and could sign a contract like this with the government that this was signed. However, from the very composition of the management of the then HINA and to the composition of the Governing Council itself, it seemed different. The first thing that happened, somewhere there in 2004, in 2005, forgive me, I don't know these dates anymore, is that one very competent council of HINA, which was composed of the most prominent people in Croatia not to mention everything now, but these were also people with the experience of constitutional judges, etc., replaced by something that was then caused by a real scandal here in Parliament – with incompetent people, with some who were quite something else by profession. They didn't even have colleges or finished them quickly in evening schools, etc., etc. And of course, from there on out, the fall of HINA's importance began. I don't think it can happen that now or at this meeting right now, but for what time do we have a chance for someone else to speak for the council, the President of the Council doesn't say. It's nice to meet you and welcome to your speech, but we also have a council president who doesn't speak for the council. And that's where it should be organized and that the board of directors says it's also some kind of strategy about HINA's development. But I mean how? Well, I guess for that strategy there should be a background then and some people who can work on it with all due respect believe that it is you, I believe it is now those who have come through already... the institution, but it's all too little. HINA acts in completely changed conditions, and she herself has not changed anything for the better but has changed to the worse. And now we have a situation that everyone here reads together, so I'm going to join them so they don't think we didn't follow. So, here's the deal. Last year she was doing business with a loss of 2.8 or 2.9 million kuna, and this year a loss of 4.7 million kuna is planned. How is it possible to accept a financial plan for this year that plans for a greater drop in income and a greater loss than last year? And that there is no word in this plan about what is specifically intended to be done to prevent it. Last year HINA therefore lost contracts with the 2 biggest Croatian newspaper publishers with TIRIO and EPH, and the subscription cancelled 4 of the 5 biggest daily newspapers – Jutarnji, Vecernji, 24 hours etc. I'm not going to criticize the moral side of this at all. I don't like it, but it's obvious if they can cancel the subscription that something wrong with the quality of what they get as services. However, they are not themselves canceling the subscription. They're canceling your subscription and someone else's. You're even out of unions. So, for example. The union of officers and tenants complains, how much we have a letter from God and sometimes we get some letters, that they write to you themselves articles about what they do, and that it comes out and doesn't come out, etc. HINA and HTVs and HRTs are probably the 2 most important institutions operating in this area of information in the public information system. I don't think all I'm saying is, like, all over HINA or anything against HINA. We want to talk about HINA here, but on the basis of these performances and these knowledge we can't talk about this HINA, and we can't accept it as if something is going to happen from year to year as promises, and there's always going to be something next time. It's a table of things. This includes the constant announcement of new content. What new content? Where are the new contents? We don't have any new content. The meaning of information has changed, the availability of information has changed, the whole system in which I no longer need to think and HINA but before it finds anything else, but I need HINA to find something deep, analytical that will be composed, which will be connected to culture, economy, sports of anything, etc. It's not there. Oh, wait, I think it's all gonna be something. There is no such thing, there is no kind of quality which would therefore already have the information of force and allow it to come into the background of information, to serve history in this information etc. It's not even close to what's done. So we're talking about some new content, and in the meantime as far as we know, I can't and we certainly can't get into the metrics that need to be lifted from the concept, and what not, but you have a multimedia department that I think is factual or liquidated or doesn't have any meaning, etc. The issue of media, monitoring is probably the most crucial issue and I totally agree with that. And it may belong to the privileged, I was interested, which I saw and demonstrated... what was done here. So, one super interesting system of semantic processing and all other possibilities of searching information on one quality basis has been done, but please, it's just a network. It's a net where there's no fish. And the transition from the net, so throwing the net and catching the fish is what's missing here all the time and it can't be seen that it can be done so quickly. This quality project, which is quality as a system to win a scientific prize and international praise that it is well done, is only an empty system. It needs to work, it means digitizing the whole of this field, it means rediscovering the Vesnik documents and everything else and all the other documentation, it requires new funds. And there are no new funds. They are not there because they are foreseen that since 2007 when the project from 2007 was due to HINA's 40 million kuna revenue. He only brings immediate expenses and will still bring only expenses. We're not going to go in at all, and we know that there's always a lot of anxiety, a lot of different views, a lot of saying subjective views, etc. but a business policy aimed at revenue from the state on the one hand, and to sell out its own assets which is fortunate to say so to circumstances and by accident actually belonged to HINA and is actually spent on wages. Well, it's not a dating project. It's not a project for any dating. There's nothing you can do about it. We won't support this report. I speak in this form, we will not support it. Not to underline our dissatisfaction with HINA and its perspective, but to underline that the time has come for a little different types of warning to HINA compared to all of this. HINA needs reform, HINA needs serious reforms, reforms to deal with beyond HINA. Not the Parliament, not even the board, although of course the board has a very important importance there. But I think people who can help do something about this, and we would be serious about HINA's support. But people who don't do their jobs for years or who talk about doing something for years next year can't do it, so they're moving it from year to year, so they've lost their trust in something that they can do. I think it was also heard on the last board that we should secure a serious debate, expert. The expert debate does not mean an extra-party debate, because there are many in the parties who are professional and can be raised to the level that this is a public good that is with HRT and only public good in the field of information, as the only protection not only of culture, but of political technologies and the survival of this country, to do what needs to be done. So many individual examples could be spoken of. You understood yourself and almost everyone and those who decided to support this report mentioned the same defects. According to what we can do now. We can only deny support but I think someone should imagine and it is not only enough that HINA needs it but also the government and the opposition to find assumptions for one different view of HINA for one different giving meaning and competence not only in terms of business leadership it is even less important, but in terms of the vision and realization of a vision which has therefore some Nucleus but no results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62610	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen from HINA, colleagues and colleagues. If we were to compare Croatian agriculture and HINA, we would say there are no similarities. When viewed essentially and deeply, then it would be said that Croatian agriculture has been destroyed by imports over the past 20 years, it could find some similarities with HINA, given the presence and giving various consent to the activities of foreign media and news agencies in the area of the Republic of Croatia. And yet I must say that HINA carries in his first letter and his first word title or name Croatian news agency, but Croatia. Furthermore, we doctors usually when we don't know what's wrong with the patient, so a lot of us get together, then the worst happens, says the patient died of excessive help. I'm afraid these Christmas-New Year's greetings from the ruling clubs are a bit like that, and some other clubs here. Do not help too much in this way but should help concrete measures and concrete steps that the Croatian News Agency, through its new programmes and projects that are being exposed here and here, should achieve the results provided for by both financial and all others. Therefore, it is not exactly as the SDP club said that there are no new programmes and projects for HINA, but that it is so constantly delayed year by year, year by year the same reports, etc. There's a Media Monitoring project, it says here. It's kind of like saying, I won't say mini but Croatian Google. Why does no one here say that the Croatian news agency has worked on this and that there is a further possibility and future of development. Which is why he didn't come to life with us. Press clipping also offered by the Croatian news agency, when so-called press clipping is common in many countries and is of great help to both executive and NGOs, all those interested in sublimated news from one area, one narrow area of any. There are projects, but there is no support, there is no support for those who are responsible. And now it's said here that in June 2009, 14 media subscribers for financial reasons broke years' contracts with HINA. Among others, the EPH is mentioned. Did the EPH break the contract with HINA because of its debt to the state for a tax that hundreds of millions say. And where and how they finance themselves when they owe the state and they're forgiven for hundreds of millions of dollars, and here we're talking about HINA for some 35 million kunas. And that's our country's problem. Here we put them in class, in the 2010 budget with no one I know, some media help me out a little. There are no items for HINA but there are four or five of them involved, and then there will be distributions to whom, by grandmother and by uncles, who has better connections than usual in this country. And this is our Croatian Intelligence Agency that we need to take care of. They also refer to the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government for objectivity, but above all to the Croatian Parliament. And that is why the Croatian Parliament must react sharply here and you from the ruling circles of the opposition to change the situation with HINA because it is our agency. Look, on page number, and it says one and three but I don't know what two pages are now, I guess it says that somewhere in the middle of the passport, one, two, three, four, five sixth paragraphs that, with respect to the problems of public finances HINA has officially asked that in terms of the obligation to pay VAT be leveled with the printed media paying 10% VAT. HINA pays 23% neatly. So wait, what is this? Is that a Croatian stepdaughter, HINA? And those who are foreign media, Croatian mercenaries act anti-Croatian very often they are freed and are reduced to 10% VAT. What are we doing? So where do we live? So is this the Croatian state? Is this the Croatian agency? And then this hypocritically happy Christmas, happy New Year's card from the HDZ Club. So how happy she'll be when she's projected minus 4.7 million kuna for 2010. What's it going to be for 2011, sir? What's it going to be for 2011? Tell you from the HDZ Club that right now people know where they are, how many will fire them and what will they work on at all and what will they work with? And now the HDSSB club is considering whether to vote for this report as it is called, is either to vote against annually or to encourage those responsible from the ruling coalition to change the record to the Croatian news agency. I'm really in doubt about how to vote. Given that your report is very clear, concisely, I would say almost on the verge of pay for the rescue of the Croatian news agency. I'll vote for it, but we have to point out the problems here clearly, not to waste congratulations and wishes greetings from HDZ or I don't know that they will, as they will, be adopted by the Croatian News Agency Report. It's not true that HINA doesn't offer programs. We're doing it again here. Read well and carefully the material we received on the bench. Programs are offered, but you need to support them, you need to support them. I repeat again because it is our Croatian news agency, not the agency of some mercenaries who operate here, and are in ruins and trenches against the Croatian state. Therefore, I also support HINA employees of all 159 as indicated in this material. And that is why I support HINA's work, objectivity and all other quality, and finally if we are to discuss seriously as Mr Vujic said then we should define the true role of HINA, define or redefine but then allow it to normally operate rather than allow such reports to come in which they clearly speak of problems and clearly state where it is, so where are the controversial moments. But we do nothing as parliamentary representatives, and again, given the party's strength, we will vote as Mom, Dad said, and in fact we will not see again the problem our Croatian news agency has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62612	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic said that Croatian agriculture was destroyed. That's incorrect. Croatian agriculture is our strategic branch and thank God it's alive. And in that part, the results show that since 2003 milk production has increased by 170 million litres, over 5 hundred modern stables, operational programmes in cattle production and... give the plant their results in order to create competitive agriculture. [[You don't understand.]] In addition to its care for agriculture, the annual budget rebalancing, which has been increased by 600 million in order to tackle the damage against which you voted, and I say, in any event, that further efforts need to be made to strengthen agriculture, become competitive, but not a way to carry carnisters there on some tractors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62614	In 12 and 44 the time has expired for the debate to be reported for 10 minutes on this agenda point. We're going to an individual debate. Madam representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's from agriculture, I suggest we go back to the media space, dear Mr. Dripic, State Secretary, Director, I'm not going to start with financial and statistical indicators, but maybe I'll talk a little more about those programming ones. So in 2009 or at the end of 2008, the conditions for agency journalism obviously changed, and some large users during last year, as we had already had the opportunity to hear, were also cancelled by agency services. It is a pity that in my opinion HINA is not only a daily service, HINA is much more than that, thanks above all to the valuable documentation she took over from Vjesnik almost 3 years ago, and it is a valuable base of Croatian written memory that is still too little to be used in my opinion, or perhaps it is not clear enough in which way it could be used not only for those daily users, but in a broader sense. In the circumstances in which the media market operates, which is at the centre of attention, HINA has nevertheless maintained the direction of serious, correct and impartial reporting, and what is very important is objectivity, so in the circumstances of competition, and we have heard this TV, newspapers, portals, it is necessary to continue to develop new services in order to keep HINA's service in synonym for professionalism. In this sense, the project of creating a national media database should be further developed, linking the information base and the newspaper documentation of the Vjesnik as I have already said and, of course, perfecting the media monitoring project. I remind you that we are happy to talk about all this as a project to preserve Croatian cultural heritage, or we can now say 20 years of collective memory. The 20-year work of HINA also takes place in turbulent financial circumstances, but it is commendable that HINA has no debt and that despite the cancellation of some users, the number of employees has not changed, thanks to rationalisation and savings as seen in the report as well. When we talk about cancelling large users, if I remember correctly, I think we also discussed it on the Committee on Information and Media, it was said that they did not do it because they were unhappy, but the argument was that they did it, so these big customers who canceled the services, because they were in a difficult financial situation. Well, there's just a little appreciation for what's already been said here. Despite all the difficulties she has been going through over the past 20 years, I think we will agree that HINA is still a successful Croatian product, but the deterioration of market influence requires a safe new positioning, as well as measures designed to overcome above all financial problems, and I hope and believe that this will be the case. The colleagues of Beusa do not have, however, agree with him that it is truly strange that local communities, or cities, do not recognize the value of HINA's information, and HINA is exactly the place that is their only actual media space or exit to the national level. Speaking of problems, a fall in income and a number of users, it's a global problem agency, it's not just a specificity of HINA, so for example it hasn't bypassed the... The world's oldest agency, which was founded in 1835, is HINA's first news release on 17 August 1990. [[You don't understand.]] It is good that a strategic plan has been prepared, so the development plan in 2011 to 2013, which was here and requested during last year's debate, but what HINA is expected is not to destroy the logic of marketing, but to continue to respect journalistic standards. In all these circumstances, I will support the report with something that I must never get around, and that is that there is no HINA a significant part of the civil society of cultural programs and a whole series of those under quotes of minor events unfortunately in the media space would be as if it hadn't happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62616	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62617	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. HINA, member of the Administrative Council of HINA, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here are the debates of the representatives clubs, and even in these individuals we have heard a lot about the financial report and the part that should be content and programming, about the work of the Croatian Information News Agency, which I believe opens up enough space for me to speak in a different way in this debate about the given report. First of all, I would say that I will support the HINA report for May 2009-April 2010, but let me draw attention to it or bring out some of my thoughts and thoughts about a report that is so well-conceived. First of all, I point out the non-compliance period for which the report is submitted. I think that what we have received in the introductory part where they say that this report is a financial report for 2009, not as in previous reports of financial data for the reporting period, I believe that the HINA reporting period should be as uniform as in all other reports that are substituted here in the Croatian Parliament, which means that it will be a report on the work of HINA in the future, and I will still talk about it for 2010 with the financial, financial business report, because I find this inadmissible, that this is taking too long, and that this small step that has been made to make more HINA, or the administrative council not to submit a financial report for the reporting period, but for a year is not good, and that this can be changed very easily and that the next report of the Administrative Council of HINA will therefore be consistent with the year and financial business. The second thing is that in the 2001 HINA Act, Article 14 states that the Administrative Council of HINA, which is also the name of this report, is the report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA, the roles the law gives it says that the Administrative Council of HINA regularly, and at least once a year submits a report to the Croatian Assembly on its work. I will not say whether it is 9 years or so, that 9 years of implementation and application of this law may have been created other circumstances for the purposes of amending and supplementing this law, but I believe that we should also get the Annual report on the work of HINA, not the report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA, which then contains a list of how many sessions have been held, and I believe that the concept of this report would be much different, much more content and much better. After all, once a year we've coordinated, we've coordinated the year for the previous year, and what's this? So in this we also read what was in 2009 and we read what was until 30 April 2010 and we still say, or we prejudge what would happen by the end of 2010. So, I support the report for this period that we have received, but I really suggest that both the Ministry and the Government consider a way to be the Annual Work Report of HINA, and that it be harmonised financially with the report. My colleagues and colleagues talked about it and asked why there was a cancellation of the subscription, i.e. the contract HINA had in the past year, so during 2009, one of the speakers questioned the quality of the service provided by HINA. I would not say that only the quality of a service that I have no doubt because it is highly professional, was the reason why the EPH and the Vecernji List cancelled their cooperation with HINA and thus directly caused the reduction of income that HINA is on the market, so commercial services do. Like I don't think there was a reason, that the only reason was the financial situation. I do not agree with those who have said that this fall in income that HINA achieves on the market is addictive to this agency on funds from the state budget and transferred, or insinuated as they usually do, some desire to rule over HINA. Clearly, they were referring to the parliamentary majority. If that is not the case, it also shows that here in the number of users when we are talking about it, I do not know why in the number of users, or not the number but the list of users of HINA services is not from parliamentary parties, here I do not mean the Assembly and the clubs of MPs of parliamentary parties, but I mean the large parties, or all parties in the Republic of Croatia, HDZ as far as I know is the beneficiary of HINA services, unlike that of another large parliamentary party that does not use HINA services, and here trying to convince us that they are very concerned about the fate and future of HINA, while at the same time we are being told that we are not doing enough. Which I can't agree with, and I think these arguments that I've made show that this is the case. This report and list of users is a good opportunity to call and warn units of local and regional self-government, so the county, cities and municipalities, which so far have not been users of HINA services to become so far. Not only do they help HINA but also understand the importance of HINA and see the space that, for the news of events in small communities in the Republic of Croatia that are not the subject of any commercial media, is mainly foreign, so as to provide information on their activities both the units and the civil society associations, i.e. the population in that area. And to say no longer, congratulating the 20th anniversary, we heard that it will be marked on November 17th at 17th, although it was founded on August 17th 1990, I want a lot of success in future work and with one small note that I agree with what the Government of the Republic of Croatia said in its opinion, which is that it would be good to have, with all this here, contained and the measures that contribute to the economic, or developmental recovery of HINA in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62618	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect allegations of colleague Bilić Vardic who said HDZ is a customer of HINA's services. This assumption is partly incorrect, not only of HINA, but of HAC, HZ, HEP and other things that begin with H what we have been witnessing lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62620	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62621	Thank you very much. I read this report to HINA as a scream and a cry for help. And how do you respond to that scream? So the report is accepted. I don't think that answer is enough. We will accept the report, let things continue to develop as they start to develop, and not develop in the right direction. 2 million 800 thousand, next year 4.5 million, third year we don't know how much. HINA is among other things a symbol of statehood. A state that doesn't have its own reporting agency doesn't have all the symbols of statehood. HINA was thus established 20 years ago and its value, the importance of the institution lies that the state has, that the nation has an agency that will produce and transmit objective information about developments in the country. In what conditions was HINA founded? So different from today that it's incomparable. How much information is worth today, and how can you get information today unlike 20 years ago? The portals showed up. They're available for free, they're full of information, they're fast. Is it always true? Well, they're not. Who's controlling them? No one. To whom do they answer for the truthfulness of the information? No one. HINA works in conditions where it must be responsible for the accuracy of the information, for reliability, and for speed. You need information and check and you can't compete with portals. Why? Because they don't have that kind of responsibility. If I want to use the HINA service, I have to type in the password, then the password, so I'll get some news. On the portal I click, here it is. It's a simpler approach. The users of 14 media and 13 other non-media users cancelled. Look, I'm not getting into why they were canceling. Whether they were not satisfied with the service or because it is too expensive for them or because information can be obtained free of charge. It's enough to connect to the Internet. You'll get every piece of information without HINA. And in that sense, I think that this restructuring that we're talking about must be taken into account. Do you organize HINA as one of the portals? I don't know. The answer to that question in any case cannot be given by HINA's own administration and this administrative council, it cannot. Well, the founder's here. This is the cry of the Founder. So do you care about having HINA or don't you care as a state? Well, if we don't care, then we'd rather put an end to something that's going to make the losses year after year so it doesn't have any perspective. Well, then let's just say we don't need that or help as founders to change that. Look how the state fits. So HINA asked to reduce VAT and newspaper publishers to 10%. Here's what the government says, that's just amazing. "If HINA's activity is to issue newspapers and magazines that do not contain ads and do not serve advertising, then the value added tax rate of 20% applies." As far as I know, all the newspapers are publishing ads and they have 10%, and HINA doesn't. "However, if that agency performs the activity of the information indication, it is a service which is taxed at the standard rate of value added tax of 23%." So whoever has an additional source of marketing funding can have 10%, and HINA can't. She's private, HINA's in state. Well, listen, it's one maternal relationship, like to an unwanted child, like to a pastor. That's where he was born, which is where we're pushing him now. Maybe we'll give him some food, but we won't invest a single kuna in development. This incomprehensible relationship between the founders and the national agency. How do you fix this situation? Look, it certainly won't just make the council, nor can it be the most brilliant. They won't get over this situation. HINA needs to be legally defined, it is different to position on the market, to respect that the conditions have changed significantly since it was established, and nothing has changed in the legislation. Well, then maybe we can talk about some kind of liability to anyone for losses, for bad business. Look from these financial reports I see, management is trying to cut costs, but you can't do it that way. That's not enough. Well, we're gonna cut down on this one a little bit, so we're gonna cut the pay, and then we're gonna cut the costs, and then we're gonna make some kind of savings. That's not enough answer. That just isn't enough answer. HINA cannot remain just a protector or guardian of cultural heritage through this newspaper documentation of the Vesnik. Either we just define her as that, so we'll finance it from the budget, so we won't deal with the others or I don't know what. Well, she has to live, she has to start living as a producer of information, like the one who lets that information out. It must be more accessible, it must be more acceptable, it must be simpler in this regard. So, the answer of the parliamentary majority, we accept the report and we won't do anything, you're left with 23 VAT and we don't care what happens to you is entirely insufficient. We said colleague Vujic said, we won't accept this report, we won't be against it either, we'll be restrained in this regard. And our position above all is that our opinion is to the government to trade, to get serious, to understand the problem of HINA and to come up with some kind of solution, at least a proposal for a solution in this House, to show that it cares about HINA. We care about HINA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62622	Thank you. Two replicas. First Mr. Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62623	You invited me to expand your subject to a more complete misunderstanding by those who should understand what information is today and what knowledge is today. We swear on a society of knowledge. At this point, if you want to find out something about, say, universities, etc. You have to sign up for Carnet and it's in a complicated procedure by which the school secretary has to hit you with confirmation that you're a student. Why? Which is why the information that's on Carnet isn't available to everyone. At this point, it's just that I'm thinking about myself at the Lexicographic Institute expanding the base and making it publicly available, I guess that's what's going to happen. But you're alluding to something else, to something that's actually the biggest thing that makes sense as a whole. There is no reason, and in this case this should be supported by HINA and incomparably, that all HINA's information be fully open and available within such a small people who are crying out for knowledge, who have obstacles incredible that they are asking the state of a budgeted institution for correspondence. I think it would come out clearly in the knowledge that is otherwise public knowledge, etc. And this shows that there is no one vision, one vision in favour of the development of this country. And that can of course not be done by the Administrative Council of HINA. But it's not even someone else's doing it to connect this way. So figure out what that's going to do very quickly. How little to invest in, and how developmental the effects are compared to what we're going to think now, I don't know how to lift the parafiscal burden on the mind of the monumental heritage, etc. So we're gonna make some money out of it. Development doesn't need to be looked at, and this is an integral part of it, and it hasn't even touched this kind of problem that you've started... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62624	And Mrs. Representative Sunny Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stazic, I'm sorry when you say that you are imputing to us and nothing like that has been said to the parliamentary majority. We're not doing anything. It's just not true and you can't take it for granted. You tell us we care about HINA, we'll support HINA. So let's not wear it. HINA is a Croatian product and I will agree with you that HINA is something that is important for Croatia as well. So, as far as the Vesnik file is concerned, she was co-financed and we're talking about this memory that I said I wish it was more used and that more people use it. And as for these reasons that you need to go to HINA, you have to have a password, so you have to click this and that. You only have to once, then there is an option for you to remember the password so you no longer have to click several times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62626	Final review member of the Governing Council of HINA Ante Drpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62627	In fact, I have nothing full to say but thank you and the opposition for the very useful information we have received. We knew it all together, and when you put it all together, I don't know where you got 40 million kunas, we never talked about it. I've been in HINA since I was 90. 40 million kuna, but we don't want to talk about it. Thank you all. We invite you all to our 20th anniversary celebration and we'll see you there, we'll have a chance to talk more about it. And we just need to tell you a little bit of four million kuna to run that media monitor and close it. We offer the state 10 million kuna savings. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62628	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62629	We move to the Annual Report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA from 1 May 2009 to 30 April 2010. The applicant is the Administrative Council of HINA. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The annual report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA shall be adopted from 1 May 2009 to 30 April 2010. Please include and vote on the proposed acceptance of the report. The result? This year's report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA was accepted by most votes, 80 votes for, 33 abstentions and 8 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62630	We are going to the next item - Annual Report of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia Carrier: The National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development is the Carrier of the National Foundation that submitted this Report on the basis of Article 17(3). Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The government has delivered its opinion. The chairman of the National Foundation Management Board, Pero Lucin, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62631	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. I'll do a brief review, I won't bother you very much. I think you had a chance to read what the foundation was doing in 2009. I wouldn't go into detail. I would just like to highlight a few of the most important things that I think is needed in front of Parliament. In 2009, there was a change in the law, somewhere in the spring of the National Foundation. That change of law required certain restructurings. Among other two members of the Management Board, they resigned due to conflicts of interest. However, the resignation has not yet been realised. I hope that soon, so the president and vice president will resolve us soon and that part will end. The Foundation has been restructured according to what they have asked for changes to the law and has essentially not launched any new initiatives. She was running programs that were going by then. She hasn't reduced her standard of action. What was only characteristic of 2009 is that it intensified international activities. In 2009, a new organisational structure was created according to what the law required. However, what did not happen at the end of 2009 is to transfer funding and research to the National Foundation because only one million kunas were set by the Croatian Parliament to finance foundation projects. That's what he cares about, and that's where he's still standing. We gave you a complete overview of all the programmes and all the funding that we did in 2009 and funding in six years until 2009 so you have a complete overview of how the money that the foundation had at its disposal was distributed. With this in mind, I would like to remind you that the foundation is not SIZ, but an agency that manages and manages competitive programmes, which means competition for public money for funding and research according to the Foundation's programmes. And these programmes were more less structured to enable the competition of scientists from all scientific areas, all universities and institutes and practically less all programmes were developed in cooperation with European foundations and were trying to make themselves, follow European trends. What I'd like to point out is that there was a debate on the last report of the foundation. Most of the money was pulled by natural sciences 38%. Then technical science 23%, biomedical 21%, social 13%, and that's basically a picture of Croatia's scientific space. So who can draw money in competitions according to European standards. What was in 2009 So, the programs were continued and it happened again and again that, of course, most of the money had gone away, far most of the money went to the scientists and institutions that work in Zagreb because there is essentially the greatest concentration and the greatest power. And I don't think we can be satisfied with the success in the competition of institutions, and above all the universities that operate outside Zagreb. From international activities, I would highlight the very intensive activity of the Foundation in the European Science Foundation because this is what Croatia represents in the ESF, the EMBO - the European Molecular Biologists' Association and what we did in 2009 is a coalition of ten states for the joint international evaluation that we called IPRO. So, the initiative launched by our foundation. A network of similar organisations has been established in Central European countries and the network is functioning and has not developed significantly in 2010. As far as finance is concerned, the foundation did not receive any money in 2009 as well as only a million kuna in 2010 from the state budget and the only income it had in 2009 was income from interest. He stood out, given that such circumstances were 12 million kuna to the disarmament of the principal who had... available. [[You don't understand.]] I would not torture you with the details, what I would like to warn you that the Croatian Parliament must finally decide what to do with the foundation, because the Croatian Parliament has established, what to do with financing research in Croatia, these are our obligations, and with this extension, with this funding or the continuation of this kind of funding, I must warn that the position of Croatia is being brought into... which is being restructured and we have also warned of the report on the parliamentary committee. [[You don't understand.]] So to cut short, with this kind of organization and this kind of funding, there won't be any of us, they won't accept us for who we are. And I would also appeal to you and ask you that since this is the highest body that thinks and decides on science in Croatia, that the tsunamis that are happening in the financial economic political crisis do not allow these tsunamis to clean up our young scientists and that we are beginning to have brain drains, because it is now clear that Croatia cannot provide at this time Croatian young scientists with what their needs are and will again begin to happen to us to work elsewhere for someone else. The foundation was just designed not to happen. For the end I would only give you a picture, an illustration of the competitions of our post-doctorates and doctors who have been in the last two years, so 189 people asked for funding so they could come up with their careers, at the 4th month last year they competed 9, at the 10th month of this year 28 post-doctorates, at the 4th month of last year 13 PhDs, this year 48. In total, 189 people are trying to build their careers with money that should be provided by the Croatian state and the foundation has just designed programmes and these people, if they do not get support from the Croatian state, they will go elsewhere. And I think it would be tragic for our people to go to England, Germany, France and other countries to look for money for their own development and naturally invest their knowledge and their intellectual potential in the development of these countries. So I appeal that in this debate it is well thought out what will be the function and role of the foundation in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62632	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62633	Dear Mr. Vice President, Professor Lucin, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the annual report of the National Foundation on 20 October this year. The opening argument was tabled by a representative of the rapporteurs of the report, and allow me to present in the shortest lines the course of the debate. The National Science Foundation report, which entered the 9th year of action, contains all those areas originally defined by the Law on its founding, but also parts relating to the changed role of the Foundation since April of last year, when the Foundation was defined as a way of extra- budgeting and financing research projects, and has maintained the current tasks of financing different forms of training of scientific staff. In the conclusion of the report, the Management Board of the Foundation claimed that the Foundation developed administrative professional capacities and forms of evaluation that bring it closer to the standards of the Foundation in Europe and was adopted last year as a member of the European Science Foundation. In addition to the organisational adjustments made under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foundation Act, the Foundation may carry out all its tasks successfully, in the opinion of the Management Board. However, the Governing Board points to the circumstance that the assets, i.e. the revenues of the trust, are not sufficient for the extended role of the trust, since the movements in the field of science financing, including the funds of the trust in the gap with the declared national policy in this area, have fallen below 0.8% of the gross social product in the last year's research activity. The Foundation expects us in the Croatian Parliament to answer the following questions, does the idea of the state administration of independent funding research in the Republic come true, postpone or completely abandon? Is the position of the foundation in the European Science Foundation at stake? Are the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia at stake in pre-accession negotiations, as Croatia has committed to strengthening the independent system of evaluation and funding of scientific research? Whether there is a clear commitment of the Croatian Parliament on these issues. For this reason, the foundation is unable to draw up development plans for this year. In the debate, the work of the foundation is positively assessed within existing opportunities, and in particular the progress made in the methods of the foundation's work towards international standards. However, it has been indicated that the Foundation has exhausted its financial opportunities and that it cannot fulfil its new task of funding research projects, which are entrusted by law to the very foundation. As a result, the Committee considers that all those invited to do so should, in as short a time as possible, adopt solutions that would significantly increase the principality of the National Science Foundation through extra- budget sources. In developed countries, sources from the state budget do not exceed a third of the total, which does not mean that the absolute amounts of research sources from the Croatian budget should be stagnated, as is the case today. After the debate was held, the Committee proposed to the majority of votes 6 for, 2 against and one abstention to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a report on the work of the National Foundation and, in addition, to propose the following conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose measures for the appropriate increase of the principal, i.e. the property of the National Foundation for Science, by achieving a structure approximated to that in the countries of the European Union, taking into account, in addition, the position of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science as well as the strategy for the development of scientific research activities, in view of the existing economic conditions which will develop the National Science Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62634	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62635	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. You all know very well that the vast majority of great things, good things were during the coalition government, Racan's coalition government, and then the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development was established on 21 December 2001. Why? Don't let the tsunami happen to us. Why? For all young scientists to achieve their knowledge and talent in our country, in our country, in Croatia. And that was why we created a national foundation for science. And really, on page 3, you have a great diagram, a mission why you exist, a vision where you go in five or 15 years and goals. The foundation mission is the same everywhere. It is a promotion of science, education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. President of the Management Board the mission was clearly in Finland, Croatia, South Korea or another country. The vision answers the question where do we want to go? Where do we want to go? Where will we be in 2020, where will we be in 2025? And says the vision is the transformation of Croatian society into a knowledge society. Given that the report is very critical and since you have pointed out, I quote, "For years now, there has been a worrying decline in research investments, and in 2009 it fell below 0.8% of GDP." The vision was absolutely not achieved. And I don't think that this is the tsunami that's already going towards us and that's got us locked up, but this is the tsunami that's already pulling out the few of us who survived, and science with health is the foundation of every society of every country and so is the Croatian society and Croatian state. So, the vision was not fulfilled, and as you yourself said, Mr. President of the Management Board, we had an obligation, given Chapter 25, which you first completed and on which I congratulate you, we had an obligation to the 3% action plan. So instead of growing investment in science, 3% of us keep falling and falling below 1%. Therefore, of course we will not support this report because the vision has not been achieved. Furthermore, we won't support it because the goals that were 5 were achieved are only 2, or one, and let's say half the following two. So he says to identify and support individuals who can contribute more significantly to the development of strategic areas has simply not been achieved. We have not achieved this in this decade, we have not identified people who will carry Croatian science, projects. In the end, the foundation was established for the sake of the strategy, but it continued to finance programmes that belong to the regular activities of the Ministry of Health. So this should be done by the Ministry of Health, most of these projects that are notes from 30 to 100 thousand. So they are not some large figures, and the foundation should be strategically thought and visionary daily develop Croatian science. Furthermore, the only goal that is supported and I definitely congratulate you is the inclusion of Croatian and Croatian scientists in the European Science Foundation programme as you yourself said and we must not allow Croatia from one such esteemed institution for lack of funds or for something else to come out. The third reason why we can't support it is because you, the chairman of the board of directors, together with your deputy, believed or didn't resign in July 2009. So, for a year and a half, you've been left behind, so it would be good if you'd at least signed the report as chairman of the board of directors. Because you yourself said you hoped to be relieved by the Croatian Parliament, but you wrote in your report that you resigned from the Ministry of Science, the Minister of Science. So, I don't know, I know who you need to be named and who you need to be resolved, but I'm not sure if you're familiar with the fact that you're supposed to resign or God forbid that resignation was fixed, that there was one way out, one going out an honorable, but a year and a half too long to last this one state of stalemate position. The fourth reason is what you said amazingly – we are entering the state of knowledge, in Croatia's knowledge, and from the state budget last year only one million kunas or you emphasized the professor yourself. Luke's only income was interest. Well, that's actually amazing. You're a savings bank, or I don't know what they'd call it, a cube of some kind? If we have not invested, the Croatian Government has not singled out in the state budget the development of the foundation how can we enable our young scientists to achieve their knowledge and talent in their country in Croatia? I usually commend the board members in the sense that they are our senior scientists, and you are before you came into conflict of interest because you are now the Rector of the University of Rijeka, rightly elected to this honorable society, and only it would be good for you to, given everything you've done in your life to insist on getting rid of you as soon as possible, because a year and a half of a day has been blocking you, blocking the foundation and a hundred reasons we definitely can't support this report. So there are three reasons. First of all, there's no vision. We're far from vision. Second, targets one and a half to two out of five. Third, for formal-legal reasons, because the chairman of the board of directors and his deputy is in resignation. And the fourth can't definitely be because of those you've highlighted, because of young scientists, our postdoctorates, because until it's possible that your foundation and our foundation have more resources these young scientists will not achieve their knowledge and talent in our country, but that the tsunamis will spread from economy, education, education to science, and hopefully not to something else. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62636	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I would like to correct the quote of my colleague Ostojić, who said that in 2001 a great law was made, but that here with this government, every vision of purpose was lost, etc. I will deny you with the first sentence in the introduction of this material where it is said that the National Science Foundation was founded on December 21st after basic activities related to the registration and launch of the foundation only in 2004, so the arrival of our government, our HDZ Government, have opened programmes that have started funding projects. So, only by the arrival of HDZ authorities you lost for 3 years did this foundation start to work, to finance projects, and it brought in, among other things, this strategic plan that it started working on, etc. So let's read the material.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62638	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session, continuing at 3:00. It's on behalf of the HSS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62639	We'll continue the session with the afternoon session. It's a club debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62640	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, honourable promoters. The report, which we will support in the HSS Club, says that the past 5 years have achieved an improvement in the procedures for reception, evaluation, reporting, monitoring and project management, which is new in the academic community in Croatia. All documents, tenders and evaluation results are available to the academic public, and the aim of the foundation was to make the evaluation process transparent and objective. Since changes and additions to the laws governing the work of the foundation have taken place, the creation of conditions for the acquisition of funding for the project and changes to the organisational structure of the foundation, leaving for the first time the state funding of scientific activities to an independent institution that is managed exclusively by criteria of expertise, scientific excellence and national priorities. The continued development of international contacts enabled networking with similar organisations to ensure independent reviewers who would be willing to participate in the evaluations carried out by the Foundation as important as possible in order to choose, in the process, truly the most qualitative projects and support those scientists with the best perspective. In 2008, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports proposed a project to strengthen the National Foundation for Science, and the realization began in 2009 by transferring the main funding of scientific projects from the state budget to this independent and professional institution. However, it also imposed the need to provide additional funding since the funding of projects financed by the Ministry of Science, Education and Solvent until then was taken over. The work of the foundation so far has shown that it is capable of carrying out objective and transparent evaluation, and of monitoring and monitoring the financing of the project, which is actually a necessary condition to support the highest quality projects and the highest quality scientists. It is important to point out that the Foundation has aligned the procedure with how similar European foundations apply. This is particularly important from this point of view, which, among other things, is the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 25 - Science and Research, and the common position of the EU Member States in Chapter 25 highlights the need to strengthen the national research system and improve the system of evaluation of scientific projects, scientists and scientific organisations, and the European Commission's report on Croatia's progress highlights the need to improve the system of allocation of state resources in order to ensure excellence. In this direction, the amendments to the National Foundation Act were also made to ensure the construction of a system of evaluation and remuneration that is adequately linked to scientific results, which will promote the personal responsibility of scientists and will be encouraged to rejuvenate the research population. Surely one of the most significant activities is the evaluation of the notified projects for the funds of the foundation. 65 Croatian and 25 foreign experts participated in the evaluation processes in 2009. The evaluation of applications shall be carried out by the Expert Evaluation Board, which shall consist of 3 to 5 members, and shall be carried out on the evaluation panel according to the individual programme forms. For projects larger than 300,000 kunas or as prescribed by the competition, an historical assessment with foreign experts is organised after the panel. The electronic project application system facilitates the process of users, and in order to include as many experts as possible for the evaluation, a continuous evaluator base has been opened for both Croatian and foreign scientists. At present, about 500 domestic and foreign experts from different scientific areas are listed in the Evaluator base. From 2004 to 2009, the Management Board launched 22 programmes to allocate funds for projects, scholarships and awards. Within all tenders opened by the end of 2009 for the financing of accepted projects, project financing totalling 62.5 million kuna was granted. In the first five years of project financing of a total of 553 projects reported on all funding programmes, 297 projects, scholarships and awards were approved after the evaluation panel. The highest percentage of project acceptance is in young researchers' programmes with an emphasis on strengthening the mobility of research potentials of young researchers as well as in the joint study programmes. Low acceptance rates have programmes for funding studies, where there have been no accepted projects, awards and quality programmes in higher education. The Management Board of the Foundation shall annually deploy programme resources into programmes and tenders to be opened. In 2009, free programme funds amounted to €26.7 million. The ratio of the requested and the funds for approved projects in 2009 was 46%, and the highest use of funds is for partner programmes and scholarships for PhDs. The largest number of projects accepted is from the University of Zagreb 41 projects, then from the Ruđer Bošković Institute 15 projects and the University of Osijek 11 projects. The largest number of funded projects is in natural sciences, and there are the most paid funds of the foundation, while the smallest number of projects in the field of social sciences, and the smallest funding is paid for the field of biotechnical sciences, and something more for humanistic sciences. The Foundation supported the reform of higher education, with young researchers with a recently acquired doctorate enabling the completion and acquisition of experience at foreign scientific institutions as well as foreign candidates to come to Croatian institutions through the Post Doc Program. 20 project proposals came in 2009 from which 18 were accepted, and the return of scientists from abroad and employment in Croatia was encouraged. The programme of establishing support encourages the establishment of research groups with modern international competitive issues, whose leaders are successful young scientists and thus wants to foster their interest in staying in Croatia. I particularly want to highlight a partnership programme in basic research aimed at increasing the extra- budget share of investment in basic research through the promotion of cooperation between scientific institutions and industry and entrepreneurs, where the foundation invests up to 70% of the total project resources as a good example. However, all of this is questioned after reading the conclusion of the report, which states that the national funding policy of scientific research activities has not clearly been defined for increased investment in science. This is supported by the fact that there has been a decline in research investments for several years. In 2009, it fell below 0.8% of GDP. The Management Board of the Foundation considers that this level of investment is below the critical level that ensures development, and that the development of research institutions has entered a negative phase that reduces the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia in the long term. It is also pointed out that the reorganisation of the foundation resulting from changes to the Spring Law was further slowed down by the end of 2009 when the Management Board found that the new funding model was not defined in the 2010 state budget in which there was no means of achieving the planned activities of the foundation provided for by the law. We believe that the amendments and additions to the Law on the National Science Foundation that we have brought before the summer break will contribute to strengthening it to ensure the resources necessary to finance the projects from the European funds for this purpose. In fact, without the development of science, we cannot expect to catch up with other countries that have invested far more in this area. We also believe in the HSS club that it is necessary to take a clear view of the position of the Foundation in the Euroen Science Foundation and on the reflection of the unresolved status of the Foundation on the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia in pre-accession negotiations because Croatia has clearly committed to strengthening the independent system of evaluation and funding of scientific research. We would also like to warn of the relatively small success of doctoring scientific recruits which lies in the fact that scientific research at our institutions is not high-quality or modernly organised, but money is mainly awarded by individual topics by their mentors and then the experience speaks, as well as the letters that we Assembly representatives get to be obstructed by these same mentors because they are afraid that the money after they doctorate them very quickly. We feel that the relationship to scientific money is inadequate and we ask that the Ministry of Science is missing its sin, i.e. The indemnity ceases to justify the independence of the university and helps the scientific money which in a growing number complains about their mentors' intolerable attitude towards them as well as the situation that for permanent jobs in a scientific institution where scientific money was required to compete in competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62641	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this year's 2009 National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development Report. In fact, we believe that the National Foundation is an important part of scientific logistics, and for this very reason we hold that in the future we need to strengthen what is clearly involved and more generous funding from the state budget for, especially for the segment dealing with the National Foundation, which is research, these are 22 programmes for which, indeed, with one insight and analysis, when they pass, they hit the whole of this scientific structure and those segments that need to be further strengthened and that should be further addressed in the future. It is also to welcome the Agency's strengthening in terms of its spatial dispersion. It means we have an office to set up. For now, it is as far as we can see Rijeka and Opatija and Zagreb and that they are in the plan Osijek and Split. And here we are, in a way, encouraging ourselves to get to it as soon as possible. And it's also safe to say when we talk about the structure of the reported projects that it's going to be in some way an added motive, the initiation and that kind of marketing impulse. It means that more scientists and all those covered by the programmes appear and run for foundation projects. In fact, as a state, we have defined ourselves as a society of knowledge. We're not out of the way. We know that this knowledge must be in the function of economic development and that today, in fact, the competitiveness of one economy and one country is increasingly measured by research and development, intellectual capital or innovation, and that this research is actually all going in this direction. It means strengthening the country's innovation capacity, and that means greater competitiveness. When talking about the part where knowledge should play its part in economic development, in competitiveness. In itself, competitiveness in the definition is therefore a consequence or product of productivity, and this productivity, when analysed, consists of one part relating to the reduction of business costs and the other part to new technologies and new products. It is in this part of the competitiveness that concerns new technologies and new products that is crucial to commercialise knowledge. So to put this knowledge into a function of economic development, first and foremost through innovations which, by definition, represent commercialized knowledge, i.e. knowledge transformed into a new economic value through technologies competitive on the market. In fact, we are in a world that is after this third scientific and technological revolution, so after the development of information technology, automation, communication technology, cybernetisation, biotechnology, etc., where it is a classical traditional economy means that it relied on land, labour and capital to move to a new knowledge economy. And that Croatia must find its position. If you look at the world's global wealth schedule, then data shows that developed countries over 65% of their wealth, so their gross social product is based precisely on human capital. It's 67%, actually. In exporting countries, the raw materials, therefore undeveloped, are 36% and 56% less developed. So, the world's most developed economies, more than half of gross domestic products are based on knowledge, based on intellectual capital, based on human capital. If you look at the world's strongest brands like Coca-cola, like General... , such as IBM, Microsoft, McDonalds, Ford, which are among those 10 strongest global brands of over 75% of their market value exactly thanks to the intellectual capital of that human capital, so the knowledge that has been incorporated into them as added value. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have had opportunities to meet that and the European Union has found itself in the so-called the European paradox where the fact that the European Union has a lot of research, a lot of scientific research, has a lot of good results, but that this scientific research does not automatically produce more competitiveness, that is, economic growth. And there was a twist in European policy, so according to research, according to science, according to development, so it is particularly important to remember this green paper on innovations from '95. For years, therefore, they realized that high science does not automatically produce new technologies and economic growth, and that it is necessary to think about how this scientific research that is being done means that the finals result in innovation, that the final result is by solving concrete problems for which it has practice, which it has an economy. If we're talking about the level of resources invested in research, here's the data. So in the EU 27, so 27 member states share in the gross social product of total investment in research and development is 1.9%, in these old Member States it's about 2%, so in these old 15 member states, for example. in the United States, it's 2.76%, and in Japan it's 3.54%. So that's the share of total research, so in the gross social product of those countries. Also, what might be even more important as data, when we talk about the knowledge to be realized, means on the market through new technological achievements, through innovation, etc., so what is the share of industry in financing development and research in this, we can say to the strongest world economic powers in the Republic of Croatia as well. So in the Republic of Croatia we have a situation that industry participates in these research and development with 45%, in the European Union, these old Member States are about 65%, in the European Union all 27 member states are 63.6%, while in the United States it is 72 and a half percent and in Japan 78.5%. It is precisely this data on research and development, i.e. through the funds invested by the state, so by the institutions, but also by business operators, that is, industry is talking about better cooperation of research institutions, better cooperation of research with the economy, and then we see it in the finals that it speaks of both competitiveness and economic strength of these countries. With us, at least as far as this institutional investment in science and research is concerned, it's still somewhere, here's the 0.8% figure for last year, but in the last five years it's going somewhere slightly less than 1%, and it's clear that it's not enough, that it's maybe twice less than the European Union, but even three and a half times less than the world's strongest economic power. And just when I was talking about this shift in the European Union policy, so in this '95 green paper on innovation, it is said that there should be stronger co-operation between research and the economy. So market exploitation of research must be greater, and we here in the foundation among one of these 22 programmes have one programme that supports fundamental research, i.e. basic research that later ends with either patents or innovations, i.e. with results that can be applied in practice, or for them exist from practice, or industry interest. Then it is certain that this shift should be mentioned in 2000, i.e. the Lisbon Declaration in which Europe says it will transform into the most competitive, dynamic knowledge economy and where this innovation policy is particularly promoted, and also where it is developed in Barcelona, means in 2002, where it is said that the European Union will double investment in research, but also that if these research is financed by 3% of the gross social product, two thirds of the resources will be allocated from this private sector, so from industry, which would mean greater cooperation with industry, but also better transformation of scientific research as some additional value to the economy. One of the instruments also means the 7th FP7 Framework Programme, which defined Europe's space as a single market for research, is a major contribution, it is the largest civil programme in the world ever, with a budget, or budget of 50 billion euros, and it is clear that we are interested in both Croatian researchers and Croatian institutions in it as much as possible. The Republic of Croatia is currently participating with 75 projects, including 96 institutions, and projects involving 339m euros. Therefore, all of these trends and all of these indicators clearly say that investment in research must be increased, both institutionally and from the state budget, so also through the Croatian Institute of Technology and through this foundation of science and through other ministries, so not only the Ministry of Science, but also through the tendering process and through these tenders we must ensure that there is greater representation of industry, i.e. the economy. So condition the tenders, condition the selection of projects, to include the economy and science, which will be first on the list of those users and the practical application of these research results. It is therefore certain that Croatia should strive, that the share of research in our gross social product from the current 1% to rise to 3%, to increase the share of the private sector to at least 60%, and it is also possible that, when it comes to competitiveness, our exporters are rightly the key, to create perhaps one programme where this export product would be the same, but also research that would contribute to it having certain support measures from the state budget. What is also on behalf of the club, except that we support this report, may also need to consider a joint register of all projects that are placed on the competition by the state, by units of local self-government, by all state agencies, foundations, etc., to have a single register in order to avoid overlapping projects, i.e. the same ideas only under a different name are financed from several sources, that they are running according to local self-government, according to the counties, cities, municipalities, and on the other hand, that the same projects receive funds from these, therefore, the Ministry of Science, the foundation do not know different other ministries. So one unique registry, I think, would absolutely make it impossible, and it would help all of you in your work. And here in the end, HDZ supports this report and supports the future development of this Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62643	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62644	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the Management Board, colleagues and colleagues. In the last hour and a half, I have changed the concept of exposure three times because already after my colleagues from the SDP and the chairman of the board and what our parent body has expressed their position, I have already received a number of e-mails from people from all over Croatia and I will install them, and I will also try to install their thoughts on this debate and this extremely important topic. My colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to remind you that the government has committed the National Council for Science, and we will have this report behind this, to develop a strategy of scientific and research work under the conditions of the current economic crisis. The National Council for Science found in its report: the Council discussed the priorities of scientific and research work in Croatia but did not come to a final point of view. It points out that the National Foundation for Science is funding an important part of the scientific research activity, and the priority decision will depend on the position of the Foundation. We heard a little while ago, the trust fund's gone. And then how are we going to realize by transferring responsibility from one to another, to the third, to the fourth, and the last one has no chance of doing anything in this area? My colleagues and colleagues, it would be quite logical to do things very differently. It would be logical if the government had adopted a strategy to get out of the crisis, that the strategy was based on our county, our cities, our municipalities, and on the horizon of the educational institution, scientific institutions, economic institutions and everyone else. Unfortunately, we are doing exactly the opposite of logic and the opposite of the way that all other European and world states have come out of the crisis. My colleagues and colleagues, when I recently discussed with the people of Lower Austria, had great difficulties in the area of the economy. The plastic sector – a cluster of plastics that produces very many parts, plastic parts for the automotive industry, have had great difficulties with the quality of some plastic parts because the competition has found more durable materials, more quality materials, more thermally durable materials, etc. And they tried in the city where they worked out those factories to find an expert to solve it. They couldn't find him. They called a state competition, and nobody in all of Austria knew how to solve the problem. A European competition was launched, a single man from Cologne called by the region of Lower Austria paid several months to work at the factory and he solved their problem. They're competitive again for the next few years, they're safe about their position. I only said this to make it easy for you to see that knowledge is not easy, that knowledge should be highly appreciated, and we are doing everything but that. When I was a young researcher in France, then, colleagues and colleagues, I'll tell you again a link to the foundation and its role. When I stayed for 8 months, the French Minister of Science said in my 4 years, my mandate would be priority areas of fibrooptic fibers, genetic engineering and semiconductors for the needs of the French pharmaceutical industry, the electrical engineering industry and clearly ICT technologies that were born. Every minister, every government in every country knows exactly what the economic priorities are. Of course, the entire research activity in the big country was based on the funding of those involved in these areas, education is clearly directed towards obtaining the profiles they need in the coming years at their universities and schools. We've never been able to copy that, colleagues and colleagues. It's not much. Mail that I just received in 14.01 reads: "In the meantime, I applied for my innovation for the competition personally at the BICRO Innovation Centre in Croatia. My innovation passed an innovative concept check after which I was invited to a presentation in Zagreb. At the presentation, there was an evaluation board of five people who listened to my presentation, but I saw that they were not interested in what I was saying or presenting. It was probably already decided who would get the funds. They did not ask any questions other than the statement that they had already seen a similar product and that it was nothing new. Although I've been stressing the advantage and difference all along compared to the standard products used." Later, the innovator gets an explanation, says: "There is not enough advanced technological solution." And secondly, "There's limited market and commercial potential." My colleagues and colleagues, I personally checked it out, it's a brand-new power source using that machine. We don't even have rules in Croatia to regulate the standards of using this energy source, and for this gentleman there is insufficient technological progress. The market – if earlier-generation appliances with another energy source have been used for decades and are cost-effective from the idea that the new product will not have markets? That's ridiculous, that's inconclusive, that's incorrect. This way of working and this kind of relationship to the foundation, according to the efforts of the foundation, to scientists, to the innovators, to those who deal with technology transfer, we will not be able to get out of the crisis. My colleagues and colleagues, I really ask you this condition that we have today is unacceptable. This report is the best indicator of the weight of the economic situation we are in right now. We closed the last valve that could help Croatia get out of the crisis. The prime minister said yesterday, "We're on our way out of the crisis." I'd rather say, "He who doesn't know where he goes every time he takes him there." I repeat this quote from Alice in Wonderland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62645	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Nevio promenade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62646	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Mr. MP Doric said a crisis-out programme is expected by the National Science Council to express such a strategy. It is unfortunately a great lie, although it is true that it is trying to make both the scientific community and its proposal. I will only warn you that the Croatian Government is already implementing the economic recovery and exit programmes in 2010 where many measures have already been consumed. Not only in the field of science, but in the area of finance, public administration, promotion of the Croatian economy, judicial reform. And here we have a whole list of those changes that have been made in education and science, now I don't have time to read, but just for the sake of our public I would like to warn and say it is working and not waiting for what the National Science Council will bring.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62647	Thank you. And now we're moving on to an individual debate. And again, the distinguished representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62648	Okay, thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Secretary of State, President of the Executive Board's Foundation, Madam Representatives and Representatives. I really think we all agree that the Foundation's mission is to promote science, higher education and technological development. That's what today's debate showed. But it seems to me that this is one form of coordination and through the foundation we encourage a European approach to science, and that seems to be it. We heard here today, and some boasted that they founded this foundation back in 2001, the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development at the time of the coalition government. But it seems to me that we must all be content with those who founded at the time, but then later what this report shows was what seemed but only five years ago. So one total contribution, even in this report, is like this. "The projects of the last five years have marked a continuous improvement in the procedures for adopting evaluation, reporting, upgrades, project management, which has been recognised as a new practice in the academic community in Croatia." Therefore, I do not think that this topic on which a political group should be singled out, but science should be integrated and valid for all, because scientists are also not members of a party but... a very conscious and conscious community that can indeed move our situation in society and economic development nowadays. And that is why I think it is not good to bid on such political thesis as it was today, but to look the truth into the eyes and see that what other European countries are, and our foundation is also a member of the European Association and we are installing it in Croatia. The truth is that when we discuss this topic, I listened to a colleague, Doric, it is impossible to separate and the current state of the foundation that has in its account seems to me 93 million kuna as a deposit barata a little lower and the economic crisis and recession that it is that it cannot pass us by, it reflects on these contents as well. That is why I want to refer precisely to this period of 2009 in which we had one change in the law relating to the work of the Science, Higher Education and Technological Development Foundation and which I am aware of is being implemented and handled. And in 2009, the foundation had 12 open invitations to tender for which programming funding amounted to 26.7 million kuna. The highest percentage of programme funding is planned for support programmes 21%, funded by science doctors less than 35 years of age for the establishment of independent research, and a 17% research partnership programme. The aim of which is to attract investment from non-financial sources into thorough research. In addition to these programmes, the foundation in 2009 was also awarded grants for its programmes for PhDs, post-doctoral students, then projects by foreign or Croatian scientists working abroad, for conducting scientific research at Croatian institutions, international co-operation meetings, national courses for PhDs and projects that build up Croatian professional titles. And in 2009, the highest percentage of funded projects was from the field of natural sciences, which means 39%, technical sciences 20%. The annual report also shows a detailed analysis of the allocations by institutions and scientific areas for 2009. Which says that in this year's 2009 too, a lot seemed to be happening. But what I would like to say as a representative of the Croatian Parliament and a member of the Committee on Science is that it really concerns the current situation in financing, and it is closely linked to our general situation. I want the same thing, and we discussed it on the board, and that's the same thing in common that other fellow MPs have pointed out that separation at 0.8% of GDP is not enough for all of what we want in science and congestion that we want to achieve. But I believe that this is a temporary character associated with the overall fact that our society and the environment are found European and wider. That certainly opens up a series of questions. We are discussing here today almost at the end of 2010 about what happened in 2009 and I believe that in the coming period funding will not only come from the state budget, because it is usually European practice that colleagues certainly know about 1/3 of the state budget but from finding other financiers who have an interest in scientific development. I am convinced that even those who from other independent sources would give money that it is also burdened with the situation in which we live. It's to be expected that they'll get better, too. And I support this conclusion of a committee that warns of such financial difficulties and conditions and allows the foundation to strengthen in the coming period to say my material situation. In this regard, I support this report for 2009 and I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62649	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62650	Thank you very much. I've raised a replica, not a correction to the wrong assumption that you can answer me. Look, I said the government committed the National Science Council to developing a research strategy in terms of the economic crisis, not a strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia. But I'm asking you, tell me now how if scientists were in the council, either in the foundation of setting up that strategy. Which, by you or by government, are the priority economic areas that we need to explore, which new technologies, for which we need to transfer the economy, which we need to perfect in order to help which economic branch, etc. Do scientists in Croatia know these parameters?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62651	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62652	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Doric. I mean, it's a little clearer in your replica now. And it seems to me that on the one hand we need to respect what is already done and what the Government does with its team, and what needs to be done and given the possibility that the National Council for Science as the most competent example of an institution that can do so, so scientists always have more solutions and just through a study that will happen and that, as far as I'm informed, they've already completed all the activities and that study is going to public debate, we'll be able to expect some different solutions. As far as I'm aware, they offer a whole series of measures, one categorized one eight points, and some come from that circle of people who, in their own autonomous way, can offer certain solutions, and in this respect it seems to me that this material in which you and I will certainly participate in the debate will certainly be useful elements in the public debate for the development of Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62653	Thank you. And we have another replica, the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62654	Comrade Šetić, this is not about the debate on the bidding with the thesis, but as you yourself have said this is indeed an opportunity for this debate to look the truth in the eyes. You were talking about funding and you said this funding was reduced financing of temporary character, i.e. it was about transient financial difficulties. I warn you, see the table, or chart on the financing on page 39. Reports. What is very clear, unequivocally shows that reduced funding of the foundation is not a temporary character. In 2002, 50 million kunas, in 2003, 35 million kunas, and since then we have fallen below 10 million kunas a year to come now to one million. The money in the trust fund, these budgets don't fall off Mars or the budgets get poured in. They are in the budget by decision of the Croatian Parliament, by decision of us, me, you and all other colleagues. You, among other things, have decided that the foundation will receive only one million kunas and no more, not someone else. You decide on the budget together with me. I, of course, opposed that budget and even wrote amendments on the subject. Second. The Foundation was established for strategic steps in scientific research and in higher education. However, it continues to finance programmes that are actually part of the ministry's regular activity rather than its core activity for which it was established. Third. The foundation is planned to take over the approval and funding of individual and non-institutional projects in accordance with the law you passed in 2009. You remember that amendment to the law, but it did not happen or have any indication that it would happen in 2010. In addition to the new competitions, the new project cycle has not been announced at all. So it's not about bidding with thesis, it's really about getting to the edge. You've changed the law by which the treasured purpose has been reduced. So, we don't have that part at our disposal anymore, and there's no new money. And finally, I apologize, Mr. Vice President, for one more sentence. [[Thank you very much.]] I think we can agree if in one topic we can't settle for average and satisfactory, then that's this topic. I thank you for your understanding, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62655	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62656	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. The fact is that the state has invested certain funds in the trust and the fact is that European countries usually invest one third of those funds that are being raised, but the fact that we have failed to obtain certain funds from other sources. Also, on the other hand, the fact is that the number of projects that the foundation is constantly getting so that it performs its function, and I'm going to read you just one sentence. The results so far show that the foundation is a small but well-organised segment of funding of the scientific system that promotes excellence, mobility and individual responsibility. And what would I like to say? Well, she's not the only foundation in charge of science development, but she'd say so... new opportunities, ideas and inclusion of Croatia in the European space, and here I think we have succeeded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I fully agree with you that we have reached the edge and will need additional funding, because it has shown this report that it will be missed. But this is a fact that comes out of the general state that is in society, and surely in the next period it will improve.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62657	Thank you. Dear Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić continues with an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I think that the key passage in this report that I support is that for the extraction of science, it actually fell to one critical point, even below the critical point of 0.8% of GDP. And, of course, as long as it doesn't increase significantly, we can only tell stories in science. From this report there is an incredible discrepancy in the financing of individual institutions, so for example the University of Dubrovnik almost does not exist, HAZU almost does not exist. I'm not getting into who's to blame. There's a variety of possibilities. For example, whether Dubrovnik scientists are inert, so they do not compete or inform and educate about the work and funding opportunities through the foundation well, or whether funding is approved through those known passing channels. You have a connection, you have information, and that's how you're actually gonna get money for your project. In this way a very large amount of valuable scientists, especially those outside of Zagreb, stand outside the game. I don't know what's causing it, I just found what's visible in this report. I'm just saying that the distribution of money isn't... logically in the ratio that would correspond to the image of scientific institutions in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to be honest here and say that I don't have enough information about how the foundation works so I can answer the question why. However, this report shows that information is missing. Therefore, I think more should be presented to the public the possibility of funding, i.e. ways of reporting. As there is discrimination on the financing of individual institutions, this report also shows discrimination in the financing of certain areas of science. For example, projects funded by a foundation in the field of humanistic sciences are absolutely minor compared to what we have in Croatia in humanistic science. I can ask that question I said in the opening part again, which means I don't know who's responsible for it. Are these inert scientists, is that a bad information system or, of course, a channel system? Most likely both of them and the other and the third. Talks with scientists in the area actually show that nothing can be seen that this condition that is represented by humanistic sciences in Croatia. My colleagues sent me an e-mail, so they said, I quote them from 13 projects 4 essentially belong to natural medical or technical sciences, performed by those institutions, not those whose focus is humanistic science. One of these projects, as they say, is thought to be not even organized by scientific institutions. The question is, is it a society of plastics and rubber humanist science? So we mentioned earlier that there remains a problem in the system of funding science insufficiently, and also the dissatisfaction of scientists precisely because of the said reduction in funding, you know the foundation was mentioned earlier that with 50 million now came to only 1 million. Therefore, the gentleman also mentioned earlier that the increased number of projects is a sign that the foundation performs its function, but unfortunately from this it is evident that the foundation does not actually perform its function, or has no conditions to perform its function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62659	Thank you. Final review, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Pero Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62660	Dear MPs and MPs, thank you for the debate, thank you for your comments. I would try to actually answer these few questions that have come up in the debate, and above all to the honourable MPs. What was particularly the case last year was an intensive debate on discrimination between certain areas and individual institutions. What I have pointed out several times and what is important, which is the essence of the foundation and all similar agencies that finance research in Europe, that it is based on competence, so it is not... which sets out according to some size, the number of scientists or the political assessment, but only by the fact that scientists compete in competitions, and of course in these competitions they pass or do not pass. [[You don't understand.]] And basically the whole concept of the foundation is set up on that principle, and the evaluation is just being carried out by the principles of how European foundations do it, because we went there, we learned from them, and we use European evaluators. So the possibility of getting a project through a relationship is very small, almost zero, because even the board members don't know who our evaluators are, and the evaluators are generally from around the world, with us forming a base of evaluators, but since we saw that this is complicated because general evaluation has become a very demanding job in Europe, then we have joined 11 European countries, and we use their bases, so we are now connected to Hungary, and the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, and we have scientists from all these countries and they are used in evaluations. So, of course, we have tried to avoid any questions that are very often opened and justified and unjust in Croatia. What's important to say is that it's also been a criticism in recent years, the truth is we haven't had specific programs for humanities and humanities, but if you look at all the foundation programs that have been made, they've just been made in this way, they're actually for scientists from all over the area, so the doctorate was in humanities, he was always in natural scientists, he was always a doctorate in humanities, and natural scientists is a podoctorant, etc., that I don't list all our programs. The fact is that there was a delay in the competition of colleagues in the field of social, humanistic sciences, but slowly the younger team from these institutions is involved and are increasingly appearing in our competitions. The same applies naturally to colleagues from Dubrovnik, Zadar and other universities. So if you don't compete, you don't have a chance to pass, and of course you have to meet the standards. So it's the essence of the foundation, and that's why the foundation is formed. I would have also responded to that finding that the foundation had not fulfilled its mission, or had not approached the vision, and the vision was to promote and find individuals. We found about 350 of them, invested in them, funded them, and that's what we could do with the resources we had at our disposal. We naturally agreed and coordinated our mission with colleagues from European foundations, so we sat in joint bodies, say at the European Syence Foundation, so I sat as the president of our foundation, together with the president of the German Foundation for Science, Swiss Foundation for Science, etc., with them having 2 billion euros a year, Swiss with 600 million euros a year, Irish with a billion dollars a year, etc., and if they asked me how much we had, then it would turn out to be 10 million euros, and if they asked each year, I would say at all. So simple missions are the same, but simply what we could do with those money we made. Clearly not, the question is not simple. What we wanted to be, we wanted to be normal Europeans and so to work and to bring that culture into our research space, and what I guarantee you is our experience that there are such people in Croatia, and that is a lot, especially those of younger generations who are willing to do it, ready to compete, ready to win in competitions, and are ready to learn and adapt. So what doesn't have enough instruments to support them, which is why the foundation is designed to develop financial instruments for individuals, and that's why it's our programme of established support or... which has every European state, designed to create individuals who can compete, who can be competitive and competitive. [[You don't understand.]] And of course to get these and such individuals out, it just takes a lot more investment and a lot more political will, and I think that's the role of Parliament to define such a position. You can't just look at the minister because the minister can't have that kind of power. So it is Parliament that should connect all stakeholders in the political process through the political process and then the state administration and invest in individuals. We don't have enough and I don't think you're all aware that we don't have enough, and what I warned you about, in my opening statement, I'm warning you once more, and I'm calling for you to stop the tsunamis from happening to us because of the economic crisis that is evident, we destroy these individuals that we have and those who don't have a chance to escape out there again to work somewhere else. It's right outside the door, and we all have to be aware of that. If you want to have science, if you want to have development, you have to have long-term and stable financial instruments and people have to believe in them. We did this year, I said in the introduction, this year and last year 189 people competed with us, about 140 of them went outside as part of their doctoral programme here to learn something, transfer technology, explore and ensure the further development of their career. 140 looks a lot, but it's just too little. We have received nearly 3,000 scientific recruits over the past five, six years. They need to get their chance, if they don't get a chance then that investment isn't very cost-effective. So, in my view, the only chance we have of making any shift in anything, and getting out of the crisis, is simply to invest in these people of ours, and that's why I'm asking you to strengthen the foundation because it's a normal instrument as much as any European state, every system that's trying to develop critically is doing it in exactly that way. And we essentially just copied this practice into our environment, we created people who can do it and of course don't let what was created destroy itself so quickly because such people don't give themselves up. It's not an administration, it's far more than an administration. I'd thank you for this debate, I wouldn't bother you any further because we could talk about it for a very long time, and I hope it's as it was last year and this is my last report as president, so you'll soon resolve me and we'll continue this debate, but with a little different positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62661	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62662	We move to the Annual Report of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. The institution is the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Government and the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The annual Report of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This year's National Foundation Report was accepted by most votes, 82 votes to, 2 abstentions and 36 against. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: The Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose measures for an appropriate increase in the headship, i.e. the property of the National Foundation for Science by achieving a structure approximated to that in EU countries, taking into account, among other things, the position of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science as well as the Strategy for the Development of Scientific and Research Activities in view of the existing economic conditions to be developed by the National Science Council. Is there anyone in the name of the government? What? I suggest this conclusion, we vote on it. Here, let's get involved and vote on this proposal. The result? This committee's conclusion was accepted by the majority of votes, 110 votes for, 3 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62663	Point 7. We'll skip because there's no conditions. The parent board did not adopt its final opinion, asked for an additional opinion from the proposings, and we will continue to do so later. We move to point 8, that is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 632 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The emergency procedure shall apply in accordance with Article 1(1). 161. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Art. 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62664	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You have before you a proposal to amend and supplement the Private Protection Act. We suggest we bring her in on an emergency procedure. Namely, and the reason, the basic reason, not the only, but the main, main reason, for the government's proposal to amend and supplement this law is to align working time with the needs of security companies and security guards after the adoption of the Labour Act, i.e. after entry into force. And the reason is similar to that of another service, that is, in the fire department. The same regulation of working time would, in line with the Labour Act without exception, make it significantly difficult to carry out the security activities and, as it says in the explanation, this would make it a rule for problems and insurance companies, but would also directly affect the financial incomes, i.e. the security pay in order to significantly reduce their salaries and thus make their financial situation difficult. The second reason for the amendment and the addition, i.e. the second proposed amendment, refers to the Article. 1. which stipulates that private protection will be possible for companies and craftsmen from EU member states and European economic space by delaying the application of this article until the time of Croatia's entry into the EU, and this is what we are only harmonising ourselves with European directives and the European acquis guaranteeing freedom of movement of goods, services and work under equal conditions. And the third amendment to be provided for in Art. 2. changing one word in Art. Paragraph 2 refers to the situation that units of local self-government may require in their field of performance not only of physical protection but also of technical protection so that they can agree with private security companies to monitor those public areas which are particularly exposed to risk-related behaviour, primarily vandalism, fights, public order disturbances and peace. So, the law is short, it will settle these 3 issues that I have briefly tried to explain, and the proposal to adopt an emergency procedure is precisely the fact that we want to create the conditions as soon as possible for the security companies to be able to comply with their needs without their operations contrary to the Labour Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62665	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. There's a club debate coming up first. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62666	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It should be pointed out immediately at the outset that the HDZ Club will support this Law amending and supplementing the Private Protection Act. The Private Protection Act came into force in 2003, and amendments and additions were carried out in 2009. During these years, there has been a rapid development of the security activity resulting in a higher number of security entities authorised to carry out private protection activities. Thus, 271 companies, 125 crafts of technical protection and 194 internal guard services operate in the Republic of Croatia. It also continued to increase the number of persons who were granted a permit to carry out private protection activities. Such permission today has a total of 25,000 people. In view of the need to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis in the field of business origin rights and freedom to provide services, it is possible to carry out private protection activities for legal persons and craftsmen from EU Member States and signatories of the Treaty on European Economic Area authorised to carry out private protection activities. Since 1 January 2010, the Labour Act is in force, which, under full-time, considers 40 hours a week working hours. The Labour Act of Article 3(4) provides for the possibility to regulate, by collective agreement, the exceptions to the application of the daily and weekly rest provision in the case of the activity of the protection of persons and property. However, no exceptions to the application of the working time provision are provided. This issue is therefore governed by this draft law. It is a specific activity in which the most frequently needed private protection tasks are carried out for an uninterrupted duration, it is proposed to carry out those tasks for more than 8 hours, but not longer than 12 hours. It is, in fact, a request from employers and trade unions representing private security employees to enable them to work as they have been on day and night shifts. Due to the specificity of the work carried out continuously keeping individual facilities, the greater distance from the place of residence, the arrival at work, the absence of transport lines at night would further worsen their material status. Furthermore, the possibility of performing private protection activities on public surfaces is prescribed. The relevant Private Protection Act provides for the possibility of performing public-area physical protection activities while allowing these changes and additions to also carry out technical protection activities on public surfaces. First of all, the largest application between the different technical protection systems will certainly have a video surveillance system that will greatly contribute to increasing the level of security since a large number of public areas will be covered by the video surveillance system. The competent police authority may issue, on a proposal from the units of local self-government, an authorisation on the basis of which private protection operations will be carried out on a public surface. The legal person or craftsman who will carry out the private claim on the public surface shall inform the competent police authority no later than 24 hours before the start of the private protection business, and shall submit to his request a contract concluded with the contracting authority of those transactions. In this way, the local police department will have information on who performs private protection tasks on public areas as well as who is the client of them. Consistent application of the Private Protection Act and the related sublaws resulted in a major contribution to a significant increase in the level of security, in particular the obligation to apply the electrochemical protection of money in its transport by biotransmission or transport. The application of the electrochemical protection system for the transport and transfer of money along with other prescribed technical and physical protection systems resulted in the fact that no criminal offence has been committed in the Republic of Croatia on armored vehicles in transport, loading or unloading of money, valuables or valuables since December 2007. It is also legal and consistent to apply physical and technical protection to the protection of monetary institutions, resulting in a drastic reduction in the number of crimes of robbery or theft. The proposed amendments and amendments to the laws are in line with the representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association as well as representatives of the Guardians' Trade Union. And that's why the HDZ Club will accept this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62667	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62668	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Under the proposal of this law, Croatia's legislation is harmonised with the acquis of the EU in a way that urgently regulates nighttime or shift work of private security employees. In the future, the new Labour Act regulates this area in a way that is not relevant for this activity, and Directive 2003/8/EC allows for the possibility of specific laws to provide exceptions for certain activities. This proposal provides for the possibility of carrying out private protection activities for legal persons and craftsmen from EU Member States and signatories of the Treaty on European Economic Area. The duration of working hours of persons performing private protection tasks shall also be prescribed where such tasks are necessary for a continuous duration or duration of more than 8 hours but no longer than 12 hours. I'm using the opportunity to point out some issues with this law that regulates working hours to private protection companies and ask questions about security work. In fact, it is known that in the Republic of Croatia, security work is done by many people without a license. Such people are found in ports of state-owned institutions or private companies that have workers who can no longer work in the production or in any other segment of the company. Under the applicable law, any licensed security guard or guard in order to carry out a job must meet the legal standards – must not be punished, must be able to work health, have appropriate professional training and only after the approval of the Ministry of Justice and the police administration may take a course and take the exam. The law provides for the possibility of forming and registering internal security services within companies. For all companies that employ their employees on protection and protection, this is therefore a legal obligation. And in many examples, that is not the case, it is not respected. My question is: who is in charge and whose obligation is to control and apply legal provisions in this area, therefore in the area of private protection. And at the end of the HNS club, HSU will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62669	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62670	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Although the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Protection entered into force in March this year, given the known fact that, before the entry into the European Union, it had to comply with Croatian legislation and with its legal property, this legislative proposal allows for the exercise of the activities and private protection and legal persons and craftsmen of the Member States of the European Union and the countries signatories of the Treaty on European Economic Area which have been approved and the activities issued by the Member State of the European Union or by the signatories of the Treaty on European Economic Area. Furthermore, since the beginning of this year, the Labour Act has been in force, which, in the case of the activity of the protection of persons and property, provides for the possibility that collective agreements may regulate exceptions from the application of the provisions on daily and weekly rest. However, it does not intend to regulate and exclude the application of the provisions on working time. Although it is a specific activity, it is very often necessary to carry out private protection tasks for an uninterrupted duration. It is therefore proposed to carry out these activities for more than eight hours, but not longer than 12 hours, or as so far would allow for work in periods 12 or 24, or 12, 48 hours in night shifts. Such a solution is proposed on the basis of the request of employers and trade unions representing persons employed in private protection affairs. In fact, doing private protection jobs in shifts of eight hours, since it is the case for low-income persons, would further worsen their material status as these small incomes would also be significantly reduced. In addition, it should be taken into account the fact that persons employed in these jobs mostly live in the edges of cities, which is why they need to travel a greater distance to work, and in the nights they are also faced with a lack of public transport lines. However, legal solutions, while protecting workers' rights on the other hand, should not be a reason for wage cuts. It is necessary to create a balance, and during this economic crisis it is important to enable people to work and earn to feed themselves and their families. However, we would like to stress that it is important to make sure that such solutions are not misused to the harm of workers, and I believe that it is necessary to do everything in order to discourage and combat such behaviour. The Croatian Peasant Party's representative club will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62671	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62672	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Protection. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 632. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Protection. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 111 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62673	And now I suggest that point 9 and point 10. The final proposal of the Law on Public Executors and the Final Proposal for the Executive Law are to be brought together as we did in our first reading. Does anyone mind if we don't give it to God? There isn't. Well, then it means we put them together, so we can work together. So we're going to the 9th and 10th points. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Public Executive, Third Reading, P.Z.E. No. 581. - Final proposal of the Executive Act, third reading, P.Z.E. No. 584. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The third reading of the law shall be carried out subject to the conditions and procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure for second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Justice Committee, but only on the final proposal of the Law on Public Executors. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatiana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62674	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the third reading of the law on the executive law as well as the Law on Public Executors. The Strategic Study of the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on 30 July 2009 set out the objectives of reforming the executive system of the Republic of Croatia and this general development of an effective and effective system of enforcement and specific simplification of the executive procedure, the reduction of the duration of the executive procedure and the dispensation of courts. The new Executive Law is the result of a radical reform of the executive system in the Republic of Croatia because the exercise has been the main reason for many years for the ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary and despite the fact that it has been constantly dealing with it in an effort to improve. This is also proof of a number of amendments to the Executive Act, i.e. the novels of the Executive Law, which confirm the systematic and persistent insistence to make it effective and effective. However, with constant shifts to improve, the main obstacle to the effectiveness of the judiciary remains entirely and the main generator of the large cases in the courts. The new law introduces a public enforcement body as a new body of the executive procedure which will be fully responsible for the implementation of the implementing act. In the jurisdiction of the courts, they would leave until the enforcement is determined on the basis of a decision by a foreign court, domestic or foreign arbitration law or where it is prescribed by law or by other law to determine and/or enforce a court. The law lays down the conduct of a public enforcement officer in respect of the procuring officer of the implementation proposal as well as the handling of the legal medicinal product declared. On the basis of the Executive Director’s proposal for implementation, the public authority shall adopt an executive order and shall be authorised to choose the funds and objects of the performance on its own, as well as to amend them subsequently, or to supplement them. In this way, the debtor will be prevented from avoiding the fulfilment of his or her obligations through abuse of his or her rights. The control of the legality of the conduct of public perpetrators is ensured through the Institute of Legal Medicines decided by the Court. The law also provides for the right of the party or participants to request the court to remove irregularities committed by the public perpetrator in the implementation of the exercise. Public notaries shall determine the performance on the basis of credible documents, but from now on without the indication of the means and the subject matter of the application. Such an arrangement is necessary in order to allow a public contractor to freely choose the means and objects of the operation. The procedures for the insurance of demand will be carried out as so far by courts and public notebooks. In line with the proposals and observations raised during the debate on the draft law in the second reading, the following doubts have been removed before the relevant committees of the Croatian Parliament, as well as at the plenary session: the duality of the powers of public enforcement officers and public notaries in determining the enforcement on the basis of a credible document, the exercise on the basis of a credible document under the final proposal of the law, as well as the decision of the public notary so far, will be abandoned, while the public perpetrators will be solely responsible for the implementation of the law. Such a solution is also contained in the draft law in the first reading. The procedure for the legal medicinal product has been simplified. The control of the legality of the work of public perpetrators and public notebooks has been suspended in the first instance court. The final proposal of the law as a legal remedy is exclusively a prescribed appeal, i.e. an appeal after the expiry of the deadline. The appeal against a decision taken by a public contractor or a public notary of an executive order, a decision on enforcement and on the basis of a credible document and other decision shall be decided by the Court of First Instance, against a decision taken by the Court of First Instance, as a first-degree body in the procedure of enforcement and the procedure of insurance, such as the decision on enforcement, the decision on insurance and other decisions shall be decided by the second-degree court, which shall be only in a limited number of cases, since the court will determine and implement the exercise only where the law requires, for example in family cases, the recognition of the conduct of foreign court decisions, domestic and foreign jurisprudences, etc. The final proposal for the law is nomotechnically, linguistically and legally developed and improved. It should be pointed out that, in relation to the applicable Implementing Law, this Implementing Law has given particular attention to all those institutes that have been seen in the past practice as the main reason for the delay, i.e. which allowed the abuse of procedural powers. Thus, it is proposed that the regular and legal remedy be a complaint, instead of an arrangement so far under which, with the appeal, the regular legal remedy was also an objection. The reasons for the appeal have been reduced and simplified, the applicant is asked to make and justify the appeal by stating facts and by proposing appropriate evidence, the deadlines in which the court is obliged to make a decision on the appeal and to dispatch it. All persons and bodies managed by the register of the property of the perpetrators shall be subject to the obligation to provide data on the debtor, as well as the obligation of the executive body to obtain, under official duty from the tax authority, the personal identification number of the perpetrator, the approval of the delay of the application, only with the provision of adequate guarantees. There is no doubt that the adoption of this law and the Law on Public Conductors will make it faster and more effective, that it will contribute to reducing the backlogs in courts and result in a more effective judiciary as a whole. It will contribute to legal certainty and greater rule of law, as the ideal of every modern state. All of the above is a prerequisite for economic development and therefore a better life for citizens. As a future member of the European Union, this law will confirm that the Republic of Croatia is prepared to step into a common European and legal space, whose development is one of the priorities of the European Union. Now I'd like to say a little more detail about public enforcement, since reading both laws is united. So quite logically, the Law on Public Executives was created as a result of the reform of the executive system in the Republic of Croatia, an effective judiciary, as I said on the basis of a modern and democratic state, the more the right to a fair trial within the development period is fundamentally human law. Without effective and effective enforcement, these postulates remain only a dead letter on paper, i.e. an ineffective exercise raises the whole of the Racio and the purpose of the litigation, and the decision-making or decision-making, if they cannot ultimately be carried out or their implementation takes too long. The Institute of Public Executives is a novelty of our legal system, but this institute has long been known in many European Union countries, much more in some like France has a long tradition and enjoys great reputation, and has proved to be very effective in practice. Therefore, when drawing up this law, the best European Union standard relating to this institute has been applied. The final proposal of the Law on Public Executors was prepared for third reading in the Croatian Parliament, in relation to the final proposal for a law discussed in the second reading, amendments were made in this proposal in accordance with the amendments to the final proposal of the Executive Act. These amendments relate to the jurisdiction of public enforcement authorities, since the Implementing Law has abandoned dualism in determining enforcement on the basis of a credible IC. The exclusive jurisdiction is public notebooks. The implementing law therefore leaves the current model of judicial enforcement and enforcement and is given in the jurisdiction of public perpetrators. In the jurisdiction of the courts, it would remain only an exercise for the purpose of handing over the child to the parents, and an exercise for the purpose of meeting and socialising parents with children, as well as the provision of enforcement on the basis of a decision of the foreign court, domestic or foreign arbitration law, or where it is prescribed by law or other law to determine the court. The Law on Public Executors provides for the establishment, authority and manner of operation of a public contractor, as a public service, the choice of public perpetrators, the conditions for appointment, the criteria for determining the number of public perpetrators, their competence, powers, and obligations, liability for damages, the obligation of permanent education as a guarantee of the expertise of public perpetrators, the strict responsibility, the control system and the establishment of a firm and permanent mechanism of monitoring their work, and thus will enable and verify the financing in, the functioning of a pardon law in practice. The public service shall be established as a public service provided by public operators as independent and independent service holders having the capacity of a public trust person. A public executive may be appointed as a person who fulfils the requirements laid down in the law, which is Croatian citizenship, the final law school, the judicial and public enforcement exam, the necessary working experience after a two-year judicial examination, which is worthy of public confidence in the conduct of public enforcement calls and other conditions prescribed by this law, and appointed by the minister responsible for judicial affairs on the basis of a competition carried out by the Chamber of Public Performers. The number of public executives or public enforcement posts shall be determined by the Ministry of Justice, on the basis of the opinions obtained by the Chamber and the county courts in the Republic of Croatia, taking into account that every 80,000 inhabitants are at least 2 public perpetrators, and in the area of each county court at least 1 public perpetrator, as well as for public enforcement services and the development of economic and legal traffic. The law also provides for ways to end public enforcement services as well as how to deal with the records of the public contractor after the termination of the service. The law also provides for the obligation to ensure the liability of public perpetrators, the right to regress against employees, as well as the question of liability for damage caused by the public perpetrator for his official duty. Furthermore, the law provides for the powers of a public executive, i.e. the tasks which the public executive is authorised to undertake in the performance of the service of that type of document which the public performer draws up in the performance of his service. It is a public contractor's obligation to document all actions taken so that at any time it can be subject to control. It also provides for the regulation of the standardised form and the contents of the documents to be prescribed by a special regulation adopted by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. In addition to the conditions for the appointment of a public enforcement officer, the conditions for staff in a public executive office are laid down. Public executive deputy, assistant, clerk and trainee. Their rights and duties and the way they are appointed shall be regulated by the institution of the performer of the public performance. Public perpetrators will be organised through the Public Executive Chamber, a legal person who acquires legal personality by enrolment in the Court Register. In addition to public performers, their deputies, assistants, officials and trainees will be enrolled in it. The bodies of the chamber will be the Chamber Assembly, the Management Board and the President of the Chamber and other bodies to be established by the Statute of the Chamber. The chamber as a representative body of public executives will play a major role in the public enforcement service. One of the basic tasks will be to oversee the work of public contractors. In that sense, the chamber will co-operate with the Ministry of Justice. In fact, the law stipulates the strict responsibility of public perpetrators. It's one of the key parts of the law. Exactly the types of tight deeds are prescribed and the penalties for each of them. It's listed the tenacity of their powers. It is prescribed that the way in which these procedures are handled, the legal medicines, the outdated prosecutions and the enforcement of the firm decisions. It should be pointed out that the second-degree authority for the strict procedure will be the Ministry of Justice. This will achieve a dispersion of control over the work of public contractors, i.e. to achieve a higher degree and effectiveness of control. It is important to point out that the said urgency of the tight procedure is prescribed because the tensile rules are part of the essential law which must be in accordance with Article. Six. European Conventions on Human Rights. As the public enforcement service has already been said, it will be private, which means that public contractors will finance themselves with their work. Therefore, this law lays down the right of public contractors to the prize for work and to the compensation of the costs of carrying out official operations. The height of the prize will be prescribed by the Rules of Procedure for the Labour and Costs Award, which will be prescribed by the Chamber of Public Executives, with the consent of the Ministry of Justice. Public contractors will be obliged to keep an eye on regulated fees. Namely, public enforcement fees will be paid for the documents and actions of the public enforcement officer under the provisions of the specific rules. As one of the conditions for the appointment of a public enforcement officer, i.e. a deputy public enforcement officer, a public executive exam is also required. The conditions for the submission of the examination have also been laid down, the obligation of the Ministry to organise legal public examinations and specific courses in order to prepare candidates for the submission of exams. It is important to point out that in the transitional period i.e. to the adoption of laws, from the adoption of laws to the life of public enforcement services in practice, the Ministry of Justice has a key role to play. In addition to the Minister mentioned above, he will also prescribe a provisional Regulation on the award of work and expenses, or, where appropriate, the Ministry will carry out certain tasks which will fall within the jurisdiction of the Chamber of Public Executive. After the establishment of the chamber, it will assume the duty and obligations prescribed by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62675	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62676	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, I would like to point out that the HDZ Club supports the Final Proposal for the Executive Act as well as the Final Proposal for the Law on Public Executors. The necessity of reforming the executive system is reflected in the need to create effective and effective enforcement, given that the current system of enforcement despite a number of law novels is a major obstacle to the effectiveness of the judiciary and is the main factor in the major backlogs of the cases in courts. A statistical study by the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on 30 July 2009 set out the objectives of reforming the executive system of the Republic of Croatia - the development of an effective and effective system of enforcement and the specific - simplification of the executive procedure, the reduction of the duration of the executive procedure and the discharging of courts. In line with the objectives of the reform of the executive system, and applying the EU's best performance standards as well as the main specifics set out in Recommendation 17. The 2003 Council of Europe, under which the exercise must be governed by clear legal frameworks, with clear and simple reference to the rights, obligations, responsibilities and opportunities of all participants of the exercise with the assurance of compliance with the law and... the decision proposed by the Executive Law and the Law on Public Executives shall allow legal certainty and transparency as well as more effective enforcement of the exercise. The new laws leave the current model of judicial enforcement and implement it is given into the jurisdiction of public enforcement officers as a new body of enforcement which will be fully responsible for implementing the exercise. The procedures for the insurance of demand will be carried out as so far by courts and public notebooks. The proposed Implementing Law gave particular attention to all those institutes which have been seen in practice so far as the main reason for the delay, i.e. to enable the abuse of procedural powers. Thus, it is proposed that the regular legal remedy be not a complaint, the reduced and simplified reasons for the application be reduced, the applicant is asked to make the complaint and justify the fact and to propose the relevant evidence. Furthermore, deadlines are prescribed in which the court is obliged to make a decision on the appeal and to dispatch it, while with all persons and bodies running the registers, it prescribes the duty to provide information on the debtor as well as the obligation of the executive body to obtain, under the official duty of the Tax Administration, the Executive Director of the OIB and the approval of the delay of the application, only with the appropriate guarantees possible. The law further provides for the conduct of a public enforcement officer in respect of the executive proposal for the implementation of the exercise and the proposal for enforcement as well as the existence of a legal remedy. Namely, on the basis of the authorising officer’s proposal to carry out the exercise, the public authority shall adopt an executive order and shall be authorised to choose the means and objects of the exercise on its own and subsequently amend them or supplement them. In this way, the debtor will be prevented from avoiding the fulfilment of his or her obligation through abuse of his or her rights. The control of the legality of the conduct of public perpetrators is ensured through the Institute of Legal Medicines decided by the Court. The law also provides for the right of the party or participants to request the court to remove irregularities committed by the public perpetrator in the implementation of the exercise. Public notaries shall determine the performance on the basis of a credible... on the property on which an implementation can be carried out without reference to the means and subjects of the exercise, allowing the free selection of the funds and the subject-matter of the implementation of the exercise directly with the financial agency. The proposed law also prescribes specific conditions under which the state, municipalities, cities and counties when they participate as a party have the right to request a postponement of the exercise, while the European executive order is extended to public enforcement officers. The enforcement procedures of the court shall only be limited to those cases where it is explicitly prescribed by law. The proposed Law on Public Executors provides for the establishment of powers and the way public enforcement works as public services. It means the election of public perpetrators, the conditions for appointment, the criteria for determining the number of public perpetrators, their jurisdiction, powers and obligations, liability for damages, the obligation of permanent education, the responsibilities, the control system and the establishment of a firm and permanent monitoring mechanism for their work. The public enforcement service shall be set up as a public service provided by public operators as independent independent service holders who have the characteristics of public trust persons. A public enforcement officer may be appointed as a person who fulfils the conditions of taxation prescribed by law. The number of enforcement posts shall be determined by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the attached opinion of the chamber and of the county courts, making sure that every 80,000 inhabitants are at least two public perpetrators and at least one perpetrator in the area of each county court. Furthermore, the law prescribes ways to stop public enforcement services as well as how to deal with the records of a public contractor after the termination of the service. It is also prescribed to ensure the liability of public perpetrators, the right to regress employees, as well as the question of liability for damage caused by the public perpetrator by the exercise of his official duties. The powers of a public executive or of a public executive authorised to undertake in the performance of the service and the type of document drawn up by the public executive in the performance of the service are also laid down. The public contractor's obligation to document all actions taken to be subject to control at all times. In addition to the conditions for the appointment of a public enforcement officer, the conditions for staff in the Public Executive Office, their duty and the way in which they are appointed are laid down. It also regulates the institution of the public performer's duties. Public perpetrators themselves will be organised through a public executive chamber. In addition to public executives, their deputies, assistants, officials and trainees will also sign up. The Chamber as a representative body of public executives will play a public role in the public enforcement service with the basic task of overseeing the work of public contractors. Certainly, in that sense, the chamber will cooperate with the ministry. In view of the fact that the public service will also be private and that public contractors will be financed by their own work, the law prescribes legal public contractors to receive a reward for work and compensation for the costs of carrying out official operations. The very height of the prize will be prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Department of Justice for Labour and Cost Compensation, which will be prescribed by the Chamber of Public Executives, with the consent of the Ministry of Justice. Finally, I would like to point out that the nomotechnical, linguistic and legal progress has been made and improved by these final drafts of the law, and to take into account certain observations and proposals made in the debate, which would specifically highlight those which referred to the virtue of the powers of public enforcement officers and public notaries in determining the enforcement on the basis of a credible document and the possibility of simplifying the procedure on the occasion of the declared legal medicinal product. The implementation on the basis of a credible document will be determined by the public notaries, and the public enforcement officers will be solely responsible for carrying out the exercise, while in the case of a complaint only against the decision taken by the public enforcement officer and the public notary, the Court of First Instance decides by a decision against which no appeal is allowed. It follows that the adoption of the Implementing Law and the Implementing Law will make it faster and more effective and that this will contribute to reducing the gaps in courts as well as legal certainty and greater rule of law. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of the Executive Act as well as the Law on Public Executors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62677	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62678	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that the HNS Club, HSU, will support the Final Proposals of the Law on conduct as well as the Law on Public Executors, because we are convinced that the Proposer had a good intention to frame the problem with better quality and more effective regulations. These laws regulate complex, comprehensive and sensitive issues, and we think it has not been seen enough and considered some of the negative consequences that these bill proposals will produce. If the believer has a powerful and executive right, effective rules on the executive procedure that will speed up, simplify and cheapen the process are necessary. We made a proposal for these laws to do so and we'll show application, of course. Where the aim of this reform of the enforcement procedure is to suspend the judicial order and transfer the enforcement to the new public enforcement service, there shall be no room for provisions to initiate and implement the enforcement procedure before the court. The court would have to maintain only a supervisory post over the legality of the work of public perpetrators. We believe that the law should be completely deleted from the institution of credible documents and replaced by a payment order institute decided by public notebooks. The authentic ID first has the elements relating to the case, and only then to the case. Believers continue to have three parallel times legal protection for the same demand. That doesn't seem rational to us. Thus, the believer has the right to sue, on a payment order, on a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible instrument under the Implementing Law. We believe that the payment order institute should be re-affirmed and allowed public notaries to issue payment orders. In the event of an objection, the contested part should be discussed before the court in the manner in which this applies to the appeal of the court and the objection of the perpetrators should be treated with a response to the action. By the power vested in me, an executive would have an executive order. In this regard, we estimate that the law on which it is concerned is not important to move away from the previous insufficiently effective concept of the exercise. I would further mention unnecessary formalization that makes the believer's position difficult. For example, we are in a situation where the executive document in the application for implementation of the application must be delivered in the original or certified copy. It is for the believer an additional job and is imposed on him unnecessary costs. Of course, if he has to make a certified picture. If, therefore, the debtor considers that it is not a valid executive correction, he will challenge it whether it is original, non-original or merely certified. Further formalisation which may be the reason for the rejection of the proposal is that the applicant, therefore, does not invite the believer to supplement or correct his proposal. The situation is opposed above all to the proposal's idea of making the exercise more effective than it is today, but also to the provisions of Article 16(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because it imposes unnecessary restrictions on the believer which are not necessary under the circumstances. It is particularly important that the decision of the Court of First Instance, which decided on the perpetrator’s objection, is subject to the possibility of a higher appeal, i.e. the second-degree court. Practically, it means introducing three degrees instead of two degrees so far. It is hard to imagine that such a situation will lead to a more effective implementation which should aim at such a major reform in the area of executive law. Official but especially the Law on Public Executives also raises quite practical questions. For example, who will, when and how to train public contractors, public notebooks and judges to apply this law and how much it will cost. So final. The executive procedure should be simple, clear and rapid procedure for citizens and legal persons. This procedure should be the protection of creditors but it must also be a clear message to debtors that obligations must be met. The application of these laws as I have already said will show how much this has done under the proposal of these final laws. Once again, the HNS Club will support both of these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62679	Thank you. And it's SDP's turn, distinguished representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62680	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable promoters and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, although it is the third reading of the Executive Act and the Law on Public Executors, I must show on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia in a certain way that the Government is resilient in some solutions and one and another law which will not provide what the Government says is the reasons for the adoption of the law to simplify the procedure and to simplify the procedure. This is why we regret that until the third reading, there has been no simulation and public debate between experts, judges or at least simulated so that the Executive Law can function when a new public enforcement institute is introduced. Namely, the executive law is economic law. He assures market participants that the state will intervene through its institutions, that the market is legal. So that's one of the reasons why the new law is passed. The second reason is that a simpler procedure is being carried out, and now we're introducing this new institute but the old institutes remain. There's a public notary and there's a court. So the target was nominated but no measures were taken. Third. The reason for the new law is to reduce the court's case. There is no guarantee that this would be a valid market target, and that will allow us to doubt whether this is the right goal. That's a formal reason. The essence of the Executive Law is to establish a relationship that was agreed in a business relationship. A fair relationship, therefore, that the believer should be charged, and not that... Accumulation of cases in court. [[You don't understand.]] It's a form. Will we attract investors, investors, business people in Croatia by making the executive procedure more complicated? That would be the real reason for the adoption and simplification of the executive law and the introduction of, say, a new institute, which I don't think must be bad in principle, but since my colleague in front of me said three options for the same thing were left, I'm afraid those three possibilities will only complicate the matter. There's something else that needs to be said in principle. The government says it's an executive law, a religious law. Then she should have made the interest of the believer come to a full extent. So let's say the current practice was that it was possible to achieve the extrajudicial exercise that experts and practitioners say worked great, now in this law that the possibility was eliminated. So the third reading seems to be helpful if we don't consider the reasons why it goes into the third reading. Here the truth is that the promoter of the Government and the Ministry has made some efforts, and has improved the basic text, or the proposal for adoption, the final proposal for adoption, the Implementing Law, but the other dilemmas are whether the objectives will be achieved. I could suspect even in the government's claim that the new Implementing Law will relieve the courts, which I have already said, and there are enough laws for that, so probably next year, or when they come into force, that is 1.1 or 31 December 2011, we will have a more complicated situation, and already in 2012, I hope to supplement this law. But what is there is worth accepting the good faith of the promoter and supporting the passing of the law, but despite all this, I will say it specifically. In Article 4, the public enforcement officer may carry out the exercise in the executing home only with the approval of the competent court. If the perpetrator was given the legal opportunity to carry out certain tasks, so he got the trust of society, the state, us, why bring the court back now, and we said we'd relieve the court. There's no reason in the Constitution. The constitution has given the legislator the right way to resolve things. There's a similar problem in Article 18, so I think it would be good to reason again to vote on this law, to look again at what the practice says, what the waist says, because now I'm going to end up stressing this is politically neutral law. It does not bring if it is worse for one party, or the other party in the Croatian Parliament, and I am quite sure, that both sides want to pass a law in Croatia that will move things forward in the economy and bring confidence in the Croatian market and in the Croatian legal system. If we are looking at things in this way, then the comments from the constituency benches and the constituencies, which came from the practice of people practitioners, should be taken seriously into account and see if at least some things can be corrected by amendments until the vote. Of course we won't be against the law, but we regret that they're not better and longer left behind things to ferment to make better laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62681	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First is Honorable Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62682	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with Associates. So here it is, as in the first two readings, and this third reading brings together the debate on these two draft laws that are before us, so in the final proposal of the Executive Law and the final proposal of the Law on Public Executors. First of all, I want to say how good it is that these two laws went into third reading, because in the meantime, through the previous two readings, further improvements have been made, the comments and proposals that undoubtedly contribute to the quality of the law have been respected. Throughout all the time these laws are in the legislative procedure, countless times in the debates have highlighted the importance of the Institute of Implementation, and its importance, due to the consequences of the exercise on citizens, hence, the economy, and the general consequences of the debt religious relations. It is of paramount importance that these laws implement the outlined objectives of the reform of the executive system as set out in the Strategic Study of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 30 July 2009, which are therefore the development of an effective and effective system of enforcement, as well as the simplification and shortening of the duration of the executive procedure, which should also result in the discharging of courts. In the context of the relationship between creditors and debtors, it should be stressed that the procedure of the exercise is very sensitive. To this end, adequate protection of the credentials must be ensured, but it must also take care of the dignity of the perpetrators, to make it as unfavourable as possible, as proposed in Article 4 of the Law itself and defined. In relation to the second reading of this Final Proposal of the Implementing Law, the comments and proposals focused on the question of duality in the powers of public perpetrators and public notaries in determining the enforcement on the basis of a credible document as well as proposals relating to simplifying the treatment of legal medicinal products. The duality of public perpetrators and public notaries has been removed in such a way that the implementation of the exercise by means of a credible document remains in the exclusive jurisdiction of the public notaries, and public perpetrators would decide on a proposal to implement the implementation of the exercise on the basis of an executive document. Therefore, a number of proposals related to the nomotechnical and termological improvement of the expressions of certain provisions have been respected. Therefore, I believe that I am also convinced that this Executive Act, which primarily regulates the executive procedure and the procedure for the insurance of the search and public enforcement bodies, which introduces public enforcement officers as independent and independent public trust holders, will ensure faster, simpler and better quality implementation of the exercise that will ultimately and therefore contribute to the effectiveness of our judicial system and rule of law in this segment. So these are among other reasons why I will support the adoption of these two laws, i.e. the Executive Law and the Law on Public Executors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62683	Thank you. And distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62684	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, the distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here, unification is a debate for one law and another. The laws are in the third reading, so I will say at the very beginning that I am in favour of both the law because they are indeed the result of the reform of the executive system in the Republic of Croatia, and I think they should be seen in that very sense, therefore, seen within the framework of the overall reform of the Croatian judiciary as a whole. The legislative proposals to implement in the final instance of course understood as the outcome of any court decisions, any decisions by other state bodies should, therefore, become more effective and effective by proposing these laws. Indeed, the application of specific legal provisions of both law and law should result in 3 basics. I think they should be particularly stressed on this occasion, and this is primarily a simplification of the executive procedure. Therefore, the executive procedure should be simpler, then as regards the duration of time – the reduction of the duration of the executive procedure, so much less time should be lost in terms of carrying out the exercise and, of course, not at the end and no less important, it is the discharge of courts. Therefore, the number of executive cases in courts should be much smaller in this regard. However, when we look at conceptally or in principle, I think it is necessary to point out that it is a new model. Namely, the new arrangements for the executive procedure leave the current model of judicial exercise, therefore as a principle, as a model, and exercise of the exercise shall be given jurisdiction or in the jurisdiction of public enforcement authorities. However, in the jurisdiction of the courts there are also specific types of performances especially when we talk about status issues. Therefore, handing over the child to the parent, the exercise to meet and associate parents with the child, as well as to determine the enforcement on the basis of a decision by a foreign court or when it is prescribed by law or by other law to determine the exercise of the court. To point out that the new laws... the law regulates a separate institute, and that's at the very end of the paper that we're talking about. So, a public contractor. However, of course, it defines the way in which they are elected, the conditions for appointment, the criteria for determining the number of public contractors and everything else necessary to carry out a public enforcement activity defined as a public enforcement service carried out by public contractors as independent and independent public trust holders. Public contractors perform the service as an exclusive occupation during the time for which they are appointed. I think that details or concrete legal institutes and articles of the laws of one and the other are not particularly needed, so there is no reason why they are particularly spoken of because, in the debates that have been discussed so far, we have heard in detail everything that is actually to be heard when we talk about enforcement institutes both in law and law, but it seems to me that the third reading of the important things that have changed from the second to the third reading means, in this sense, the final proposal of the law. I think it is very important to underline this because the bill avoided this duality that appeared to us between public perpetrators and public notaries in those segments of the exercise when it came to performances on the basis of a credible document. So, in that sense, this law absolutely needs to be supported. Of course, all the law enforcement procedures are actually based on one basic principle, which is the principle of protection of creditors because that is the basic principle, the basic principle on which these standards of law actually agree. And I would not agree with those thoughts or views in the debate that duality appears in relation to public perpetrators and to court, or judicial execution when it comes to housing. The apartment is home, and home is of course a constitutional category. I'm not going to read the article. 34. Because no home can hurt, or enter it without a court order. So this legal solution is actually directly based on the provisions of the Croatian Constitution. In conclusion, I absolutely support one and the other bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62685	Thank you. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62686	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to finally thank all the esteemed representatives and MPs for the debate and the applicant accepts the amendment of the Committee on Justice, and also to amend the appreciation of the representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62687	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62688	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Public Executors. There was a third reading, P.Z.E. No. 581. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Justice and Representative Ana Lovrin. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Public Executors. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal for a law on public enforcement has been adopted by the majority of votes, 111 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62705	We move to point 11, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Court Areas and Seats, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 600 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Art. 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted jointly by representative Danica Hursa and representative Ivan Hanzek. The amendment was submitted by representative Ana Lovrin, IDS representative Zvonimir Mršić and representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tatiana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62706	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. This law establishes municipal, county and commercial courts and administrative courts and determines their areas and determines the seats in which they will operate. Under the now applicable Law on Areas of Headquarters and Courts in the Republic of Croatia, 67 municipal courts, 21 county courts and 13 commercial courts were established. This law began the process of rationalising municipal courts, which will be realised by the end of 2019 according to the dynamics of the merger of certain municipal courts. In the context of the implementation of the judicial reform, it was necessary to approach further rationalisation of the judicial network in such a way as to also approach the rationalisation of the county and trade courts. This bill proposes further rationalisation of courts and of county and commercial courts. Based on the analysis and statistical data and on the work of the courts and on the number of cases, the annual inflow of cases, the number of judges in the county courts required in accordance with the framework criteria for the work of the judges, it is proposed to establish a total of 15 county courts and determine their areas and seats as well as the areas and seats of municipal courts from the jurisdiction of each individual county court. In accordance with Article 14(2), certain county and commercial courts shall comply with Article 14(2). The law on courts is established for areas of several counties. Given the observations made in the first reading of this law in the Croatian Parliament, the final proposal proposes to establish the following county courts. The County Court in Bjelovar, Dubrovnik, Karlovac, Osijek, Pula, Rijeka, Slavonski Brod, Sisak, Split, Sibenik, Varazdin, Velika Gorica, Vukovar, Zadar and Zagreb. And according to the bill, the following county courts are joined together. The mayoral court in Bjelovar is being joined by the County Court in Virovitica. The county court in Karlovac is being joined by the County Court in Gospic. The County Court of Slavonski Brod joins the County Court in Požega. The County Court in Varazdin is being joined by the County Court in Koprivnica and Čakovec. The County Court in Zagreb is being joined by the County Court in Zlatar. This final draft of the law differs from the draft law that was in the first reading by accepting remarks that the county court in Koprivnica is joining the County Court in Varazdin, not the County Court in Bjelovar. The proposal was also accepted to join the County Court in Zlatar with the County Court in Zagreb, not the County Court in Varazdin. The proposal to streamline trade courts shall be based on statistical data on the work of commercial courts and on the number of cases which have been received and solved, the annual inflow of cases, the urgency of the court, the number of judges required in commercial courts, in accordance with the framework criteria for the work of judges, and on the basis of the analysis carried out, it is proposed to establish 7 commercial courts of the 13 commercial courts now established. The debate in the first reading of this law in the Croatian Parliament made comments and suggestions that the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik, Sibenik and Pazin and Slavonski Brod remain independent courts and that no process of merger or rationalisation is carried out. Since the analysis carried out on the basis of statistical indicators on the work of these courts, and in particular on the number of judges in a particular court and their burden on the cases given, the objections are not accepted, and it is proposed that the following commercial courts be established. Commercial court in Bjelovar, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin, Zadar and Zagreb. Commercial courts joining together are the Commercial Court in Zagreb, connecting with the Commercial Court in Karlovac and Sisak. The trade court in Split is being joined by the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik. The trade court in Zadar is being joined by the Trade Court in Sibenik. The trade court in Osijek is being joined by the Trade Court in Slavonski Brod. The Trade Court in Rijeka is being joined by the trade court in Pazin. The process of rationalisation and dynamics of the merger of those trade courts as well as the county courts will be implemented by 31 December 2019, and according to this final proposal, the laws will remain in their seats as permanent services of the courts with which they are joined. And finally, I would just like to point out now that two years after the rationalisation of municipal courts, we have certain analyses that clearly and unequivocally talk about how much rationalisation has actually brought benefits. It has been established that improvements have been achieved in the management of court cases, judges are evenly burdened with the number of cases, the possibility of specialising judges, and uniform court practice. The management of courts is also more effective in the deployment of judicial officers and substitutes and the efficiency of their work. As a result of rationalization and a reduction in the number of judges, officials and tenants, on 31st day. 1. In 2010, the number of judges was reduced by 19 judges, and the official and the undersigned by 75. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62707	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. They're clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62708	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to point out that the HDZ Club supports the Final Proposal for the Law on Areas and Seats on Courts. Today, when we are discussing the final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed as a continuation of activities to reform the judicial system and streamlining the network of courts, it is necessary to recall some important segments of rationalisation. The government of the Republic of Croatia concluded in 2007 that the process of rationalising the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia was inefficient and in economical. The process began in 2008 by streamlining the network of municipal courts in a way that since then, the existing 115 municipal courts have established 67 municipal courts. After that, in 2009, the rationalisation of criminal courts has followed in a way that since then 63 criminal courts have been established. When rationalising the network of municipal and criminal courts, the applicant also proposed a new network based on an analysis of the number of cases, the annual inflow of cases, the number of judges. The same criteria led the applicant by proposing a rationalisation of county and trade courts. Following this proposal, instead of 21 county courts have been established so far, 15 county courts are proposed while the established rationalisation of municipal courts is coordinated with the rationalisation of county courts. From the date on which 13 commercial courts have been established, this proposal establishes 7 commercial courts and provides for the resolution of disputes relating to ships and navigation at sea and inland waters and disputes to which shipping law applies. In addition to disputes relating to aircraft and air navigation law, passenger transport, protection and use of industrial property, copyright and related rights and other intellectual property rights for the protection and use of inventions and technical improvements and companies if the specific law is not different. Furthermore, the draft law lays down municipal courts of consensual jurisdiction which will not act in criminal proceedings for criminal offences for which the sentence of prison is prescribed for more than 5 to 10 years. In the civil proceedings concerning the determination or dispute of paternity or motherhood from working relationships for the correction of information and compensation incurred by the publication of information, protection from illegal activity, and the recognition of the execution of decisions by foreign courts. It is specifically about island municipal courts in Rab, Krk, Mali Losinj, Pag, Old Town and Supetar. This proposal also lays down the areas and seats of four Administrative Courts and so that each individual Administrative Court is established for the area of several counties to which the Minister of Justice must provide work space and technically equip courts in the courts' seats until 31 December 2011, since the new Law on Administrative Disputes has been applicable since 2012, and that the same law establishes administrative courts as first-degree and High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia as a second-degree court. I believe that it is good that the applicant has determined that the implementation of the rationalisation procedure takes longer to ensure the necessary working space conditions, as well as the technical equipment of the county and commercial courts in the merger-based centres, and which the dynamics of ensuring these conditions are passed by the Minister of Justice. The draft law also empowers the Minister of Justice to set up permanent services of county and commercial courts outside the court's seat by a special decision to provide for conditions for the court's work at its headquarters. Finally, I would like to point out that the applicant has implemented certain remarks and proposals made in the debate, and has installed them in this final draft of the law. On the basis of this, given that it is final activities, the rationalisation of the network of courts and judicial reform as well as the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62709	Thank you. On behalf of the CNS, HSU's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62710	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The position on this proposal for the law of the HNS and HSU club will depend on the fate of the amendments submitted. On the proposal of this law, amendments were submitted to the final proposal of this law, my colleague, Hanzek and I to the County Court in Zlatar, and counterpart Goran Richembergh is seeking his amendment to the rest of the Commercial Court in Sibenik. Here I will repeat the reasons why we Zagorci are asking for the County Court's headquarters to remain in Zlatar for the area of the Municipality of Krapina, Zlatar, Zabok and ask that the County Court be joined by the Municipality court from Zapresic. I'll repeat my reasons. This is primarily the reason this area is a geographical area. Therefore, for the users themselves a well-connected transport means that there will be a need for the users to spend less travel and less time on that seat. I'll mention another reason why we're asking the County Court to stay in Zlatar, and that's all known investment. It hasn't been ten years since this country invested more than 70 million kuna in a grand building in Zlatar. This is an extremely significant investment, and there was really one representative building built there, and there were really great conditions for the work of judges and all the other staff. By moving the County Court out of the Zlatar Government, the motionor will say much about his credibility. I'm asking what's going to happen to that building, who's going to be the users after the county court's move. 2019 is not far. It's that border year until maybe it's going to stay out in Zlatar, and what's behind it? In addition, I would like to say that by moving such a significant institution, it is lost in Zlatar but also with us in Krapina-Zagorje County. I think this judicial reform has made our first steps towards a new regionalization of our country. If these were not the reasons for the trial to remain in Krapina-Zagorje County, I do not know what we will manage to keep from the state institutions in our Krapina-Zagorje County. Thus, except that the town of Zlatar loses its ability to further develop this possibility, and this proposal loses the entire Krapina-Zagorje County. And now allow me to say a few more words about the amendment tabled by my colleague Richembergh, asking for the trade court to be held in Sibenik. I'll read the explanation, because I missed it in the second reading, and I apologize to the Sibeniks, so I'm doing it now. The only publicly stated criterion for determining the part of the legal proposal, relating to commercial courts, is that trade courts with at least 5 judges will continue to operate. This in itself is not and can be a serious and relevant criterion for the formation of trade courts in Croatia. Finally, some of the courts, say Zadar, which, according to the bill, should continue to act, have fewer than 5 judges. Commercial courts are specialized courts for the needs of the economy and its service, and if we want to recover the economy we need both up-to-date and quality trade courts. Amendments to the Law on a litigation two years ago extended the jurisdiction of commercial courts to all disputes in which at least one party is a commercial company or craftsman, which also significantly increased the scope of the business of commercial courts. A bankruptcy wave is expected, i.e. to shut down a significant number of particularly smaller companies, and a significantly higher inflow of court cases in commercial courts is expected. The trade court in Sibenik, as well as most other trade courts, are very up-to-date and are on a satisfactory level of expertise. Here are several key indicators on the work of the Trade Court in Sibenik, between 2003 and 2009. The number of court cases received ranged from 5 thousand 465 to 6000 97 per year. The number of resolved court cases ranged from 5 thousand 450 to 6000 175 a year. The number of pending court cases ranged from 242 to 602. This shows that the number of pending cases in one year ranged from 4 and a half percent to 9 and a half percent of the total number of cases received. At the beginning of 2009, there were 257 pending cases in the Commercial Court of Sibenik, during which 5 thousand 757 new cases were received, and 5 thousand 758 were solved, so that at the end of the year 256 cases remained unresolved, which is 4.26% of the total number of cases from the beginning of the year and received during the year, I said 6 thousand and 14 were, or the average monthly number of cases received during 2009 480 was significantly higher than the number of pending cases at the end of that year. If this is added to the fact that a very large number of judgments by the Trade Court in Sibenik have been confirmed in a second-degree procedure, i.e. that the relatively small number of judgments that the High Court of Commerce has abolished, then it can be concluded that the expertise of the work of the Sibenik Commercial Court is well above the average. So throughout his work, the Trade Court in Sibenik has proved to be an effective court. The team also achieved the main objective of reforming the judiciary, effectively reducing the number of pending court proceedings and shortening the length of court proceedings, which contributes to the efficiency and economics of the Croatian judicial system. This shows that there are no serious reasons for the abolition of the Commercial Court in Sibenik, i.e. the above data on the work justify not only the establishment but also the continued existence and operation of the Commercial Court in Sibenik. It can rightly be concluded that the proposed reform, hence the abolition of commercial courts, is done without real criteria, because if the criterion is that each future commercial court has at least 5 judges, why do courts with fewer than 5 judges remain, the example is that of Varazdin and Zadar. If the number of cases received is the criterion, then why is the trade court in Pazin, which according to the number of cases received in the fourth place in Croatia, has significantly more received cases than courts in Bjelovar and Varazdin, and even more than the court in Osijek. If the criterion is efficiency, and the quality of the work of the courts, then why are the most effective according to the quality of the court decisions, the most successful courts Dubrovnik, Karlovac and Sibenik. The legal reform of the judiciary should lead to the acceleration of the work of courts, especially those on which decisions are to be held for 3 to 4 years and cannot be achieved by the abolition of courts that make decisions within a few months of the start of the dispute. The reform of the judiciary in the proposed way has been completely missed. The question is what will be improved in this area by abolishing the Trade Court in Sibenik, and how much savings will be saved from the state budget. Judges of the abolished Sibenik Commercial Court will travel to Zadar and perhaps part of the officials, but will receive new judges and officials at the Trade Court in Zadar. Parties in trade disputes from Sibenik and the surrounding areas will travel to Zadar, and therefore have additional costs instead of an up-to-date and high-quality trial, likely new backlogs will occur. Here is the fate of these amendments, depending on the position of the HNS Club, HSU according to the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62711	We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I will correct the two incorrect allegations of the representative lady who says why, or why, the most effective commercial courts are being abolished. That's not true. That's not true. Just as you claim incorrectly that the judicial reform has been completely missed. Commercial courts are not abolished, they are joined together. In this case, the Trade Court in Sibenik is connecting with the Trade Court in Zadar. It is also important to emphasise, for the sake of the Croatian public, that the implementation of the network of county and commercial courts will take place by 31 December 2019 in accordance with the dynamics of ensuring the necessary working conditions, technical equipment, as well as the provision of spatial conditions for the purposes of these courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62713	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, the first distinguished representative is Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, and respected representatives of the ministry. Here we are discussing today this final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, after a long public debate on it, and there have already been words here in the Croatian Parliament in the first reading, and somehow there is always a debate that all of us who come from some areas of the Republic of Croatia advocate the retention of courts in our parts. Someone with less, someone with more arguments. As we have seen today in this debate more or less, we are all discussing holding or abolishing, i.e. the merger of certain commercial courts, and this seems to be the most controversial part of this law, and even the largest part of the amendment comes to that part of the law. The ministry's ladies set out certain criteria under which this bill is based. However, here are my predecessors who disagreed with them. I will also try to make an example of my local trade court in Pazin also prove that it is not. In fact, I can't get the impression that some criteria, some European standards, were used here, but in some cases I think the criteria were also political. Please, but I cannot be taken from the impression that the detention of the Trade Court in Bjelovar and Varazdin was somehow linked to the mayors of these cities, who, when their government left the party, their party left the government, left the party and remained firm in their support of the government. I cannot be taken from that impression, so here I am asking the representatives of the ministry to explain specifically the criteria here in front of the Croatian public why trade courts remain in Varazdin and Bjelovar, for example not in Pula, i.e. in Pazin which we have already heard that the fourth by number of cases received in the Republic of Croatia. And we know that Istria is far ahead in the number of commercial entities given the total number of inhabitants. So I just had to say that because no one said it here, and I believe that some other colleagues have the same impression. There remains the Permanent Service of the Trade Court under this proposal of the Rijeka Law, based in the city of Pazin, but my further question to you is the lady from the ministry until when these permanent services will survive, or remain, because on the same my inquiry to the Ministry's representative on one of the committees where the law was discussed I have received an answer so I can stay forever. Well, I don't know what kind of answer that is. If that's the case, then there's no need to attach the court. Namely, the trade court in Pazin began its work on 1 January 2006 with only 4 judges then, one jurisprudence officer and only 14 officials. Although systematicisation provided for 21. During 2006, the court received almost 14,000 cases, which resulted in a large number of old pending litigation cases from the Rijeka Commercial Court. Some of those lawsuits that were then passed from the Trade Court in Rijeka will now be transferred to the Trade Court in Rijeka. I think it'll only create chaos extra. Analysing the number of cases since 2006 when the court has been established so far at the Trade Court in Pazin and the number of judges, i.e. officials who are listed on the scope of the case, are in charge of comparing the figures with the number of other commercial courts in the Republic of Croatia, the conclusion is that the trade court in Pazin is fourth in the number of cases resolved while the number of judges and officials is 12th in place. With that number of employees in Pazin, for example, in 2009, the trade court resolved more than 11 thousand cases, in support of the fact that the trade court in Pazin meets the survival criteria between 7, and 8 trade courts in the Republic of Croatia, as far as we decided they would be on the basis of some criteria. In view of the framework criteria and data relating to the inflow of the case at the Trade Court in Pazin in 2008, 2009 and 2010 it is apparent that this court should require 8 judges and at least 28 employees to carry out cases in a orderly and efficient manner. Therefore, neither the criteria for the abolition of courts with fewer judges than 5 in this case are met. It should be pointed out that the Trade Court in Pazin, i.e. its court register, is the fourth largest in or on the court registers of other trade courts in the Republic of Croatia, right behind the courts in Zagreb, Rijeka and Split. According to DZS data, 9.5 thousand companies and nearly 9,000 crafts are active in the Istrian County, i.e. a total of 18 thousand 402 active business entities, which put the Istrian County fourth place behind the City of Zagreb, Split-Dalmatia County and the Primorje-Gorski County. With regard to the value of the dispute case in litigation and executive cases received in the case of 2008 for example, the Trade Court in Pazin is second in place with an amount of almost 4 billion kuna immediately between the Commercial Court in Zagreb. The nearest Istria County Commercial Court would not have taken into account the existing few days of the trade court in Pazin, but would have been the one in Rijeka which is 55 km away from Pazin, or almost 100 km from Pula, which indicates that the criteria for the distance of the nearest court are also not met, and I would also like to say this time that Istria County has only 28 km of highway. Therefore, there is sufficient evidence that I come to Zagreb for highways across Slovenia, not through Istria, because the last roads were built for World War II. On the basis of all of the above, the trade court in Pazin should be in fourth place in view of the order of priority of trade courts in the Republic of Croatia, respecting the above criteria, and given this conclusion, the Trade Court in Pazin should remain at least with those 7 and 8 trade courts in the Republic of Croatia, respectively. I will trace what I have said, i.e. me and my colleague Kozlevac, who we are coming from Istria, we have filed before the SDP club also an amendment to this bill, and I am going to let my colleague, Miletic, who is our colleague and mayor of Pula, propose to consider supporting the government, so maybe the trade court would not be in Pazin, but in Pula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62715	We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62716	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Vrbat, who says the last roads were built in Istria after World War II. Well, Mrs. Vrbat, you should at least know who you are from Istria, and I come very often to Istria because I was born in Pula, so there is a really big and valuable investment for Istria, and one leg of that Istrian ipsilon will be opened at the beginning of the tourist season, so next year. Then, of course, there is also a project for the second stage of the Istrian Ipsilon, or another leg that goes from Kamfanar to Matulj. You from Istria should know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62717	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62718	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. I have actually reported a hearing to express my dissatisfaction with the proposal in this law, or the fact that this law proposes the accession of the County Court to the Mayor's Court in Varazdin. Namely, such a sequence of events could be predicted at the time when the Prelog municipal court was attached to the Municipal Court in Čakovec and then it was actually created that alibi for the abolishing of the county court in Čakovec because it was not rational for the county court to only one municipal court. Unfortunately, however, it is not the end of the story because the suspension of the county court is due to the suspension of the county state's attorney's office. It's actually a law firm that we remember yesterday, the state's attorney general had nothing but praise for its efficiency and excellent work. I still do not understand the application of the declared criteria for these attachments because, for example, the County Court in Sibenik, which is the same as the one in Čakovec, including the two municipal courts in Knin and Sibenik. And according to a series of indicators, it's smaller than the Mayor's Court in Čakovec, less efficient than the County Court in Čakovec. I must say that under the cover of the rationalisation of public administration, the Međimurje County is in this way literally and devast and provincealized because unfortunately other public services will go after courts and lawyers, and that is in any case a shower of further development of the local economy. So, I won't be long. I've shown my dissatisfaction. In my view, this proposal is not a rationalisation but one of the additional centralisations and such a pre-centralised state that they cannot possibly agree with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62719	Thank you. It's our guest, Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62720	Dear Vice President, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So all the things we should have said about this law we've already spoken about, all the fights we've fought or won or lost have already ended and in fact this is the finale of a story that everyone's unhappy with. Frankly, I would not like to be in a situation where the promoters are in because no solution, no matter how reasonable and rational or no matter how bad, will experience praise but will experience an objection. Some rejoice, some for no reason, others are also sad for no reason at all. The fact is that, unfortunately, in all these reorganisations, politics and political decisions have too much influence. But the fact is that those who think differently about these proposals do not have enough hands. But we are left with this debate in which we can express some of the arguments that we believe might have been better done. A colleague of Hursa mentioned 70 million kunas was invested in the County Court in Zlatar. I personally was not a big supporter of that solution and such a decision, because I think it was far more important for Zlatar to develop the economy and to invest in the economy, and that some other solutions were appropriate for the example of the development of the judiciary and the judiciary. But now it's questionable if we're throwing rationalization into the basket. All arguments that stand that a longer period of time will be to not end the functioning of the court, but to obtain a unique leadership, that cases, unfortunately not sufficiently highlighted, will be more easily deployed to several of these former county courts, which are all arguments that stand, and not to say that the uniform management of such a system has its advantages. But I think one of the best arguments that we've talked about in the Zagorje area is that we are forever divided into all political systems. And Zagorje is geographical to remind those who do not know the Zgreba Mountain orte Sljeme, the western slopes of Kalnik, Ivančica, Strahinčica, Maceljska gora and the Sutla River. The most accurate and impoverished of all scientists recognized the area of Croatian Zagorje but that Zagorje had never actually functioned because in every system and every reorganisation was shared in ways that are now 40% in Zagreb County, 60% in Krapina-Zagorska. And if we could and could, and the state could unite some functions at regional level. In this part, especially if adequate roads are built in the eastern part of Zagorje, then I think such a solution would be good. As far as trade courts are concerned, we've had the thought of organising a trade court within such a county court. Namely, the current organisation via the Zagreb Commercial Court is the fact that it is the largest court with an extremely large number of cases, and that the same kind of offices of the Commercial Court in Zagreb from Zagreb to Zlatar would allow faster and more efficient functioning, regardless of what we are all aware of that a certain perspective of the development of e-commerce especially in the trade section from the register to the change of data, will actually become irrelevant where the commercial court is based. And those who have to end up in some litigation procedure for them is anyway, as the State Secretary for County Courts said, that most often it is not a transport problem, because those who are involved in activities in a commercial court as parties are being brought along with stamps. Here's one more time for the public vote and let the public hear that we fought and tried to fight for a better solution for us. I must say, we are humblely done with being satisfied with this amendment that has been made with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62721	Thank you. Now it's up to the Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62722	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since the debate I had heard from colleagues who had been before me was mostly reduced to opposing the abolition of certain courts of these or those levels, i.e. trade, county, municipal or other in one part of me, I would like to share my partial satisfaction with the fact that in one law we have received three networks of courts - therefore county, commercial and administrative, and that it is actually one of three menus of vision of the future territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. So we have a 15-year-old I don't know how many county courts are now, which would basically fit the country's current territorial structure, although I do believe that a network of county courts should already be called county courts and that there is no need for certain counties to remain without their county courts. So if there was a more serious change, if the number of courts had been reduced to 7, 8 then maybe that would make sense. But like this, when in fact three, four counties remain without their county courts, I don't think the reform of the judiciary would have suffered much if in that part we had followed the territorial structure of Croatia and that all the counties had their county courts and that's what it's called. Also, the boundaries of the area of municipal courts are more or less monitored not by the borders of the existing municipalities and cities but by the borders of what was until 1993. So, former municipalities and that it is more than one territorial structure of municipal courts that has survived for a long time, and those in alleged signs of political courts that have been established in the last ten years are now being abolished by this reform. Thus, it is obvious that in that part we are well back to the system that existed before. When there is already a County Court in Split and there is already a County Court in Dubrovnik, it would be very logical for the area of these courts to follow the county borders. Because of showing the political power of certain leaders then of the Croatian Democratic Community, and today of the Croatian Parliament, the area of the town of Vrgorac despite the county border came under the influence of the Municipal Court in Metkovic, and in the second degree the County Court in Dubrovnik. It's kind of a illogical thing. In addition, our colleague Mr. Matkovic, who was the mayor of Vrgorca and who was representative of the return of Mr. Bačić to the Parliament, also gave the amendment as mayor so that the area of the town of Vrgorca could return to the area of the County Court in Split and the Municipal Court in Makarska. Meanwhile, a large stone fell on the road between Makarska and Vrgorec, making their communication a little difficult. I hope he gets removed. The citizens of Vrgorca are thus under the jurisdiction of the County Court in Split, and there is really no reason to remain such a solution to keep the town of Vrgorac under the influence of the Municipal Court in Metkovic. It is therefore a purely political decision and will be changed once the political circumstances change. In the first debate on this law, I also suggested that the opposite of what I have now proposed to be honest, that due to the easier access of citizens, the Municipal Court in Lastovo, despite being located in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, also comes under the jurisdiction of the County Court in Split and the Municipal Court in Split and not in Korčula. But I'm not going to make that proposal. So I think that it should be that the borders of the county should be those that are the limits of the county courts and therefore I remain with the proposal that Vrgorac return to the Split-Dalmatia County more in this judicial sense, so that it is much better connected to Makarska than Metkovic, and especially because it is much better connected with Split than with Dubrovnik for citizens who should solve their problems in the second degree. Of course, from this solution of trade courts, and also from the solutions of administrative courts, you can already read some outlines of the future territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, and in this sense I expect further amendments to this Act. Because this is the final draft of the law, but the debate on the borders of the courts will obviously remain infinite because there will always be some attachments, the merger of reforms etc. But what is important, therefore, is that our judiciary with one or another network of courts comes to that level that will allow us to complete negotiations and to join the European Union as soon as possible. A more detailed explanation of the amendment will be in the debate on amendments unless it is accepted. And in that sense so much of me for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62723	Thank you. And distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Well, unfortunately, what we were afraid of in Dubrovnik, or Dubrovnik-Neretva County, will seem to happen. What was feared will happen will be the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and the employees of the Trade Court and all those who were at the meetings that we had on this issue. Therefore, it is clear that I will speak today, I am saddened by the fact that the Dubrovnik Commercial Court belongs to Split. You don't need to talk about the number of commercial entities, about the high values of disputes that are this way they're actually trapped. In fact, the economy is a key driver of society and, of course, requires the availability of the court, and that is why I will say that this decision is harmful to Dubrovnik, harmful to Dubrovnik-Neretva County. I am aware of this and I also said in the last debate that the statistics on the number of cases do not place Dubrovnik Commercial Court among the seven largest commercial courts, but I also spoke last time and I will now repeat all those factors that should have left the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik, do not attach it to the Commercial Court in Split. Namely, the Dubrovnik Commercial Court has not had any objections since its establishment and has been evaluated by very good grades for its work. Remember Dubrovnik tradition, remember Dubrovnik through history and today, remember trade and maritime trade. I must also say, the historical fact is that since 1812 it is actually when it is still in the Illyrian province when a trade court is established. Let us also remember today, the perspective of the development of the potential of Dubrovnik, or Dubrovnik-Neretva County, or our economy. Therefore, these are all factors that show the need for the survival of the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik itself. I must stress the isolation of the rest of the country, bordering Bosnia and Herzegovina. You know that soon it will become a real border, a dam towards Europe, so-called. The Schengen border. Everyone who's been in Dubrovnik this summer, the county, we've seen how much we've been waiting for at that border crossing. Not to mention traffic isolation. You know how long it takes to get to Split. The Dubrovnik-Neretva County doesn't have a mile of highway. It won't even be obvious. Also Dubrovnik data is the third port of the Mediterranean, 10th in the world for ships on circular voyages, etc., etc. In addition, I will say one more thing, which is that the current building, in fact, the staying of the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik, avoids even special overheads and electricity, and water, heating, security service, maintenance, because in one place in Dubrovnik, there is also a municipal court in one location, County, Infringement, County State Attorney's Office, Municipal State's Attorney's Office, which actually saves, financial savings, because now, by joining the Commercial Court in Split, there will be new financial expenditures. Therefore, by abolishing Dubrovnik, the Dubrovnik Court of Justice, not by abolishing, by correcting the merger of Dubrovnik Commercial Court with Split, the quality and commitment of work are denied, the updated settlement of cases is denied, and the perspective in terms of post-crisis viewing is the period of investment development, hence the perspective of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the strengthening of the economy, thus this decision is harmful to the development of the Dubrovnik economy and Dubrovnik Neretva County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62725	Thank you. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Dear Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am not going to bother you for long, but it's also a late hour, which you would say, and you're tired, but here I have to make some points, there are certain questions that deserve and answers. Namely, what I want to underline, and what I want to say is the fact that no political criteria have been conducted by the Ministry of Justice in the evaluation and which courts should be associated with which, they have been managed exclusively and only really objective criteria, and the indicators that have set out the path that the courts will attach to which courts. The issue was touched by the court in Varazdin, Bjelovar and Pazin. Speaking of which, the court in Varazdin has an inflow of six judges, currently four of them are under appeal for two more judges, so there will be six. There are seven judges in Bjelovar. If I tell you that framework criteria, or 5 judges is the lower limit of rational action of a particular court, then there are four judges in Pazin. Also when talking about the number of objects, the number and the inflow of objects must be taken into account that not every object is to say the same object. You have the subject of the so-called. the case-laws which are then set out in the framework criteria of 300 such litigation cases per judge, whereas the cases being conducted in different amendments or amendments to the register, must be subject to a judge of 6 thousand, therefore not only to the inflow of the case which is the only measure, but to be taken into account and to which the cases are concerned. As for the County Court in Sibenik, the County Court in Sibenik has 3 thousand and 600 cases a year, and the County Court in Čakovec has a thousand and 200 cases a year. The County Court in Sibenik has 13 judges, and the County Court in Čakovec has 8 judges, and according to framework standards in Sibenik there should be more, in Čakovec less. As far as the County and Municipal Court buildings in Zlatar are concerned, and the funds spent on its reconstruction, so it's basic all the time we're talking about bringing the courts together, so it's not about abolishing the courts and it's not about the absence of these courts anymore. It will remain the permanent seats of those courts until at least 2019. For all those courts that are estimated to remain still, they will remain. So it's not about the suspension, it's not about the termination of the work, it's about the merger. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62727	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62728	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. You have before you a proposal for the Cooperatives Act. Introductoryly, I would like to say that cooperation in the Republic of Croatia has a 140-year tradition, that the Cooperatives Act was passed in 1995, that so far there have been two amendments and additions in 2001 and 2002, and one of the basic reasons why we have approached the new law is to solve all those problems in practice that have proved to be significant in the current period. What is the fact that we in the Republic of Croatia, on the one hand, have the growth of the number of cooperatives, but on the other, we do not have the development of cooperatives as we would like. Why is that? Because our entrepreneurs, under the existing legal framework, chose the legal organisational form of cooperative, means the legislator allowed them to do so, and so they were unable to establish a company because they may not have had the available and necessary 20 thousand kunas of underlying capital plus the costs of setting up a company or could not meet the conditions if it was tied up and many cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia are registered as cooperatives, and that their founders never had any intention nor today do they operate as cooperatives. The aim is to apply this law, which rests on cooperative principles, to the mandatory application of cooperative principles. And the novelty of this law is the introduction of a cooperative audit institute that has meaning, which will have the task of just controlling whether the cooperatives that operate in the Republic of Croatia actually operate as cooperatives and on cooperative principles. In addition, one of the fundamental changes is the change in the number of cooperative members by 3, meaning the founders of the cooperative, from 3 to 7 because it has just proved that the large number of cooperatives that were founded means with that minimum number of founders with 3 founders never later developed, failed to bring together a larger number of cooperatives. And so they don't even do business as cooperatives. Similarly, what should be pointed out is the specificity of cooperatives in relation to other legal organisational forms, trades and companies. So the cooperative is definitely a society of persons, not a society of capital, it has its specialities and therefore are certain changes in this law. Similarly, what needs to be pointed out and what has often proved to be a problem so far through cooperative operations is an undefined and clear relationship between cooperatives and cooperatives, i.e. this relationship was not clearly defined through the law and were not clear mutual rights and obligations between cooperatives and cooperatives and, consequently, in the implementation in practice, we had a number of problems. This new legislative proposal provides for a commitment to conclude a contract between each cooperative and the cooperative. It should also be said that regardless of what we have done to produce this legislative proposal, we have worked for a little more than a year to conclude that, at the time when we were in conclusion, this law is one of the measures of economic recovery and this from the programme of simplifying the business of small-economic operators. And I will now highlight the meaning in which part of it is a simplification and in which part is the discharge of small-economic operators because cooperatives are made up of small-economic development laws, small- and medium-sized companies, which makes the subjects of a small economy. What's a simplification? Simplification means that the cooperative's core and founding act is that they are cooperative rules, that the cooperative rules are signed by the president of the Cooperative Assembly, and that the public notary only confirms it. What is it when we talk about discharging small economy entities? It is a new provision that the cooperatives will no longer be obliged to pay mandatory membership fees and contributions to the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives. I'd still like to say a few words about the cooperative system because there's been a lot of debate about it. So, at this point, we have the Croatian Union of Cooperatives as a roof institution and we have cooperative alliances that have a long tradition in the Republic of Croatia, which have their own property. The aim is through the implementation of this law and this legislative proposal that this cooperative, this support to cooperation through the Croatian Association of Cooperatives and through the Associations of Unity and Primary Tasks and the Croatian Association of Cooperatives and Associations is to focus not on themselves, not on their mutual relations but on the development and promotion of cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia. But it should also be pointed out that this new solution will in no way compromise the existence and existence of the Croatian Union of cooperatives. However, the implementation of this new law right in front of this institution and that institution puts great obligations and great roles and tasks in order to bring the process of harmonising existing cooperatives with the meaning of this law to an end as quickly and as easy as possible for our cooperatives. Another issue is very important, which is still current, still in the Republic of Croatia, and this is a question related to the property of cooperatives, meaning those cooperatives that were founded before. So this legal solution with certain corrections, here's what we've now seen through committees, so as a proposal we're going to have to add that we've had some failures. In any case, the intensity of this law is to protect the meaning of cooperative property, but also to protect state property and do not allow it to mean that, through interpretation or implementation of a certain legal solution, the event and the implementation of certain processes means changing ownership relations, and I say all with the aim of retaining and preserving cooperative property and cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia. And of course, as the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which is responsible for promoting entrepreneurship in general, we have also taken into account in the drafting of this legislative proposal how its implementation will in practice reflect on other small-scale operators, and here we must say that it is also very important, and this is also one of the economic recovery measures to bring about amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies that will enable the launch of so-called. The simple d.o.o. which will then mean all these cooperatives that have been founded so far as cooperatives, and not operating as cooperatives, means they can reregister. And it also means that the entrepreneurial potential that exists in the Republic of Croatia is that the establishment and start of work of small-economic operators is to be simplified as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62729	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate and the clubs are up. First is the HDZ club, the esteemed representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62730	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have heard before us is a proposal of a brand new Cooperatives Act that we most simply seek to adapt Croatian legislation to international but above all European standards and thus make it complementary with European and qualified to join the family of European cooperatives. In order to succeed, we need a legislative framework that will implement the same rules of cooperative organisation and cooperative values and principles that will, as is the case in European countries, have an impact on the development of cooperation and make it a very important factor for the economic but overall social development of the Republic of Croatia. This is why the HDZ Representatives Club will support the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Cooperatives and also express hope because of the fact that it is a debate in the first reading that it will be constructive and will result in certain numerous also constructive proposals that will ultimately contribute to the quality of this law. I will only mention here that on both the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Economy, there was a rather constructive debate and there were also a lot of constructive proposals and we hope that the Proposer will adopt and install in the final draft legislation. Since the organisation of cooperatives as a special form of entrepreneurship is of great importance in international terms. I'm going to bring up some information that I've personally never known and that's kind of impressed them. And they are listed in the opening section of this bill. So it's about the fact that the world's cooperatives have over 800 million members and over 100 million employees, and that nearly three billion people are making one part of their existential income from cooperative incomes. It should also be said that there are 300 000 cooperatives in the EU with around 5 million jobs and that the EU is systematically working to encourage the development of cooperatives. Not only the development of cooperatives in individual members but also the development of cooperatives at EU level therefore encourages the establishment of a European cooperative. It is important to mention here that, just over two years ago, the Republic of Croatia passed a Law on the introduction of a European cooperative into the Republic of Croatia, which will only be applied since the entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to cooperation in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to say that in its 140-year tradition of development it has its ups and downs. The downfalls were the most pronounced in times of socialist rule when cooperatives were abused to achieve certain political goals that had absolutely no connection with true cooperatives, and the consequences of that time are felt in our cooperative today. The previous situation has been slightly improved by the adoption of a new law, hence the applicable 1995 law and, above all, its amendments and additions from 2001 and 2002. So today in the Republic of Croatia we have two thousand 386 cooperatives registered. It should be noted that the largest number of cooperatives was registered between 2002 and 2010. Although certain problems related to the business of cooperatives were then solved and the identified shortcomings should be objective and said that the applicable law in today's conditions does not meet the needs of cooperatives and cooperatives to a sufficient extent. Since many misunderstandings and problems arise in practice regarding the interpretation and application of certain provisions such as those related to the establishment of cooperatives, the convocation of the assembly, the decision-making of the assembly, the representation of the assembly, etc. Also, the applicable law does not address the issues of cooperative relations and its members at all and does not address the issues of the application of cooperative values and principles. So those issues that they co-operate and make cooperative and by which the cooperative differs from all other entities. It is precisely for the above reasons and technical inability to repair existing legal solutions that have been approached by a proposal for a brand new Cooperative Act that is significantly more appropriate to the needs of cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia and which fully implements international and European standards. And here in the end I'm only going to say in the shortest lines what's actually being arranged by the proposed Cooperative Act. Therefore, the following issues are arranged for the establishment of cooperatives, cooperative membership, cooperative bodies, cooperative property, cooperative business, conditions and method of termination of cooperatives, the Croatian Cooperative Union and the Association Union, the Cooperative Audit and the specificities of certain forms of cooperatives listed in the law. It should also be said that, in accordance with the transitional and final provisions of the bill, existing cooperatives are required within one year of the date of entry into force of this law to comply with their work and general acts with its provisions. Otherwise, they are obliged to initiate the procedure for the termination of the cooperative by liquidating or reshaping the cooperative into a company, of course, if they satisfy the necessary conditions for other specific regulations. And in the end, I will say by respecting all this previously said but also by calling on the promoter on behalf of the HDZ Club that indeed all those remarks and all those proposals that have been made and which will be presented in this debate to try to be incorporated into this law, because it will certainly contribute to the quality of this law when it is delivered to the Parliament for discussion in the final proposal. Of course, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the proposed Cooperatives Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62731	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62732	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal of the Cooperative Act is certainly the law that we need, the law that needs to be supported, but certainly each one of us is ready to support that law that will essentially develop cooperatives, the law that will encourage cooperatives, the law that will enable people to create opportunities through cooperatives to create new... values. And definitely one basis is extremely necessary in the overall development of the economy. Immediately in the introduction we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian party of pensioners are not sure, but we are almost certain that this bill that we received in the first reading does not make it possible. I'll tell you why and why. Before that, the opening fact is that according to the data on 31 December 2009, we have 2386 cooperatives enrolled in the court register. However, the fact is that in 2009, the final account was handed over by 1125 cooperatives. So we have 2386 registered, and 1125 handed over the final bill. What happened? Why? For what? Whether it's that lever I'm going to take or I'm going to use better the opportunities of goodness, under quotes of the goodness of the state, to provide for the cooperatives, and when I crack it, the rest is what's left. Therefore, I think that, without any intention to defend any system, but I think that this sentence in the opening, at the time of socialism, there was an abuse of cooperativeism to achieve objectives that were not very likely to exist with the cooperative itself, but at the same time I think that the representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the taxpayers have the right to know what is going on with the funds, the budgetary means that paid various cooperatives in terms of the support of these cooperatives, the development of cooperatives, which is certainly one noble idea if this data, and for this information we have no explanation, we have no explanation for why more than half of the participating cooperatives in the court register, have not submitted their final account. I speak on the database in 2009. Furthermore, I am the text of the law. Article 11 of the Cooperative Memberships shall state an agreement on the co-operation and death of a natural person, the withdrawal of members from the cooperative and the termination of the cooperative. We at the HNS Club, the Croatian Retirement Party think it is mandatory to enter then and the category of exclusion from the cooperative with the more the category is in Article 19. In fact, I state these things purely because of the consistency of certain articles that we believe are not related in this legislative proposal and that in this legislative proposal they even take the liberty of including in the legislative proposal something that is a matter of agreement, which is a matter of acts of the cooperative itself and of the regulations that cooperatives must agree between themselves with the statutes and other regulations. We further have Article 22, which regulates the Supervisory Board, which provides the possibility for the Supervisory Board, to carry out the tasks of the Assembly instead of the Supervisory Board, but at the same time, in the event that the Supervisory Board suspends decisions and actions of the Directors, it must request a meeting of the Assembly which has some logic, but I think it would be good and good and useful, above all, because of future cooperatives and existing cooperatives, to clarify this item. Furthermore, Article 29(3): "The cooperative may sell or rent to those who are not in the cooperative’s function, and the funds achieved are to focus on the cooperative’s business." We at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Pensioners believe that this provision is completely unnecessary because it is a matter of business policy of the cooperative and I don't think part of the business policy of the cooperative should be determined legally. Furthermore a very interesting position, this is the role of a person who is not a member of the cooperative Article 31. What does that bet mean? Is that a loan or what's the difference between a loan and that role? What interest arises from that possibility. The role, I'm talking about the role of a person who is not a member of the cooperative. And I tried to dissipate it several times, and we at the club tried to dissipate it, but we failed to come to the sense of attitude 4, which says, "The rules of the cooperative may be laid down that the investor's representative is elected in a way defined by the cooperative rules," we understand that "we can speak to the Cooperative Assembly of Investors about the business of cooperatives or decisions of the Assembly" and we understand that. But we still don't understand this "if they had an impact on the security and charging of their roles". It is likely a good intention in a very clumsy way, so it would be good to explain it in the bill that we will receive in the second reading. Article 33 which regulates the performance and activities of the cooperative, paragraph 4: "The cooperative is obliged to comply with the principles... The third party's memberships, which are longer than three years, shall operate by cooperative or use its services at least once every three years in writing, shall notify the conditions for obtaining membership in the cooperative." Why three years? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why isn't it four, why isn't it two, why isn't it five, six? We believe that this is a completely pointless provision, because it is a provision that enters the Statute and the Cooperative Regulation and there is no need for it to be in the legal text, that cooperatives must open up space to future members that is absolutely certain and should be written in the law. But to limit it to three years we really don't see why and why, but if we ask her why it's not two, why isn't it a year and why isn't it five? It's an arbitrary provision. Why? Article 36, which has also caused a lot of resistance in existing cooperatives, which prescribes a way of distribution of profits and, among other things, says that at least 30% must go for the development of cooperatives, to at least 5% in compulsory reserves, as long as those reserves reach the total amount of members' roles, etc., etc. So our question is why is it prescribed, something that is the subject of a cooperative decision. It would also make sense that some countries do so, in terms of encouraging cooperative development, cooperatives release income tax payments. And then there's a logic to be installed inside, that a minimum 30% gain must enter the development of a cooperative. That makes sense. And every responsible state that really wants to truly encourage the development of cooperativeship is thinking about such instruments, and the fact is that, apart from those opportunities that arise, I'm going to say again to the welfare of the state because of the development of cooperatives, individuals are very skillful in using, so we have this statistical data on established registered cooperatives and cooperatives that have handed over their final account. We've simply enabled manipulation. So if we want to encourage cooperatives, let's let those cooperatives have capital weakness, that's why they're cooperatives, that's why they're developing, let's free them from profit taxes, let's put it inside... profit tax, but then, in an adequate percentage, they must necessarily be allocated to the development of cooperatives and compulsory reserves. [[You don't understand.]] Article 38 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that the conditions laid down in The rules of the cooperative must be laid down that the manager of cooperatives etc., etc., that is fine, but our question is why the legal text states the sea. It's a matter of co-operative arrangement. It would be more logical if it were to write the cooperative rules that the cooperative manager, members, cooperative workers, could, without the consent of the cooperative assembly, independently carry out activities that are part of the cooperative’s activities, etc. etc. This space of reconciliation between the cooperative alliances and the Croatian Agricultural Association which obviously does not work and obviously there is conflict, we do not want to enter the Croatian People's Party club and the Croatian Party of Retirement, it is a matter of the promoter to take measures... by agreement, by conversation, we had a very intense debate on the Committee on Agriculture, but when I speak fierce, dynamic discussion with arguments, very strong, but the fact is that these people didn't sit down, or sit down with some, but not with everyone sitting down, in the making of this bill. [[You don't understand.]] So we suggest that for a second reading, you sit down with all the cooperatives, you find a common language, that no one is particularly favored. And finally from this text of the bill, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired don't see what are the cooperative principles, what are the specificities, how to ensure the shifts, other than the normative regulation of certain things that have no logic and will create problems in practice, and finally we need the Co-operation Act for the development of cooperatives, and not for some control functions, and believe me, it's a very strange definition of audits, cooperative audits. What does that mean? In addition to the entire total control mechanism in this country, we are still introducing some kind of cooperative audit mechanism. Who's doing it? Where's he doing it? Why is she doing it? What's he working for? Why isn't the others working? Itd., etc. We would also like to give support to the representatives of the ministry at agreement and agreement, and we hope that all these remarks will be taken into account when making a final proposal for the text of the law, and above all in agreement with those people to whom this legislative proposal applies, because of them, and not because of some form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62733	Thank you. Now it's SDP's turn, distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62734	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is good to go with the new Cooperatives Act, for surely the existing law has certain limitations. Since this is the first reading, we will accept it in the first reading, of course we also suggest to the Proposer to consider all the legitimate remarks made on the parliamentary committees and to preferably include them in the text that will be proposed during the second reading. I'd like to say something in general about cooperativeship, and what really should be ensured through the Cooperatives Act. Cooperativeism is a worldwide recognition of the movement that began in the early 19th century, and in practice it has proved to enlarge and enrich not only the individual, but also the community in which it operates. It should be said that Dalmatia was a cradle of cooperatives in Croatia, as in 1864 the first cooperative was founded in Korcula and already in 1907 the Association of Dalmatia. What exactly should the law ensure? Fundamental cooperative principles should be ensured, which are voluntary and open membership, democratic oversight in the hands of membership, economic participation of members, independence and independence, education, training and informing members, cooperation between cooperatives, and the care of the community. Through the law, the basic objectives of the cooperative should be ensured, which is that it achieves the interests of its membership. The main motives for cooperative association should be common, through joint investments, reduction of production costs, a more efficient market performance, and that both they and the community are developed and enriched through the community as a whole. The benefits of association with the cooperative are continuous offers, larger quantities of products which as individuals cannot satisfy and thus actually compete with larger customers, ensure more favourable prices of reproductive material, have more power to negotiate with potential customers, then use money, machines, equipment and human potentials more rationally. The possibility of connecting more cooperatives and increasing competitiveness through joint planning and marketing activities. Croatia, as I have already said, has a tradition of cooperativeism for more than a century and over time has been going through different stages from blooming to total marginalization. During the conversion of the 1990s, the state gave priority to the companies of capital over cooperative organisation. This has left economic sectors separated, and this in particular relates to agricultural production and processing plants which are left to merciless foreign competition. Although in the last decade, attempts to restore cooperatives have not even been achieved in the sense of modern achievements in this area because cooperatives are still seen as the institutions of the socialist system. Co-operation can be a key factor in the development of agriculture, as well as in crafts, housing, small and medium enterprises and an efficient way of joining world flows, i.e. becoming a third sector that can create a significant number of jobs. Especially should the accent be given here on the so-called so-called. the social sector through cooperatives, which is a newspaper and for our opportunities in Croatia. Unlike other forms of association, cooperative producers have both market and social characteristics. Co-operation seeks to make every man a worker and owner and develop a sense of responsibility that is also linked to ownership, but which is also linked to the interests of the common good. Unlike private companies with sole responsibility to the owner of the capital, the cooperative also insists on social responsibility for the community. Cooperatives as their own oasis of balance between market values and social values can remain in any society. The special importance of cooperative organisation today in Croatia is in agriculture. Market economy and agricultural economies are increasingly marketable and less naturally oriented. Unfortunately, the association of family economies makes the current and upcoming globalisation productive and marketable and their individual inability to engage in it. The Cooperative Act, which was passed back in '95. For years, he's had two changes and, of course, he's shown certain limitations. Although certain activities are being undertaken and in financial terms, a positive relationship with cooperatives is being affirmed in people. In our cooperatives members especially in those older, previously established members are mainly employees of cooperatives, and the number of cooperative farmers is insufficient to be a decisive factor in the ownership structure. Agricultural holdings with cooperatives have contracts on business or production cooperation as well as with other companies and do not decide on important business and development and distribution issues. It is therefore necessary from the level of state, but also from local communities to affirm the positive side of cooperative organisation and to highlight all their advantages. One study a few years ago on a sample of 130 leaders of family farms on the issue of what is the main advantage of cooperative organisation the answer was a secure placement that cannot individually be achieved. In other words, most cooperative economies only see the necessary exit in the difficult offer of their products as individuals. In 2003, a Croatian cooperative strategy was presented as part of the CARDS programme. It provided for the establishment of the Cooperative Development Agency and the Cooperative Development Bank. Like many strategies that were adopted in Croatia, only a dead letter remains on paper. This bill, as I said, represents progress in the cooperative legislation. Under the current economic conditions and conditions of low employment in Croatia, cooperatives can be one of the levers of developing particularly rural areas and increasing primarily employment itself. In order to achieve this, it is not enough to have only a legislative framework but also to provide material and professional assistance in their organisation. I would like to highlight here a good project of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in cooperation with the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb on the scientific project Association in strengthening the competitiveness of family agriculture. It would be good if similar projects were financed from the level of the state budget which would, in fact, find the utilitarian value of our people who would be willing to organise themselves in such forms and thus provide themselves with a job and existence. So we'll accept this bill in the first reading. We ask that so far the observations made, especially those which were on the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, try to install them in the final text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62735	Thank you. And we still have one reported, and that's on behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62736	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. In view of the fact that the cooperative is a voluntary association of cooperatives in which each member participates directly and which, by mutual assistance principle, promotes and protects his economic and other professional interest, and all in order to achieve his or her own personal and joint gain or other interests of cooperatives in accordance with the law and rules of the cooperative with respect to fundamental cooperative principles which we have already heard, I will only briefly state: this is voluntary and open membership, democratic management of cooperative members, economic cooperation of members, fair distribution of autonomy of independence, education, training, mutual cooperation and mutual care as well as the fact that it is only a matter of organising individuals for the purpose of achieving certain profits. We believe that this should be determined and I think that from the explanation of the opening State Secretary we have actually already received the answer, this opening part did not actually see whether it was a company of persons or a society of capital but we heard that it was a society of persons. We believe in the club HSS that already our inflammatory Croatian cooperative after the adoption of this law will be able to act even better and to function more successfully. Emphasizing the specificity of cooperatives in relation to other legal organisational forms of business and its proper positioning in the business world as it has been elaborated in this bill will certainly contribute to further cooperativeship with us. It should also be reminded that Croatia had a tradition of cooperativeism during history, and its new affirmation is significant... it should certainly give this new Law on Cooperatives. The legislative proposal will contribute to simplifying and dissipating cooperatives in spirit and all of this in the spirit of redundancies of small entrepreneurs and are part of the implementation of one of the measures of economic recovery, a programme of simplifying the business of entities in a small economy. We'll also point out some details of some of the articles. We believe that, until the second reading, it should be clarified and defined when the cooperative is actually established by an act on the formation and registration of the court register. Because we know that enrolment in the court register gets legal personality in fact. Then we think that it might be good to see in Article 22 whether each cooperative should have a supervisory board. You may see in the article 54, although we also heard from the opening explanation and refers to voluntary membership of the Croatian Association of Cooperatives. In particular, it may be possible to see in Article 58 of the revision procedure, in particular those of the extraordinary cooperative audit. So there's still room to review even more specifically certain articles. And we believe that the proposed legal solutions have passed from a careful analysis of the real situation on the ground, and will certainly have a great welcome attitude to say so to all those supporters precisely in the part relating to cooperatives or cooperatives themselves. So here's the HSS club to support this bill in the first reading. And we believe that some of these details that appeared in the discussion in certain articles will be more precise, or precise, as I thought the Committee on Legislatives had asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62737	Thank you. And does he want a representative? Yeah. Dear Tihana Kraljić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62738	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. Here's just one sentence. The Proposer will look very closely at all these comments and suggestions and we believe that with their respect, and here I can now say that a large part of the comments made here will contribute to the fact that this law is ultimately really good and quality. But it's only tied up because it's mentioned on several occasions. It means Article 36 concerning regulation means how and how the profits and cooperative audits are allocated. We've really had a lot of debates in the making of this law. We respected the experience above all of the representatives of the Croatian Alliance of Cooperatives because they are daily in direct contact with our cooperatives. They know their problems. So that distribution also gets those mandatory reserves and those 30% that should necessarily be directed into the development of the cooperative has a role to play, that's the one speciality and that's the one protection of cooperatives. And so is the cooperative audit. And all of this, especially with regard to the Committee on Legislatives, but also all of what we heard today through the debate, we will consider, we will respect. And here I hope the next time we're here on the occasion of a final proposal that this proposal for a new bill will be acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62739	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. That concludes today's session. We'll continue at 9.30 tomorrow with point 13. Final proposal of the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 689/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals, emergency procedure, first and long reading, P.Z.E. Number 635. Thank you, and I wish everyone a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62740	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. The second is reading, P.Z.E. No. 600, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the review of the amendment has been submitted to you on benches. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the proposed amendments. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic, Minister of Justice. Here you go. Representative Zdravko Ronko in Article 2. 7. etc., for a court in Požega, municipal court, municipal court in Slavonski Brod, municipal court in Novi Gradišca.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62741	We do not accept this amendment to Mr. Ronk, we simply believe that by the inflow of the case, the number of judges do not have the conditions for an independent court but for a permanent service outside the court's seat yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62742	Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62743	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I still consider this refusal to be an attack on Požega and the Croatian judiciary. You must know that in the 14th, 15th, 16th century, except for Zagreb, Požega's strong spirit survived the Ottoman Empire, you must know that the Požega judicial spirit and the Požega Court survived and a dozen emperors and kings, survived the Fuhrer and Chiefs and Marshals, survived Tudjman, survived the Pater Family, Father Sanader, and I don't think you should bow down now and that neither should Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here, from that angle, I ask you to vote because there is no excessive reason, no organisational, no functional, no geographical, and least economically, in order for this Court to be abolished, it is by abolishing this Court and by establishing a new one, we need to spend at least 100 million to get there. Here, I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62744	Thank you. Who is for this amendment, please raise your hands, which the government does not accept. Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of Agent Arsen Bauk to Article 2(9) County court in Split, then in Makarska, then in Dubrovnik, then in Metkovic, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62745	It's unacceptable. We are already at the Municipality Court in Vrgorec. 1. In 2009, they joined the Municipal Court in Metkovic and the court has been functioning for two years. In the context of such a merger, I will say that we have solved a lot of the backlogs that the court in Vrgorec had. The conditions on the inflow of cases and the number of judges we do not have that would be an independent court, but we will certainly respect it for the days of the trial to go hand in hand to the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62746	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62747	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, this requires neither the merger of courts nor the establishment of a new court but simply that the Split-Dalmatia County and its county court be within the borders of the Split-Dalmatia County, and the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and its county court within the borders of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Therefore, a competent county court in Split and a municipal court in Makarska are required to declare the area of Vrgorca, the will of the citizens and the will of local authorities. Mayor Vrgorca member of HDZ Mr. Matkovic when he was a representative and he submitted the same amendment you did not accept at the time, he withdrew it because of party discipline. My amendment you refused, the citizens of Vrgorca simply want to make it right, even though their stone fell on the road towards Makarska, when the authorities change, they will fall from their hearts and we will make this right. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62748	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. Third amendment of the representative of Danica Hurs and Mr Ivan Hanžek to the proposals concerning the County Court in Zlatar, Krapina, Zabok, Zapresic, Zlatar, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62749	Mr. President, the Government does not accept this amendment because we simply do not have a number of judges, an inflow of conditions for the existence of the County Court in Zlatar, but by accepting the next amendments we will connect with the court in Zagreb and in some ways we will get another more respectable county court with a permanent service outside the seat. And since Zlatar has good conditions, these resources will be very useful both as far as the judges are concerned and as far as the premises are concerned in Zlatar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62750	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62751	They'd say for history and record, let it be heard. The fact is that the County Court in Zlatar is an object that has invested 70 million kunas of 90 and what year to date. The fact is, unfortunately, this thing with the number of judges is pretty relative because the Ministry was in charge of agreeing with the number of judges. So you've already been sentenced to disability in advance so the Ministry doesn't approve of you the number of judges that are a condition for survival. Secondly, we think that this proposal that we made by colleague Hursa and I is actually going towards a better way of rationalising the judicial network, in a way that part of Zagreb County, this western part of Sava northwest, the uniting area that today covers the Municipal Court in Zapresic. I'm asking you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62752	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of Representative Ana Lovrin to the Trade Court in Bjelovar, Varazdin and Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62753	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62754	This amendment has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the bill. 5. Amendment to Mršić, referred to in Article 4(1), Bjelovar-Bilogorska, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62755	He was consummated and accepted on this Fourth Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62756	He was consummated through this acceptance of this amendment and therefore should not be voted on. 6th Amendment of Representatives Tanja Vrbat and Dina Kozlevec, to Article 4. A trade court in Rijeka and Pazin.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62757	We don't accept it, we don't have the conditions for the independence of a self-judgment in Pazin. But in any case, given the number of cases he has there, there will be conditions for permanent service outside the court's seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62758	Thank you. Mr. Dino Kozlevac, do you want it or Mrs. Tanya Wrbatt? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62759	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad you're admitting that the number of cases at the trade court in Pazin is really high and I believe in the existence of an independent court. The number of commercial entities in Istria County is one of the higher ones in the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry that no sufficient number of judges have been granted by the ministry to make it even better in that court. I am asking for a vote on this amendment and I call on representatives from Istria to also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62760	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7th Amendment of Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić, Commercial Court in Split, Commercial Court in Dubrovnik?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62761	We also have no conditions for the survival of a special court in Dubrovnik, but given the distance from Dubrovnik and Split, it certainly has conditions for permanent service and outside the seat. So whether there will be a permanent service in Dubrovnik and also that all needs related to the commercial court will be met in Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62762	Mrs. Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62763	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's your excuse for saying that the availability of a commercial court is one of the key factors of the economy as a driver of society. And that is why I believe that this is the kind of solution that you have proposed, in fact, that the commercial court joins Dubrovnik in bringing Split together that it is actually a harmful decision. The reasons for the survival I was looking for, the reasons for the survival of a company I've talked about before, now I'm just going to list the historical, geographical, economic, economic and economic quality of work. But I have to say that the increasing inflow of cases at the Dubrovnik Commercial Court was so much that during 2009, it was 5.09 judges, and you know how many judges worked at the Dubrovnik Commercial Court. In addition, it is the second of 13 commercial courts to resolve litigation proceedings. Therefore, I am asking nicely for the vote of my colleagues, and especially my colleague from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and here there are 6 of them, therefore, I am asking nicely for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62764	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8th Amendment of the Representatives of Danica Hursa and Ivan Hanzek to Article 4. A trade court in Varazdin and Zagreb?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62765	It has already been consummated by the adoption of Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62766	You're withdrawing the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62767	I withdraw, but I suggest that the possible permanent service be taken into account or as it is called in terms of the number of cases which are in court and processing at the Commercial Court in Zagreb in order to relieve the very central court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62768	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. Mr. Representative Goran Beus 9th Amendment to Article 4 of the Trade Court in Zadar and Sibenik?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62769	We also do not accept for the same reasons as here, do we not have the conditions to remain an independent trade court in Sibenik. By joining Sibenik and Zadar, we will have just enough cases and judges for a good court, but in Sibenik we will have a permanent service outside the seat, so that economic operators and all others will also be able to meet all of their needs in the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62770	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62771	Mr. Minister, I am sorry that the criterion of 5 judges as a minimum is the only possible because he is definitely not going to have a crucial impact on judicial reform. Namely, the Sibenik Court is not the only one without five judges to be abolished, as there are some who do not have five judges but remain as Varazdinski and Zadarski. I'm sorry if we're unable to think about what Dalmatia will look like tomorrow in terms of regional organisation and the dissemination of key institutions. They include a whole series of institutions and also a trade court. If Sibenik is left without a commercial court, it will be just another one in a series of events that will significantly weaken the position of Sibenik, and the Sibenik Commercial Court is one of the most successful, or above average by the number of resolved cases, by a small number of those cases which return to it from a higher commercial court and in fact in the long term I think it will be a very bad decision. We regret that they will actually profit from another court which also conditions formally for us, and Sibenik will lose. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62772	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ten. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the European Parliament and of the Council in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62773	The Government does not accept this amendment, and the argument is the same as in Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62774	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment since he doesn't have a colleague from the IDS? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. Also the same club on Article 5 relating to the Commercial Court in Osijek, Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Pazin, Zagreb?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62775	We also don't accept the reasons they've already been told.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62776	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment that the government doesn't accept because there's no IDS representative here? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. In Article 8(4) of the word ‘Article 8’ is also deleted?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62777	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62778	This amendment has been accepted. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts was adopted by a majority of 76 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 37 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62779	Now we're going to move to point 12, we're going to do more of it, that's - - - The proposal of the Cooperative Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 634 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to the first reading of Articles 144 to 150, shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tihana Kraljić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-11-11-0.u62780	20. Proposal for the Cooperatives Act, first reading, P.Z. Number 634. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law on Cooperatives is hereby adopted. 2. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law." Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you. The proposed proposal for a conclusion was accepted by most votes, 102 votes for, 2 abstentions and 2 against.
