ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65705	Honored ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs. I am opening the 21st extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all, and I hope you do not interrupt your holiday mood today for the continuity of not continuing. I welcome you all together, especially I welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, and all present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I called for the 21st extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament at the request of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 197(2) and (5) and Article 200. I would like to ask you to join us in order to determine the quorum for today's session. Please, let's get on with it. 105 registered deputies and representatives are present. So we have a quorum and we can decide. The draft agenda is divided into boxes. The proposed agenda has one point and reads: 1. PROPOSING TO REFERENCE OF CONSERVATION TO THE PROPOSED MEMBER STATES OF THE CROSS OF CROATIA - PETRO CObanković, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, and for the behaviour of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia; - Gordan Jandroković, Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, and for the behaviour of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia; - Domagoj Milosevic, for the behaviour of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia; - mr.sc. Martini Dalic, for acting as Minister of Finance; - dr.sc. Davor Bozinovic, for acting as defence minister; - Branko Bačić, for acting as Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction; - Jasen Mesic, for acting as Culture Minister. Do any of the MPs and MPs have objections to the proposed agenda? If there is no objection from the lady and gentlemen, the representatives of the agenda are set. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament should now publish the established agenda from one point. Let me not do this in accordance with my current tradition, so the agenda is set as I suggested in the invitation. Dear MPs and MPs, we now have the request of four representatives to activate the term of office in the Croatian Parliament, so I ask you to stay here for a few minutes so that we and the committee can do their job, and we... /Buka in the hall. [[The commission, the five-minute break, everything's ready. .../]] I think that this way we will correctly accept our colleagues here today and that we can call the next week of Parliament normal. So I ask a little patience, in a few minutes, the Mandate-Immunity Commission will bring its proposal to the Chamber of Stjepan Radic. ... /The noise in the hall./... Here you go, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65707	Mr. President, Article 204(2) has been injured. Rules of Procedure: if a session of the Parliament lasts longer than one day, the President of the Parliament may subsequently propose that the agenda be complemented by a new point. We don't sit for more than one day, this wasn't on the agenda and you can't complete the agenda, that's first. Secondly, we already had one case at an extraordinary session when the HDSSB club asked that the mandate of Deputy Mr. Buric, who replaced Branimir Glavas, be activated, we did not do so because it was an explanation that it could not be done at an extraordinary session and they could not speak on behalf of the club. Therefore, at the regular session of our four and five Deputy Mr. Bačić, we can set the mandate to activate, there is no reason not to do so then and to tear down the practice so far and the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65708	We can do it at an extraordinary session if we put the item on the agenda why we can't. ... /The noise in the hall./... But we can propose it now. ... All right, all right, all right. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that the agenda of this extraordinary session be complemented so that the Mandate-Immunity Commission can discuss and propose for four MPs what they are asking to activate that mandate. Who's up for this proposal? ... /The noise in the hall./... Please count that down and then we'll do it. ... /The noise in the hall./... Against? Restraint? Score. 82 for it. I ask the Mandate-Immunity Commission to withdraw to Stjepan Radic's room, we will wait and then let him... Here at 13.55 is the continuation of the session, please. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, so that the President of the Committee doesn't suffer unless there's a quorum. Let's check the quorum. What? Oh, come on, let's get them involved here so no one can complain to us about anything, let's turn it on and get it over with. I may have to explain why we couldn't get into the agenda. Because their colleagues were able to apply when their minister's duties ceased, and the minister's duty ended the moment these new ones were trusted. So it was only then that they were formally able to say that they were in conflict of interest. It also means a request to make. And that's why this turned out a little awkward though this wasn't even important too much, because the MP shows up after eight days as he filed, he actually starts to run. We haven't lost anything, but we better figure it out today. Here. Do we have a quorum? 76. 78. But is there anyone who didn't get involved, so? Come on, Ratko, you're a little older, but hurry up. Okay. We've completed the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65711	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam MPs and the Honorable Gentlemen Representatives. Here I am standing before you to propose changes in the Government of the Republic of Croatia so as to propose that the Government of the Republic of Croatia be appointed or to choose them to confirm them, to give them the trust of people who, according to their beliefs and mine, but what is equally wet, the ruling coalition will give one additional power in this year which is ahead of us to successfully carry out all the tasks which are the pillars of the work of this Government and I believe that these pillars, regardless of our political differences, are actually publicly or secretly supported by all of us. simply because of this, I am sure that the conclusion of the negotiations next year, the conquest of one strategic goal but certainly also the historic goal for the Republic of Croatia for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is to become the 28th member of the EU, we all support when I talk about parliamentary parties. But I am also sure that you all support the consistent implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme, regardless of how anyone at what point was declared about this programme, because this means Croatia's exit from the crisis, the recovery of the Croatian economy. Certainly, in the context of these proposals, I am looking above all at the implementation in 2011 and the major investment projects recently presented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It's about 30 major projects, heavy about 14 billion euros. And we are in the ruling coalition convinced that if one part of these projects were to be brought to life, and I am sure they will, that in 2011, we can record a significantly higher growth than the one the government has proposed, i.e. the government predicted of 1.5%, but I am also sure that we can expect and win an extremely important goal, which is to reduce the number of unemployed in the Republic, because that number certainly concerns us all. One of the objectives for which I propose this reconstruction is certainly the introduction of both new energy and new power and new flight. And the fact that people whose whole life is marked and dedicated, I must say, and the successes guarantee that we will actually win all these goals. I therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament accept the proposal that the current Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr Petar Cobankovic, also be vice president. Of course he'll be in charge of the economy. I believe that this is important because of his previous success in the work of the government, above all because of the success in solving several extremely difficult problems related to the economy where he has shown by his but certainly knowledge that he can solve the most complex problems. I would also suggest that Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic, Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, be also vice-president of the government certainly for the area that is said to be covered today. I don't think there should be any particular explanation for why this is so, because one of Croatia's truly strategic and historical goals is the conclusion of the negotiations, but also the fact that the negotiations are concluded, this big business where we end up, I look at the context of the strength of the Croatian economy. Because it is certainly extremely important that at this point we have in mind and the fact that Croatia wants to become an additional economic strength 28th member of the European Union, and all of our successes in this area will certainly make it easier for us, the way in the end and the decisions for all the Member States of the European Union when they decide on us as a 28th member, but also for our citizens and citizens when they come to the referendum and ultimately decide whether they are for Croatia's entry into the European Union. I also suggest that the Deputy Prime Minister become Mr. Domagoj Milosevic. So he will be in charge exclusively of investment, he will be part of the team and on the basis of investments set up by the economy minister with his team. It will certainly continue to resuscitate all these major investment projects. It's a difficult and complex task, but I'm sure because of the success he's had so far in his work, because of the fact that he's successfully overcome many obstacles, that he'll be successful in this business. But I repeat, he's gonna be part of a team where everyone's gonna have to make the most of it. I also suggest that Mrs. Martina Dalic be appointed or that you give her confidence that she would become a finance minister with a very rich experience, but above all with the results and with one power of gathering around the projects I think she will really be a successful finance minister. But I am certainly looking at Mrs. Dalic's role in this economic team that needs to be realized, to realize these big projects. I also suggest that Mr Davor Bozinovic be given confidence to act as defence minister. One of the reasons I do this is the fact that we are today a proud NATO member and that we have repeatedly pointed out that NATO is not, or NATO membership is not only a member of a military association, but it is certainly a possibility for further economic strengthening of Croatia. There is still a lot of potential, and I believe that Mr Bozinovic, with his experience in the work so far and with NATO, will certainly contribute significantly to the work done at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. I also suggest that Mr. Branko Bačić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, be trusted to head the Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. He is really professional in this job, but he also knows very well what seems particularly important to me, well knows the functioning of local administrations and self-government, means he well knows the work on the ground, well knows the problems and well knows many obstacles unfortunately to which businesses, potential investors often encounter at local level. So we want to tie it all up to one whole, and we want to achieve success in that sense. And finally, I propose Mr. Jasen Mesic to whom if you accept my proposal you would give confidence in the function or the work of the Minister of Culture. Mr Mesic also comes from the ministry itself, knows well how the ministry only works, but I think as an expert, as a young person, he will become the youngest member of the government if you give him your confidence that he can contribute further to the achievement of all these goals that the government has set before him in the coming year. Ladies and gentlemen, on today's day if you accept a proposal that doesn't start and end anything. So we have worked extremely hard on implementing the Programme of Economic Recovery, this programme is being implemented, this programme is being implemented in its fullness and this programme certainly gives results. What I might be able to do, and there may be opportunities in further discussion, highlighted and some of the projects that we have implemented, I believe that you will be interested in this, but it is particularly important to me and especially important to all of us in the ruling coalition that these big investment projects be realized, to stand on their feet, and some of them we have already started. I remind you that recently I was in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where we started, i.e. HEP started working on the construction of the Plat station, and this is one of these infrastructure projects that the government presented and certainly involved in public enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, I said this doesn't end or anything starts in a special way, these people enter the team, give him new power and a new flight, a new takeoff quite certainly. It's a refreshment that is very often needed by every government. I especially point out that this is an election year ahead of us, and I absolutely don't accept the thesis that goes on in the election year, that nothing should be started, that election year is not the year in which some results are expected from the government, and there is such a thesis. The election year is just like any other year. According to these thesis, in fact, every government would actually work for two years because the first year after the election is the year in which the government is stalking itself, the last year in which I guess nothing should be done because everyone is preparing for the elections, and then they stay two years in which it really works. I don't take it that way. The election year, as I said the other day, must not be lost for one second, not a minute. The election year must be the year in which the government will work 24 hours a day, in which the government will achieve results and which government will succeed. One of the successes will certainly be the end of the negotiations next year and the signing of the accession treaty. Another success will be the realization of some of these investment projects, reducing unemployment and growth in the economy. So I suggest we stop calculating that we should actually go to elections now, rather than get to work. This government has a stable majority in the Croatian Parliament, this government has the support of MPs and MPs and is ready to do all the tasks we have installed in the programme and that I presented to you in July last year. The election year, ladies and gentlemen, must not be a year of unhappiness, there must be no years of political bickering and there must be no years in which we will lose our strength but, in fact, the election years as we in the Government and the ruling coalition see it should be a year in which we will show unity and show strength on strategic issues. At this very moment, I also call on the opposition parties to join us in implementing the three most important projects, the three pillars the government is working on. Therefore, support for the economic recovery programme, support for a programme that will end negotiations and become 28 members and support, strong support for the fight against corruption. And I invite you to join us in this strongly no matter what the election year is ahead of us. The elections will be when they are, when we decide but certainly within the deadline, and until then, ladies and gentlemen should be stuck and working for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In the end, I want to inform you because there was also a calculation in the public because this session was called as extraordinary, we couldn't wait until the constitutional deadline when the Parliament was sitting, so after January 15th and there's a calculation of how much this session costs. So I want to inform you that today we are at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community agreed that HDZ representatives will not use travel costs for this session. I can see you don't like it, but that's your problem. So, at the HDZ Representatives' Club, they decided not to charge travel expenses for this session. Ladies and gentlemen, I call upon you to give confidence to the people I have proposed, to give confidence to the people who have the strength, the opportunities and the knowledge to carry out the projects ahead of us in 2011. And I'm glad my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP were able to cheer you up. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65712	I thank the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor, and I open the debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65713	Dear President, honourable MPs and MPs, colleagues and colleagues. The Prime Minister managed to make us laugh. I ask you to take travel expenses because you deserve them and they belong to you under the law. But if you think it's wrong to take travel expenses for nothing, then this is nothing happening today, then don't take travel expenses. This should be something, so this is your job. But if you think this is nothing then don't take travel expenses but as long as it's done by law and as long as the rules are respected and that's the main problem of our country things are fine. So this is for us a process that began more than three months ago with the announcement by the President of the Croatian Government in New York that there will be a change in government. Since then, Croatia, the HDZ party of the government, Croatia has been looking for changes for three months. And this is the state of the country that performs and moves from the normal colossal state and leads to a state of uncertainty, political calculations. So it's not good when it happens this way. Each party has its own problems, each party has problems in its parts, in general, at a certain time. But when these problems become general problems, it's not good, and we've been looking at it for the last three months for sure, but also for the last year and a half days. So for us, this is a partial reconstruction of HDZ, or attempt to partially reconstruct HDZ, and that is why we will not talk about individuals that I do not want to hurt here. There are mostly people who are famous in public. One's a new face, one's a new person. Not the face, the person, the man, the entrepreneur. I'm not talking about faces. I'm talking about people who will be taking on serious duty for a short time. The prime minister says fresh blood. Let's see. That's what you said yesterday, fresh blood. All right, maybe some of these people are fresh blood, but for fresh blood, it takes a heart to pump that blood and it needs a brain. We'll see if it exists. These are the basics of anatomy, i.e. the introduction to anatomy. Listen, I didn't say it was fresh blood. That's what you said. I'm saying maybe it is, maybe some of these people are fresh blood. They're certainly not new people. Their motives to assume these duties at the moment I will not speculate here everyone has their motives. Why do we now have a vice-president in charge of investment but without any portfolio, without a ministry? And we can ask ourselves that question. What is the point of changing the Minister of Finance's shift in the year in which he proposed the last budget when nothing else can change, except maybe rebalancing. Politically, even professionally speaking, it doesn't make sense. But I'm stressing again. It's your right. You can do it a week before the election. The second thing that will make that impression and how real the achievements of such a policy and such a relationship are. You also said yesterday, I don't look back here on any speculation in the media that they're new ministers before they're appointed shared tasks, that you've given them assignments. I don't see a problem in having them gathered before they were appointed. You've probably talked before. It is normal for you to talk to people, but I would expect them to have presented their ideas, plans, and visions to you, not to share your assignments with them as a pioneer camp. That's exactly what I'm saying. That's what he's saying on the subconscious level. So these people, with less than a year, judging by this story, will continue for so long, still have great responsibility, no matter what God knows or doesn't change. They are Croatian ministers, we will view them as such, as such, and as such judge and criticise them according to need. I'm stressing in some of these reactors that nothing actually changes anymore. First of all, in the finance portfolio. In the investment vault, but alive they've seen it. I also warn of the need to propose a vice president for investment, and I don't even say it with irony, I say the most seriously, which is the prominent entrepreneur, or president of a corporation, in doing his job must primarily keep the public interest, and that in these things and such situations is not the easiest thing, I believe that he has no bad intentions, so we will see, because we have all kinds of experiences. So the attempt to reconstruct, partially reconstruct HDZ, not the Croatian government, but the legitimate right we have been looking at for a year and a half of conflicts in HDZ, and this has long not only been a problem for HDZ, this is Croatia's problem. For the end before I wish you a happy New Year and a lot of health in that new year, and a lot of discretion to all of us, in the year in which we enter the European Union, in the year in which we finally have to determine for the day after tomorrow, and not tomorrow what our real goals and what kind of state we want, what we want with the shipyards, what we want with the environment, what we really want with the Croatian economy, what we want with our strategic corporations, because we see that the last weeks and months do not know exactly what they want, who our partners are, and how Croatian partners, say in the energy sector, have to behave and what Croatia has the right to say to them, and Croatia is the government, if they behave incorrectly, these are terribly important questions that I do not see answers at this moment. So a lot of health, and again health and health, that's what I want from your heart, to everyone in this House. And to be aware of the responsibility that stands before all of us, as politicians, as members of the parties, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as party presidents, all what the public expects of us, Croatia first of all, then Croatia, then internationally, I will quote here a law, or just a few articles of a law, because I think it is appropriate, sad but appropriate at the end of this sad year. The law was passed in September 2003, one of the last laws that led to the parliamentary procedure by the then coalition government, and which was adopted here, as well as the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and the Law on the right to access information. And it's about the Law of Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. We are all legal persons, and SDP, and HDZ, we all have responsible persons, and each of us may be more, or much more than an average legal person carries a huge burden of responsibility and morals primarily political but also criminal. So I want everyone to listen well to the provisions of this law, because they apply to each of us, to a lesser or greater extent, and to the presidents of the parties and responsible persons most. That is, the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. The legal person will be punished for the criminal offence of the responsible person if he is injured by a legal person or by a legal person or by him or by a legal person who has obtained or should have obtained an unlawful property benefit for himself or another. The person responsible within the meaning of this Act shall be a natural person who manages the affairs of a legal person or is entrusted to him in the field of activity of a legal person. This, of course, also applies to political parties, because it clearly stands in this law. So a reminder to all, especially colleagues from HDZ, that this law obliges us, and that this is one of the bounds of our work of dealing with public responsibility, and something that can eventually come to each of us for collection. But let us not allow it, and those whose job it is to enforce this law, may conduct it or do nothing. Happy New Year.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65714	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65715	Of course, Merry Christmas, I especially love it when you remind me of it. I'm so sorry, why I came back, thank you. This isn't procedure. I like to be reminded of that by those who started celebrating it in 1990, it's very... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65716	Thank you. As Mr. Representative wished all the best and good health to all MPs, as they were unable to thank each individual, on behalf of everyone I thank for such wishes. And we have corrections to incorrect allegations and that 7th. First Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65717	Mr. President, Madam President of the Croatian Government. Representative Milanovic says this is an attempt to reconstruct HDZ, which is not true, this is a reconstruction of the Croatian government, but I am sorry that Mr Milanovic left because these days he was full of mouths that these are Sanader's people, but it could first be said to him that he is Sanader's man, because he gave him the first job, but he should let a man do his job Christmasly at this time to the institutions of the rule of law and leave the man alone. This Kukurik coalition, unfortunately, looks more like a circus coalition than a Kukurik coalition. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65718	Correction, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65719	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister. So it is incorrect to quote counterpart Milanovic where he claimed that this government reconstruction could not do anything in this coming year, since it is necessary, with fresh blood that both the brain and the knowledge are needed. These people's résumés clearly show that they are professional and competent, that through their lifetime they have made significant steps in their personal improvement, in their business plans and businesses, and that they are certainly the ones who will take the necessary steps in the stabilisation and economic process in the coming year. It is certainly not you, because as we hear from your leader and colleagues, he has no slight connection to what Croatia needs today.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65720	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65721	Thank you very much, Mr. President, here's when I get up then this left always builds up, but here's what I'm going to tell the truth now that the Croatian people hears, especially the citizens of the city of Zagreb. Your president, Mr Milanovic, said on behalf of your Club, the SDP Club that there are conflicts in HDZ and that these conflicts last a year and that this is only a reconstruction of the Croatian Democratic Community. That's not true, your representative, your boss should first clear his yard because conflicts in the SDP have much to do with it. I will give you the latest example of what happened in the Zagreb City Assembly, when the first city SDP man voted against his party's orders, so now you explain it to me and let Mr Milanovic explain to me what it is. Is that love maybe? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65722	Thank you. Madam representative of the Sun's Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65723	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam President. Well, I'm going to correct my colleague Milanovic's incorrect quote, as if he wasn't exactly on the subject we're discussing today, and I'm going to correct two incorrect allegations. First, it is not about the reconstruction of the Croatian Democratic Community of counterpart Milanovic, and the second, there are no conflicts within the Croatian Democratic Community. If you had followed closely what is happening in the Croatian Democratic Community, you would obviously be interested, you would know that the party is stable, that all members of the Presidency are still members of the Presidency and that the more it is done. And what I have to tell you is that every day the party has more and more members, new accessions, and while you're doing the bio-painting work and you promise to paint Croatia red, this government is doing refreshments, it's doing what will strengthen the government, and it's not choosing colors for Croatia, it's choosing the future, so I'm asking you without laughing when we talk about serious things and I'm asking you to return the dignity to this House and not to make a circus out of it yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65724	Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65725	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Merry and blessed Christmas to all, including those who are watching us now. Mr. Milanovic talked about problems in all parties, it is incorrect to talk about problems in the Social Democratic Party. The truth is, the Social Democratic Party only has one problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65726	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65727	Representative Milanovic incorrectly said this failed to try to reconstruct HDZ. I think Mr. Milanovic is still politically inexperienced because he repeats always a mistake and does not learn from his mistakes and needs to know that the prime minister and every prime minister have the right to choose their associates because they expect Croatian citizens to do so. But you know, colleague Milanovic, you often express yourself vividly. Do you know why a hunting dog has its ears down? Because he got tired of hunting stories. And we unfortunately have to listen here to Milanovic's stories that you always repeat the same and unfortunately we can't protect ourselves from.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65728	And finally correction Mr. Agent Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65729	Thank you. I am correcting Mr Milanovic's incorrect quote, Mr Milanovic, when he said the prime minister gave the directive and did not listen to her new ministers. That's not true. The prime minister said they had made a plan, heard each other and will act accordingly. Therefore, it was a public and official statement from the government. On the other hand, you were a colleague of Milanovic's, you were really contradictory, you said and you kept saying that the government didn't suit you, but you're terrified of change, so you said. On the other hand, you're saying that we're making unnecessary expenses and you're saying that all the time, now you're calling to take those expenses, so you should lean on us and not take those costs. And finally, I will remember this statement from your second attempt to congratulate Christmas, thank you very much, and that is nice, and to you Merry Christmas and every good, however, from the head of the opposition party I expected much more from Christmas cards, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65730	On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65731	Before I congratulate you gentlemen Christmas, happy and blessed Christmas and those to say Milanović, who celebrated it until 90th and after 90th and those who began celebrating it after 90th, first to paraphrasise Mr. Kunst and say raise your ears, up the ears of the gentlemen of HDZ. Exactly, as the Prime Minister says today nothing begins, nothing ends, just the fact that we are sinking from day to day. It's true, what this is, this is one torture, this is agony, this is extorted, etc. To be clear, I have nothing against anyone sitting on my right, neither against Mrs Kosor, nor against Mr. Cobankovic, Jandrokovic, Milosevic, Davor, Mrs. Dalic, Bozinovica pardon, Mr. Mesic, etc., but I repeat this reconstruction we call refreshment is throwing dust into the eyes. After HDZ has frozen us this country in the last seven years, even today at -7 as much as it was when I came up here to the Parliament, and refreshed us. If you tried to refresh us out there in the 7th month of 2007, it would make sense, like this doesn't make any sense, and so much the first move would be if Mrs. Kosor said here I'm resigning we're going to the elections, just the government didn't make it. I'd be luckiest if she just didn't make it. The responsible prime minister, who sees the sequence of events for the next year, I think she would have done so, would have called a simple election, and I agree here with Milanovic that this reconstruction is actually a rescue of HDZ. Perhaps by policy Good Night, after the Flood, Good Night Croatia, and the damage you gentlemen have done to this country and to pride, and to theft and waste, I do not think it will be possible to correct itself for seven years. I watched it this morning in 2007 for this pay phone, and I said that if the government of Eve Sanader failed, then the rest of the government wouldn't make it. When I read that speech this morning, I saw another sentence that I said back then, let's call the IMF right away because it's coming anyway. Mr. IMF didn't show up in 2010, but it's around here somewhere. I've already told you here once about a speech by gentlemen from HDZ you may have created a state, clearly that claim does not correspond to the truth and that it is tense, but it is simply a ruined nation. In a year and a half of this last government run by Mrs. Kosor in this country, 130,000 jobs have been lost. The credit rating of the state we've been reading for the last few days is reduced to that BBB mark minus right next to mark C and mark C is bankrupt. This means that the state, that the citizens of the 2011 economy will collect loans to everyone, will grow inflation and now quote Governor Rohatinski who says "The government has a choice of more expensive foreign loans or cheaper with the IMF". There may be two other choices, to nationalize or rip off that other retirement rally or to sell out what I know of HEP. There's no way that the 2011 gross social product if we lost 130 thousand jobs is growing. Construction is in a major downturn, there is a constant budget deficit, there will be more inflation, there will be an increase in the current account, the state will have to be further in debt, and that is all everyone in this assembly knows for sure. And now the election, now it doesn't matter who wins. Of course, I don't believe HDZ could win the election, neither will IDS, but along with someone else he could participate in the election victory. But the election would lead gentlemen to the fact that Croatia will once again be trusted with that new government, that it will be easier to access credit, capital will enter if we do not clearly benefit from Croatian tycoons that are always few and citizens will probably have an understanding for some time and for painful moves that will surely follow. That's why I think it would be good if the election had been called, because of the hope that this Christmas, New Year's Eve could offer to our citizens. But don't get it all the time. But apparently HDZ chose politics, after the flood. Good night, Croatia. And that's why I'm saying that this reconstruction is literally cosmetics. Throwing like I said dust in your eyes. Let's let whoever's coming in, people are coming in from the HDZ nomenclature. It's a party government, okay. There is Mr. Milosevic at the head of a privatized company, so much about the revision. What's he saying? Yes, gentlemen, no one will come with you. That's it, no one's going with you. That's right. And this is more construction I would say Mladen Bajic than the prime minister. I don't know if it's true that the claim that 200 HDZ officials will spend more time in the USKOK than in their benches in the Assembly or I don't know where. Okay, it's no big deal. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65732	Please, don't pretend to be a U.S. Attorney's office or a court of law. Don't interfere with other people's jurisdiction, you're talking about the government and the proposed ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65733	... the budget of the '90s. A year. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] What does that mean? Is there a new rebalancing going on? I am sure this will happen 4 months ago because 750m euros in loans should be refinanced. What's the criterion of leaving? And that's what I'm gonna say. That minister who managed to fill the hall with 5,000 people remains, Shuker unfortunately not, leaving. But, well, now it doesn't matter. Clearly, even part of the media is responsible for this situation that we have in the country today. They play untouchable, and in fact, part of the media also brought the former prime minister to the head of this country in 2003 and 2007. Today they say, we chose him because he was for Europe, he gave up Tudjman for being clearly stupid. And he wrote to Klauski that today part of the media bows down to the State's Attorney's office and to the police because they too are being held in their hands. And that's Croatian for real. I agree our problem is both the government and the decentness of the opposition, because if someone else were in power, if you HDZ gentlemen were in power, the government would be rolling in these circumstances on the streets. The media and the insatiability of capital and the fear of MPs are also responsible, yes. Let me explain. Would any government in Europe survive Mr. Matusic to arrest her prime minister, I don't know Mr. Hebrang says he was a kleptomaniac, 300 pictures have been taken at home, if it were put in a gallery there, it would be the most visited exhibition I suppose in the Republic of Mimara on here. You and the vice president of the government, two former police chiefs, are arrested by the entire public sector, so to speak on the defendant's bench. Would a single set on the globe survive that? No, you wouldn't. No government would survive that. No, you wouldn't. You're so strong. That's right. She wouldn't survive. Anyone Mr. Hebrang can make mistakes, mistakes, judges and state lawyers, and you and you MPs about executive power not to talk, misdemeanors, wrong journalists, a man can make a mistake but can't steal or take. That's it. And some people need to know. And now if the state budget with the extra budget funds of gentlemen is 140 billion kuna. If the public companies were the 66 that we talked about 7 days ago, heavy or had 77 billion kuna, HDZ had no local self-government in the last 7 years with a thousand 400 to a thousand 500 billion kuna. A thousand billion to a thousand hundred billion kunas could not be affected. These were salaries, pensions, loans, but with 400 billion kuna for capital investments and public procurement, it could have been a miracle. And now you're just a man asking yourself if the 5% that would be 20 billion or 2.5 billion would be stolen here would be 10 billion. But it doesn't matter, the money needs to be found and returned to this people. If our police found two accounts and provided those data to Sanader for as long as possible in Austria, the state's attorney's office in Vienna, then one Austria, one Liechtenstein, one Luxembourg, I don't know who, Switzerland, can deliver all the information where the '90s money is. this way to the Republic of Croatia. So what do you say to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Next year the gross product will continue to fall, foreign debt will reach 100% of GDP, work will be a lottery, unemployment will be 18%, in Istria 9, maybe 9.5%, prices will rise, fiscal deficit I read 21.2 billion kuna, not 15 billion kuna, etc. There are those who are looking for the government of national unity today. It's nonsense, with those who led to this, there can't be a common government. And it would be a citizen scam, and it would be an amnesty simply for some. But there is one thing I also support, which is this minister future for investment or vice president, anyway. In this year I know they'll be minimal, almost nothing, but when everyone's scared, even though it's good that some in this country are scared, it's very good, it's not bad, it's not bad. But when everyone's scared, when no one dares to sign any act and even under that syntagma that you can't steal, you can make a mistake, you can do well to have a minister who will somehow take on that responsibility. Is it a Vladic, for example? For 10 years in Istria, it must not begin to build these facilities for the Israelites, etc. And one more thing, don't please the tycoons, the monopolies, everyone in this country should have an equal chance. But we're talking about something that may not be life-saving, today I'm reading "Free Dalmatia" or yesterday somewhere on a portal, 2,000 people going home, on a collective vacation, and Kerum is sending them to go today when they don't have a goat or sheep in the country where they came from. On the other hand, I watch every day in Slavonia this poor thing sells a kilo of blankets or pigs would tell me Istrians, for 10 kuna. In Istria you can't go to farmers, the farmer is a big deal for us, it's not a relationship like anywhere else, you can't get under 20, 21, 22 kuna. I will normally always defend that which is ours for 20 kunas is better, okay, but for 10 kuna, the whole Slavonia has 6.7 ministers, everything is on its knees. One Dalmatia also etc., etc. I'd like to make a mistake, I'd like this country to be remembered for all the best, unfortunately I don't think that's going to happen in the year ahead, it's not time yet. The day after tomorrow is gentlemen New Year's Eve, I congratulated you on Christmas, so the Three Kings, let the ministers start working as soon as possible, 1.7 again some fairies, in the 9th month God will probably call the election in the 10th, 11th month. So this reconstruction is a reconstruction in nine months just how long it's gonna take to clean up the case. But no matter what, I want both the Government and the Prime Ministers and the Vice-Presidents and the Ministers and the State Secretarys, clear MPs, I want the MPs to be happy in 2011 and we want the government to be successful. There's only so much, I think that's fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65734	We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. I would just point out that from time to time we remember that we have brought constitutional changes that do not obsess over turned crime. First Ivan Bagarić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65735	Comrade Cain, allow me to correct your key misquote, which is that HDZ leads politics after we sink. Thank God and you know it's not like that, and thank God it's not like that. You also told us at HDZ that we might have created a state. Yes, thank God and you contributed to this by fellow Milanovic and everyone who did not carry a rifle against Croatia contributed to Croatia and did well, either to lunch or to water. Normally HDZ was headed by President Tudjman's leader. But to preserve the state, to make it happy we need more hope, we need much more hope and faith in each other. I'm afraid this is what you're showing her. You said that something good was foretold, correctly foretold, and what had happened, and it is impossible in Croatia for something bad to happen that you didn't prophesy because every time you came out here you only said bad and it's not good. Let's get more power, more hope and more good in both families and in the state and in this House and everyone will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65736	Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65737	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I have to call my colleague Caine first of all to thank him for his congratulations, of course, but I also want to remind him when this kind of a climate of peace brings peace to the public, that it's not right because it says the country is ruined. The second says HDZ has frozen Croatia, not exactly a dear colleague. We remember very well some time, sometimes there were frozen salaries, pensions than when they were reduced to both nurses and teachers and doctors and everyone. Today in our country there are both salaries and pensions on time, all social rights and maternity benefits. In this illustrative approach of yours, you are also associated with the cartoon "Good Night, Croatia", and I am also joined by your debate on one cartoon in the belows where you would be the scary cat, and we would have to run into the mouse holes, and that didn't work because in our village they say they're terrified, in the other they're not afraid. Thank you very much. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65738	Correction, Mrs. Susana Bilic Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65739	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that this government reconstruction is a rescue of HDZ. My colleague Cain, this is not true, namely the reconstruction of the government, and you, because we are sitting here in the assembly, if you do not agree that this is a refreshment, but I am telling you that it is both the government's refreshment and empowerment, that in the last year of the term of office, take measures of economic recovery, to start investment, and to end negotiations and sign an accession contract as the 28th member of the European Union. And colleague Cain, don't tell me when the election's gonna be. The date of the election is decided by this government! And paraphrasing your discussions, after Damir... Good night, Damir. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65740	Thank you. Mr. Krunoslav Markovović, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65741	Well, here's colleague Cain, when you're already calling on what you're reading, I'm calling you again to find a little press from '89. the year in which it says neatly that the economy is on its knees, that the economy is ruined. Well, clearly by the disappearance of the clearing, the economy is gone, too, over. Furthermore, we are saying, we are skipping all war, war horrors, war events and restoration, and we know the reconstruction was the most expensive in the period from 2000 to 2003 when some ministers made a huge fortune at that restoration. And finally, we admit that a lot of that was bad at privatization. But I also believed that privatisation was bad. But between 2000 and 2003, it was the same form of privatisation and no one was processed that year. According to that, obviously everything isn't as bad as you say it is, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65742	Correction, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65743	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Cain, thank you very much for mentioning Slavonia in your presentation. Apparently our work and our action, even the neighborhood here, has some benefits. Namely, like Archbishop Srakic in his Christmas card, you mentioned the bad situation in Slavonia. And while you've already talked about the price of pigs in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem, then you can get nine kunas free, it's not 10 like you said, so it's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65744	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65745	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Prime Minister, Your Honor, It is Christmastime, therefore, that it is appropriate to remember Jesus ’ words which he taught his disciples by preaching to them on the mountain and guard yourselves against false prophets who come to you in the ruins of the sheep; but inside they are preying. By their fruits you will recognize them. Are grapes harvested from thorns or figs from barbeds? So every good tree produces good fruit, and a bad tree produces fruits for evil. A good tree cannot bear evil fruit, nor can a bad tree produce good fruit. Every tree that does not produce good fruit is cut down and casts into fire. So by their fruits you will recognize them. This is from Matthew's Gospel. Today's Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor's government is the continuity of Sanader's government. She's confirmed it countless times herself. The tree was this planted by Ivo Sanader back in 2004. Simbolically speaking, he was the root and main trunk of that tree, and members of the government were branches that shaped his cross. Some branches, meanwhile, have strengthened and thickened, with their size and shape, form the main contours and today’s treetops. On the contrary, some branches over the past seven years have dried up, dried up and fallen off, and some have been cut off. The fallen or cut branches have been repeatedly replaced with new youngsters. The process is a normal and present long time ago, so there's nothing surprising or unusual about this. But the problem is the fruit. They said to start Croatia and gave birth to the fruits of the first branch. An octopus of organised crime and corruption was born at first small, inconspicuous, but such an appetite that it quickly reached the proportions of the real no one. She put her tentacles through the highest bodies of state authorities and state-owned companies and institutions, devouring everything in her path. And the kunas and the dollars and the euro and the watches and the pictures and the BMWs and the trucks and the planes. She has destroyed tens of billions of kunas of her own people. Croatia has also driven strongly, but not towards the surface and sunny sanctity and a better future, but towards the sink and the dark depths that make it a living environment. They said we guarantee you and gave birth to the fruits of another branch. Instead of reduced taxes, a larger VAT was born and a longer time ago. Instead of economic growth, we arrived at Kyrgyz society. Instead of employment growth, more than 312000 unemployed and more than 80,000 working people were born without pay. Instead of growing standards with a guarantee card, more than 800,000 poor and hungry columns were born in front of the soup kitchens. They said we'd move on and give birth to the third branch. They brought the citizens into debt slavery, and the state on the verge of collapse and bankruptcy. They said the Homeland War was sacred and gave birth to fruits and fourth branches. It's got big letters written in it to locate, identify, arrest and transfer. They said Croatia is not as strong as Zagreb, but as strong as its edges. And she gave birth to the fruits of the fifth branches of Slavonia and Baranja, once the richest near the Republic of Croatia became her most resilient, poorest and underdeveloped region. On the scale of Croatian counties, the last three places are firmly held by Brodo-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska and Požeko-Slavon County. There is also Virovitičko-podravska in the fall zone, and only around the centre of the scale is Osijek-Baranja County. For the end that accounts for 20% of the territory and 20% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, for the end from which 40.3% of all Croatian defenders died during the Homeland War for that part of the Homeland, this government has spent between 4 and 8% of the funds all these seven years. They said everything about Croatia, Croatia for nothing. And she gave birth to the fruit of the sixth branch. Almost all national wealth has been sold out for what – INA, Pliva, telecommunications, banks, hotels, islands, coast. From the master we become servants, the poor on a coffin full of treasures that grace our homeland. They said we'd be the country of the highest democratic standards. And she gave birth to the fruit of the seventh branch. According to the world's latest rankings, by the degree of democracy's development, we have stood proudly by the side of Africa's Botswana. He'd say Thompson, "Well, my people!" The fruits are this tree-born planted by former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. What happened to the root and main trunk of this tree? Where he is, how and why he ended up, we all know him. But we recognize both his and the Government's continuity of Sanader's government and we will recognize it for a long time, by their fruits. The citizens of Croatia have tasted these fruits for 7 years, and every day they feel worse and worse, they are becoming more and more difficult to digest and are increasingly disrupting both physical and mental health. Today we have before us a debate on the government's request to show confidence to the new ministers. Not entering personal reasons and motives, which these candidates for new ministers led to the decision to accept an offer to join the Government of the Continuum of Sanader's Government, appreciating the right of everyone to their own choices, I must say I feel a little sorry for them. Croatia is in a difficult crisis, not only of economic, but also of psychological, severe depression, disappointment, imperceptibility and hopelessness that destroys our people's souls are even more dangerous than the economic crisis itself, but not all hope is lost, and Croatia needs to return this hope, which is the priority of all priorities, in achieving this task it is necessary and welcome help for anyone who can and wants to participate in it. Each of the candidates proposed today for the new members of the government certainly has its virtues, as well as the flaws, as well as any of us, but the government that stole a smile from our citizens' faces cannot bring back the hope lost to those same citizens. So boarding a ship that leaks everywhere and sinks like a Titanic doesn't seem like a wise decision. These seven years, HDZ's authorities have shown that many who have bitten the apple from its tree, passed like Adam and Eve, the path from heaven to hell, or our dictionary from the Ban Courts to Remetinec, but cannot deny that there are also good sides of today's proposals. But the problem of this government isn't just Shucker's last name, or the last names of those ministers leaving this government today, and it's not just organised crime and corruption the biggest problem facing this government. The other day, the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Seks, said they amputate unhealthy tissue in HDZ. Even though you're not a medic, what you said sounds nice and good. But the problem is, Mr. Shacks, you're the mayor of legal procedure and execution, we all acknowledge that, but also the layman of medicine, so it's hard for you to understand the diagnosis of the disease that has affected the party, but also how this disease is being treated. And the disease that destroys the ruling party today is not only about corruption and organised crime, but also about self-destruction, which would only say destroying its own tissue, because at present in the ruling party there are processes that we call autoimmune disease in medicine, a disease where the own body begins to produce antibodies against its own tissue, destroying it tirelessly and very hard to stop. But the victims of this disease must not be the entire state, nor its citizens. This sick body needs peace, isolation, long - term and timely treatment if it wants to keep the chance of healing. In other words, the ruling party should leave power in peace, submit to a thorough diagnostic process and implement radical therapeutic measures if it wants to survive. And in conclusion, almost a year and a half ago, at the inauguration of today's Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor here in the Croatian Parliament said, if I am not mistaken, that she is not afraid to take a hot potato into her hands because it will cut and make a potato salad out of it. You cooked and smiled the potato salad, but unfortunately, many in Croatia are sick, and today they still feel sick. And it is known what is the fate of a restaurant that spoils the stomach and poisons those who taste food, and specialties from their kitchen. Such restaurants are usually sealed and closed. Croatia needs not only the other, but rather and above all a different power. Croatia will not and cannot help any reconstruction of this government, any reconstruction of the HDZ government is a further destruction of the state, so this government does not need to be reconstructed, it needs to be peacefully demonstrated. This reconstruction is just cosmetic beauty. Hoping that any reconstruction of this government will pull the country out of crisis is the same as believing that manicating and nailing on a paralyzed hand will restore the lost function of a disabled hand. The burden of the government's legacy of the Continuity of Sanader's Government is so much so that the people are already told and interesting stories, as a new extraordinary city transport line has been introduced in Zagreb. It rides on the market of victims of fascism from the centre of HDZ to the Banski dvor, from there goes to the Croatian Assembly, and there, after a brief stay at the Club of HDZ Representatives, the chosen passengers are headed directly to the final destination, to Remetinac. It is much longer there, however, but it does not matter, since transportation is only provided in one direction and is not currently in the return card sales plan. I recently heard how the HDZ situation looks like a remounted shipyard, from year to year, the ship is being remanded. 20 years ago HDZ was like the Russian cruiser Aurora, and it was truly honorable to be part of the crew of that ship. For the past seven years, the ship has been transformed into a black pearl, a famous ship that sailed the Caribbean seas in difficult pirate times. Today, this ship looks like a legendary cursed Hollandez, which sails across all seven seas, in a storm lighted with a glare of light, doomed to never come to its home port. We've heard more than once these days that in a questionative and modest organization such as HDZ, they knew nothing or suggested an unrecorded robbery that took place in their backyard. This is not believed by those who have the strength to say this, but even if there is any truth in it, and there is no, gentlemen from the top of HDZ and the government you forget one very important fact, one of the most important tasks of any state government is to defend the state from any external but from any internal enemy. Not knowing and not being awake and ready to defend the state from the internal enemy is as dangerous as not knowing and not being awake and ready to defend the state from the external enemy, because both external and internal enemies are robbing the people, destroying the tissue of the state that they attack and endangering its survival. In not so distant history, Serbia-Montenegro committed an external aggression against Croatia. In the nearer past, Ivo Sanader and his flocks committed a kind of internal aggression. The consequences of both aggressions per country are devastating and catastrophic. But it must be pointed out that because Ivo Sanader robbed his own people, not everyone in HDZ is a thief. However, in HDZ, there are a large number of honest people, but they are not at the top of HDZ. Therefore, no reconstruction of the HDZ government, this government and HDZ will help Croatia, above all, need spiritual restoration, and in Croatia they need new elections that will give it not only another, but also a different and fairer power. The HDSSB Club will not support this proposal to reconstruct the government, because we recognize you by your fruits. Congratulations to all Croatian citizens on Christmas holidays, and to wish everyone a happy, healthy and better year in 2011, I also invite this government to join these wishes, in a way that will make Croatia's citizens the most happy, by leaving the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65746	We have five rectifications of incorrect allegations. First up is Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65747	I would first express my admiration for this spectacular depth of shallowness. Secondly, my colleague Buric mentioned surgery, I was metaphorically talking about surgical procedures, but in some individuals and in some parties it would not be enough and it would not be enough surgery, it is more in the area of psychotherapy, psychiatry and the zone of depressed mania, in the area of schizophrenia, and an artistic gift for unprecedented lying. So, I congratulate Mr. Buric that he has properly diagnosed himself and his own party.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65748	Before I give my word for breach of the Rules of Procedure, I must conclude that doctors interfere in investigative and judicial matters, and lawyers in medicine, which is good, it's like this one, you know I know... but please, if you can without personal insults, it's my constant concern. And that's why I wanted those words before I gave a word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65749	Thank you, Mr. President, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is in several articles, but I will only indicate 209. Mr. Vice President Shakespeare, I personally didn't insult anyone by name, you tried to impute it to me, but be so patient and tolerant but probably what you're saying, you're speaking from your own experience when it comes to psychiatry and psychotherapy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65750	Here's what it all turns into, and you haven't called on, again incorrectly. But we do have, come on this day, after Christmas, before the New Year's Eve we don't start with warnings and so on, so we'll still suffer, until we can't take it anymore. Here, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić also injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65751	Injuring the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, I ask you nicely on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, on behalf of all our patients, on behalf of all our insurance companies, on behalf of all our health professionals, not to make a difference among patients, do not make a difference in diagnosis, do not make a difference between those with physical health and those with mental disorders. What is said today in the Croatian Parliament has crossed the limits of humanity, therefore, I ask you to keep your dignity on behalf of all citizens, all insurance companies and all patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65752	In one word, let's not deal with diagnosis, especially if we're inextricable for that, right? Let's move on, correcting the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65753	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague, I'm correcting your incorrect allegations. The first day in Remetinec is entered and the last day out, as well as the state penitentiary is entered on the first day and the last day is released, clean and peaceful consciences can be entered, but the greater wicked fellow Buric here for this Assembly speaker criticises what you are personally doing. Until recently, as mayor of Osijek-Baranja County, you have illegally taken from the House of Health 100 kuna after the cardiological examination you have performed there, in a classic conflict of interest, so you have abused your position and authority, and to begin with return the money to the House of Health, and the State Attorney's Office in Valpovo would already have handled you only if you were a member of the HDZ would have already been processed, therefore, do not return that small gesture and illegally charged money.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65754	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65755	I am pleased that there are these corrections of incorrect allegations, Article 209, because it tells a colleague about something that was not the subject of the debate but I am glad that you mentioned what you said, Dr Buric is still working. I still work at the House of Health Donji Miholjac and it treats... And I'm still treating patients in Lower Miholjc, and unlike you, I'm not charging them for anything for years because Tomislav Ivić promised... [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65756	You can't go on, it's not a correction of the Rules of Procedure, it's a debate, please. Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65757	I thank you, Mr. President, and I promise that this is my last correction to an incorrect quote because I think we've gone too far and that's why I won't anymore, but I couldn't take this right now. You involved your colleague Buriæ with everything and everything and put the HDZ as an accusation, among other things different companies, and Pliva, which is... long ago and has nothing to do with HDZ, your speeches are indeed a false allegation. Your speeches are truly covered by a personal senseless and reckless conflict with individuals and with HDZ. I still have to say that in your medical expertise when you mentioned autoimmune diseases, one thing you said exactly. You were talking about antibodies that appear in the body. You're a typical antibody like that. You were a burning HDZ officer then, for your personal reasons and reckonings, you turned against the HDZ alone, and that's your basic mission. You don't have your own policy, stay away from HDZ. Your policy can indeed be reduced to dealing with individuals and HDZ with people you were in the party with yesterday and in which you have worked and humiliated so far. And it's at least rude or degutant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65758	Arm yourselves with patience. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65759	Here's article 209 of the esteemed colleague you didn't listen well. I have made it clear and loud that not everyone in HDZ is a thief, that there are honest and large numbers of honest HDZs. But they're unfortunately not at the top of the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65760	We have Mr. Josip Salapic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65761	Thank you very much, President. I would correct two incorrect allegations, in a hurry. The first is the incorrect assumption that HDZ is a remonting hall without success and without reason for repairs. Mr. Buric, one reminder, HDZ won the local committee elections two weeks ago in Osijek, both HDSSB and SDP, and for the first time in ten years, so that we do good remonts, our election results speak. That this change in government is a new force and new momentum for HDZ before EU entry is true. All ministers working in the government in difficult times should be thanked, and new ministers should be given a new wind in the back for Croatia's entry into the EU. And our entry into the Union will release new financial funds and also for our Slavonia. More than 800m euros will be available to our farmers. And if it wasn't all so black in Slavonia and Baranja, it also says that numerous infrastructure projects are just out of Osijek-Baranja County withdrawn from our government and from our ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65762	Thank you. At 11.24, it was time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. And we still have one correction from Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65763	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Buric and I would like to join in this diagnostic competition in a way that I would say. But I really think it's too high after all my predecessors have said. But what I'm saying is that you incorrectly said that HDZ affected autoimmune and other diseases. That's absolutely incorrect. Instead, a new healthy tissue is being created in HDZ. In addition to that, the results in Osijek say for elections for local committees where you went the way you did. And second, you're talking about physical and mental health. Such discussions do not contribute to this Christmas atmosphere, neither physical nor mental health. And I personally worry about your mental health, so as old as... I might say if you don't have an extra one, it would be good to take it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65764	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65765	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the candidate and candidates for members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. In this House, there is obviously an excess medical opinion and an excess legal opinion, and this is a abundant surplus of one and the other, and perhaps it would not be a problem if there were no abundant shortage and medical ethics and legal ethics. This is what Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament as one of the representatives in this House who cares about ethics in speaking from this pay phone, I would like to ask you by not using either business or any other right to use everything you can as chairman to stop this truly unusual inflation of medical opinion without medical ethics, legal opinion without legal ethics in this House. Now allow me colleagues and colleagues to say a few words on behalf of the SSDS Club about what we have gathered together today, which is the reconstruction of the Croatian Government. And right at first, let me say that on behalf of this club, I didn't go out to borrow the government's reshuffle proposal, and even less those who would contribute to that reconstruction by their entry into the government because I didn't find any valid reason why I would do so. I also want to say that I didn't go out to praise this move, or those who have decided to join what this move will bring or what it should bring, because I still don't see all the reasons that would be enough to say praise for what we're doing. But I want to speak on behalf of the SSDS club now, today from this place to say that this club supports reconstruction and supports the proposed new members and members of this government. I also want to say what this trust is which is motivated, which we give to the Prime Ministers and the new members of the government. First of all, we don't see a change in this move that would go to replace old faces with new faces. We already see the intention to start implementing new policies with new people, to start creating elements of new policies that are not only needed by the government but also by Croatia. And if you allow me colleagues and colleagues and Madam President, we see these new measures on behalf of the SDSS Club in the next formula, in the formula that we would express mathematically 2+2+1. This formula of measure 2+2+1 would meet or should meet as far as we're concerned, ladies and gentlemen, in the next. First, stopping the growth of indifference in the state. Individence has been growing in the past few years, worrying both at speed and size, and has reached 35 billion kunas. The new members and members of the government with you, Madam President, with the support you have from us, should ensure that this trend of growth is stopped because if this trend of growth does not stop then it is not possible to stop the asphyxiation of the economic activity that is under way, it is not possible to stop the reduction of the current state revenues and it is not possible to stop the rise in unemployment that is under way. The second thing we expect is to stop the growth of unemployment that has passed 18% in the first 8 months of this year, partly because of the general crisis conditions around us, and in the first place, in our view, because of insufficient agility and insufficient activity of ourselves, and in some cases insufficient inventiveness. Stopping the growth of unemployment is considered a goal, we consider it a target, ladies and gentlemen, which this government should show in the first months of the following year not only in measures but also in results. The third measure should refer to stopping the decline in production, especially those industrial production that some colleagues and colleagues here have spoken much better and much more competently than I can talk about in the past months and years because the decline has reached more than 4.5%. For this reason, it is necessary to find measures that will stop and reroute such a trend. Fourthly, what we find extremely important and what we trust and believe in, given the composition of the new members of the government, the new proposed members of the government, is to stop the drop in investments, whether domestic or foreign, because from 2008 until today, investments in the Republic of Croatia have been halved. Of the €83 billion in 2008 it fell to around 40 billion today. We ladies and gentlemen must, our government must do everything possible to stop this fall and to target domestic and foreign investors towards the investment opportunities that this country certainly exists. This last measure, which does not apply to 2+2 but +1, will be something that I repeat on several occasions in this House, either in terms of budgeting, or in terms of budget rebalances, which is a matter of better and fairer regulation of banking capital in the Republic of Croatia, because the rates of bank services and interest rates are one of the sources of asphyxiation of economic growth and one of the sources of doing our economy uncompetitive and incompetent in the international market. Because our exporting companies are already in advance becoming uncompetitive precisely because the cost of banking capital in Croatia makes them in itself uncompetitive. And therefore, Madam President, I think it is time to find the measures that banking capital in Croatia will regulate in such a way that it will not be asphyxiation of economic growth, it will not be asphyxiation of exports and the collapse of the overall competitiveness of our economy. In other words, the Independent Democratic Serb Party club does not expect new people, new members and members of the government to just put out fires or patch holes, but quickly apply measures that will make what needs to fall, which are indifference and unemployment, not growing, and what needs to grow, and these are production and investment, do not fall. This, in these conditions, looks like an impossible mission, looks like an impossible task, but you've accepted it, and you've received our trust, and we appreciate your gesture for that. But we would like to say that this is not just about our trust in you, nor is it just about the citizens' trust in you and the government entirely. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say that this is actually about our society and it is about our country that is at a really critical moment whether it will have the power to turn, whether it will have the power to reroute from yesterday, which has not lasted since 2008, which has not lasted since 2007, which we should have the strength to stop this trend and then reroute it. I would also like to say two more things, especially the Prime Ministers and the new members of the government as a member of the ruling coalition, as a member of the party that gives this reconstruction confidence. First, we think there can be no policy that will bring the country out of the crisis unless it takes care of regional development and equalisation of development in Croatia. The differences that exist between Zagreb and Vukovar, the differences that exist between Rijeka and Knin, the differences that exist between Zadar and Clay are unacceptable. Inadmissible from a series of aspects because, in my opinion and in our opinion, these differences lead to people being placed in a position that is contrary and fundamental to the provisions of our Constitution, not only by the social state mechanisms but also by the mechanisms of fundamental civil equality and elemental equality in relation to the acquisition of the right to education, the acquisition of the right to work. I'm calling you from this pay phone, ma'am, and I'd like to invite you gentlemen to do everything possible to change that. Because people living in Vukovar, Knin, Glini deserve at least the minimum of those opportunities and their children that we have living in Zagreb, Rijeka, Pula or Dubrovnik. I would also like to say that since the composition of the government is such that it represents to a considerable extent the people who run our economy and that is certainly good and that is certainly necessary under these circumstances. But I would like to remind you, as one of the coalition partners, that the policy of growth related to investment policy or any other measures, we will not be able to ensure that we will not be able to restore our partnership with the unions and develop this partnership. We will also not be able to ensure this policy unless we can make the position of employees of especially workers in Croatia better than it is, that their legal certainty, their working security and the overall rights they should have from work are not destroyed and reduced from day to day. For this reason, we believe that these two things about regional development as well as about social partners will also be taken into account by the working-dependence population as well as by what your basic goals are for which you come to the government. I want to repeat once again that with your choice, this government, in the opinion of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, is getting a lot. I also want to say that it is not only the chance of this government, but that it is the chance of this society. And for that reason, we will support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65766	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, HSU's representative, Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65767	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister with Vice-Presidents of the future and most likely future ministers, colleagues and colleagues. What's this about? In the opinion of the HNS and HSU, everything that is done must have some meaning or should have some meaning. What my esteemed colleague Pupovac just said would be justified in our opinion that it is the beginning of a four-year term of office of a government, so now that government has different tasks to do. But as we know, it's not about that. So this is not the beginning of this government's mandate. This is the end of this government's term. The objectively speaking, this government has eight months until the start of the election campaign. Practically watching this House will be sitting for about six and a half months. So, what's this all about? This government has two tasks to complete what it has started by cleaning up in its high-level corruption and possibly ending the negotiations as soon as possible. In this time that's left and that's a lot, and that's a lot. In order for anything to be expected beyond that is simply absurd, if in seven years, in seven years, it has failed by swearing to every person who has failed, left, ended up in prison, in detention, in court, etc. has failed to do anything positive about the economy but we are where we are, that it will now be done with 6 and a half months of Parliament and 8 months before the start of the election campaign, so nobody in this Assembly can really believe it, including here present members and members of the Government and future members and members of the Government. Let's see who's leaving. The former or soon-to-be former Ministers Suker, Matulovic-Dropulic, Vukelic, Biskupic. Šuker, Matulović-Dropulić, Vukelić people who are extremely unpopular in public and whose names relate to different affairs in the media discussed widely. Bishop, who is known to be very close to former Prime Minister Sanader, asked himself at the outset to get rid of him. So, people who are unpopular, whose names are bound by affairs and one person who is directly related to the former prime minister. Who's staying? There are also some people whose names are connected in public to very large affairs and where some people who are headed by public companies in whom they as ministers were in charge at this time in detention or in court. However, those who obviously either enjoy trust or are too strong within the HDZ have too many representatives in this House. So this very fact that their names are bound by affairs and it is not dangerous because they have too much support here and are too strong in the party itself. Which is the function of these shifts 8 months before the likely decommissioning of the Parliament because of the elections when the budget for the last year of this government's mandate has already been passed, defined, here advertised as the best of all budgets if you remember and who probably already has a plan for rebalancing that best of all possible budgets that are being praised here in the Parliament. Because the function of these shifts is? In the opinion of us at the HNS and HSU club, the function of these shifts is to ensure the first people on HDZ lists for the elections for the Parliament. Because neither Šuker nor Matulović Dropulić nor Vukelic, and probably not Biskupić can be the first people on HDZ lists for the Parliament. And if that were to change, let's say, just a month before Parliament's disbandment, it might be a little bit too obvious, and maybe it wouldn't have any effect. The only logic we see in these shifts is to ensure these people who come potentially, and it is normal for the former ministers to be led or the first people on the lists in individual election units, to avoid that Schuker, Matulović Dropulić, Vukelić and Biskupić will eventually be the first people on HDZ lists in next year's elections, rather than be those people who come today, so they are not those who are unpopular and largely compromised in public, but some new people. Who's coming to the government, and why? Well, now this is only in Croatia. In a situation where the prime minister who started this mandate, in prison, in which the Deputy Prime Minister who started this mandate, in court and partly convicted and was in custody, in which one minister was illegally sentenced to four years in prison, in which the cashier of the party carrying this government in custody told such things that, as the media say, USKOK will interrogate the entire government, in which a whole number of people who are head of state companies in custody, or were in custody and in court, and are members of this party, why are you ladies and gentlemen candidates for ministers and ministers entering this government? Why are you coming in? In every normal country, in just one of these affairs, the entire government would resign. For the sake of just not a small affair, if the prime minister who started this mandate had been in custody on the run, the entire government would resign. I suppose you don't think that in eight months you can change and do something, unless, of course, you're counting on me to cancel the election, so there won't be a choice anymore. What are you doing? You're saving HDZ? Well, you don't need HDZ to save yourself, he'll save himself anyway. You're extending the power of the HDZ government. Why do you extend the power of the HDZ government? No one wants that government in this country anymore. The government has no legitimacy, the government has not won elections, the person who won the elections is in custody in Austria, so no one wants that government, under conditions when the government leadership that started this term in custody or in court would have long been in elections in any normal country. How long do you intend to extend this government's mandate? The HNS and HSU club will vote against this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65768	Thank you. Mrs. Neda Klaric asked for a correction to the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65769	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here is the incorrect quote by Ms. Pusic, who says the government's reconstruction is in the function of ensuring first seats on HDZ lists for the next parliamentary elections. That is an incorrect quote, Mrs Pusic. On the contrary, the purpose and purpose of the government's reconstruction is the improvement of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, economic recovery, Croatia's entry into the European Union, as well as the continuation of an unfavourable and uncompromising battle in the fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65770	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65771	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's an incorrect assumption that the election will be in six months. The elections will take place until 4 March 2012, and you will certainly not determine the date of the election, as you will neither determine who will be first on the lists of the Croatian Democratic Community. And when you talk about democratic standards, then look at your party. From Ferenskak, out of debts in Varazdin County, from Zlatar, etc., and when you talk about standards, look at the neighbouring Slovenia in which the minister who committed a small traffic violation, only a small one, was a little under the influence of alcohol, so he immediately offered to resign and left his political functions. And what did your little chateau do? What did your little chateau do? He knows both Croatian and Hungarian public. Instead of accepting democratic standards, you are not ready to accept democratic standards, and you are not fighting corruption or anything. This is your client. Shame on you. You're ashamed, not us.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65772	Thank you. Don't throw away, and don't particularly throw away offensive words, so we'll finish this session sooner if it doesn't. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65773	So I'm correcting several incorrect allegations by Mrs. Pusic. Mrs. Pusic asks why you gentlemen are entering the government, which is why, and you are surprised that it is not true that they want to help this country out of the crisis. So they probably want their knowledge, their abilities, their professionalism, their freshness, as the party president said and the Prime Minister to bring something new into this government. You were talking about the lists and you tried to edit the election lists, I don't think it was a topic at all, and that's not why they're going in. You also say no one wants this government anymore. So we have the majority, you see, and today we have the majority in this Croatian Parliament, that we have more than the required majority, and as long as we have that majority, that's a reflection of our election results and we have the right to do so and that's democratic right, and that's a democratic standard.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65774	Thank you. Mrs. Sumrak, correcting the incorrect, Miss Sumrak, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65775	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the show Mrs. Pusic didn't surprise me very much, because their president is asking the same thing. Mrs. Pusic, you've said so many lies and lunches that it's just all hard to fix in one. One thing is the fact, true, not one man won the election, but the HDZ party won and will win the HDZ party again. You said one wrong thing to have, first you said six months, then eight months, no, it's all year, this government is in continuance and it has its objectives and tasks to do. And another thing, it's a shame when you mention Mr. Cacic, Ferenčak, it's a shame when Chichin-Shain is mentioned, your members, when you mention Chief Zlatar who hasn't received an aunt in kindergartens pay for a year, it's a shame that you are offended. That you are offended because you are arrogant, hypocritical, so let's say about as Mr. Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65776	Ms. Representative Ana Lovrin, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65777	Thank you very much, Mr. President, in a number of incorrect allegations, but here's one, Mrs. MP said that any government would resign if any public affair had broken out, that's not true. Because the HNS government and the SDP have not resigned after the conflict of interest has been rightly established, the same man has been elected president of the party, but it is in a trend because members of the party's presidency that I am not repeating and not listing names have been unlawfully convicted of conflicts of interest and some of them seem to me by power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65778	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65779	Well, that's article 209 since something that I didn't say and I wasn't talking about is fixed. But when it is already corrected to say about the commission that has identified the conflict of interest here, the State Attorney's Office has answered the question of your distinguished colleague Markovanovic, and the answer has been distributed to all of us, that as far as this is concerned, even the BIAK has investigated and has no basis for doubting the conflict of interest, therefore, you have this answer from the State's Attorney's office, and not from the HDZ Commission, and I ask you to stick to the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65780	Correction of the incorrect allegations Vice President Shakespeare had, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65781	Mrs. Pusic incorrectly said that no one wanted this government, a month ago there was a debate here when you tried to shoot down the government, debate and vote on the government's trust. The Prime Minister received confidence in this House a month ago with a good majority, therefore, your claim that no one wants this government, this government, is probably not you, it's your democratic right not to want this government, but don't argue wrongly and contrary to all the conclusions of logic that no one wants this government, you don't want it, and it's okay that you don't want it, and we don't want you for the government again.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65782	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65783	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's the last sentence I answered from Mrs. Pusic, you said Mrs. Pusic that no one would want this government, and in the context of further discussion, you said no one would either HDZ. That's not true, if that's how it is then HDZ in these local elections that happened in several cities, you wouldn't win, and he won't win, and here it is to you for a long time, and you won't be prime minister especially for you to run the government, write it off, you won't experience it. As much as you worry and as much as you yell in this House, you will not be a Croatian people and an ad act.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65784	Okay, we'll know in the election, we don't know anything now. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65785	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Croatian Government, gentlemen vice-presidents, ministers and future ministers and dear colleagues. Here, with great interest, I listened to this professional medical discussion, which involved diagnosis on the one hand and on the other, so for a moment I thought I was at one of my professional conventions. However, I can tell you there our debates are even more bile than these here, so it still needs to be aware of democratic frameworks and that is democracy, only it's a good thing that in democracy the final diagnosis and therapy are not prescribed by the final doctors but by our voters. So anyone acting in front of a microphone can expect that kind of diagnosis and therapy from our constituents. BUT we're even better at it than some other parliaments because we're giving each other a diagnosis and they're slapping themselves and I see that it's also going into the frameworks of democracy that we hope we won't follow. The debate is bile because it is a serious topic, the government's reconstruction is a serious political issue in all parliaments of all countries, and of course with us. So I will focus on why the reconstruction, why at this time and why we in Croatia consider the democratic community to be a good moment and that they are good human resources. So, the government's reconstruction at this point because Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor's government has done a very difficult part of a year and a half, a very difficult part of which she has achieved the results that I'm about to list, which someone wants and someone doesn't agree with, and that's democracy. Following the final of a year or a few days, and every good coach adjusts his team to strategic tasks, the strategic tasks of the last year are something different than in the previous part of the mandate of a year and a half, for strategic reasons and strategic goals and political tasks I think this is the right time to create a reconstruction in which we cannot say bad things are coming, but we should simply say such a strategic moment is that it requires a different approach and a different political struggle for the goals that Mrs. Kosor's government has set and which are actually the goals of the great majority of Croatian people and Croatian citizens and citizens. So over the past year and a half, Mrs. Kosor and her current government and her former ministers have shown that the helm is being taken over when the ship begins to sink. She received her mandate at the time when the wave of the global and of course European economic crisis clapped Croatia as well. This was the moment when all our economic indicators went downhill, the moment we were afraid of, which came to Croatia a little later than in other countries because of the structure of our services-based economy, those based on material production came just ahead of us in order, but of course that crisis couldn't get past us. And I think that Mrs. Kosor's former government composition has responded well to the task at that time both politically and economically because the whole team has been confronted with new circumstances. And that's why the government has taken measures of economic recovery, and that's why the government has moved on to work, implemented these measures, as it has implemented, we can look politically differently, but the indicators are unorthodox and the indicators are those that say it carried them out well, because at this point Croatia is on its way out of the crisis. And that's this strategic moment that I was talking about when it really needs to change the team because there's something coming where fighting is different than in the deepest crisis itself. So, what when I think and say that Croatia is coming out of the crisis that I mean by that? First of all, we must say that we are very pleased with what we hear about Croatia when we go to Brussels for our meetings. Here is my colleague Klemenić and I were recently invited to the IPP Finance Committee and there was a very serious one, I would say the most serious European topic, and this is the financial plan for the next 10 years by 2020. And there they were comparing not the standard of living about it, but they were comparing the financial discipline of certain countries. And I can tell you that we felt very proud when we listened to what was said about Croatia. At this point, due to various interests on the one hand, those who are working and spending and on the other hand those who are slightly less disciplined failed to bring their own budget. Europe is going into temporary financing. Croatia has made its budget among the first in Europe. In this way, the safe framework for economic development in 2011. We have also listened to commendable indicators that say that we are in a crisis able to master what we have created. The biggest problem in the EU countries is that in the crisis, they have become so indebted that the issue of agreements is how many years, and it will take a lot of them to fix what they spent in the crisis. So they compared two indicators. One is a government budget deficit. The deficit of the EU's state budget exceeds 6%, the deficit of the Croatian budget is planned below. And that's where we got the big compliments. And their goal, of course, is that when Croatia becomes a regular member, and they said in a saying that Croatia is one of the examples that the crisis does not allow the deficit to rise above 6%, and we have proved in our current budgets and in the next budget. The second analysis is the public debt relative to the gross domestic product. Croatia has about 47.48%, unfortunately over 60%. Some members over 80, some over 100%. They also pointed to the quality of the Croatian government's work over the past year and a half, which resulted in a sustainable public debt. And we were proud to hear that one Croatia which is not a member in terms of financial discipline in terms of the financial correctness of its decisions in terms of public debt discipline could be better than a large number of EU members. And I think Prime Minister Kosor's government did great. And it's not just me, it's the ones who told us about it. The second thing to be attributed to this government in plus is yesterday's Eurostat report on the standard of European countries, members and not EU members. The standard measured by the average purchasing power of citizens in Croatia is in the deepest crisis compared to the EU standard corrected. That's what we announced, because we said that the average salary in the crisis even increased 1% in Croatia, and now we have Eurostat's confirmation that says: "If the EU standard is 100%, Croatia has 65%". Are we satisfied with that? Of course we're not, and we're gonna be trying to get up there. But parallel countries in the region, countries that didn't have a bloody war, which didn't have 30% of the territory destroyed, all the infrastructures that didn't have to buy weapons, which didn't have a million refugees and exiles, those countries are standing far, far worse than us. So compared to 65% of Croatia's Central Standard, I will only mention that Serbia has 37%, that Macedonia has 36%, that the Bulgarian EU member has 44% of the European standard. And that's what the government has done so far, and that's what the government so far deserves, and it needs to be put into good results. I know someone will say one thing are numbers another is reality. The reality of each one looks through its prism, and we still need to look at numbers through a prism called objectivity. At this point, four ministers are leaving who contributed to what I was just talking about. Therefore, we are not talking about the departure of the bad, but about the departure of those who have done their share with dignity and dignity. And we are talking about the arrival of those I am sure of, because I know them and my share to do with dignity and dignity to a member of the Croatian Government. And why is this exactly the choice of these honorable men? As the Prime Minister said before us are two great tasks that we must complete in the next few months. Pre-accession negotiations that must be completed by half a year and an economic recovery that must go much faster in the recovery phase than it was in the stage of exiting the crisis itself. And that is why top experts such as fellow Milosevic enter this government, such as Mrs. Martina Dalic, people who can give at the last stage of a new breath, new ideas, a new support so that within a year these indicators that I was talking about could point out with even more pride. And that's why it's a good strategic moment, and that's why it's a good choice of personnel, and that's why they're good and they're good positions and people's positions are placed in vice-presidential positions because I think they're people who are compatible, who can co-operate with each other and who can provide Croatia with the standard that they deserve, and that's at the top, and not just in the middle of the European Union's standards. And that's why we consider both time and choice of personnel to be good. And our colleagues who return to the Parliament, I am sure that they will improve the quality of our club and our Parliament in total, that they will introduce as many arguments as possible into our political battle as possible, as much emotion as possible, as much truth as possible, as little diagnosis as possible, as much of what is good for Croatia, and as little as possible of what does not seem very likable in the eyes of our voters, and these are our arguments and often inappropriate words. And I am sure that this government will successfully lead Croatia to the signing of the contract, bring it out of the crisis. And yet I am certain of one thing as a member of the Croatian Democratic Community, that with this staff and with this composition, this government will prepare everything for the next elections to continue to lead Croatia in the European Union and thus prevent one great curse from my colleague Zoran Milanovic, who said yesterday, which is that Croatia will blush. Croatia will not blush, it was red 50 years of shame, it has been red in the last few years of the 1990s. Croatia will never be red again, and with that wish I congratulate you on a happy Christmas-high head because I congratulated it before '90, so I got a head-on from my colleagues on the left and therefore I understand those who until '90. They shouldn't have congratulated Christmas. But that's why we have our own Croatia and our own government so Merry Christmas and those who have celebrated it before, who celebrate it now and who will begin to celebrate it in the future. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65786	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Ms. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65787	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Prime Minister. The debate on behalf of our club will be very much expected because we will, of course, support the right of the president to choose his associates, to choose his associates and to choose both the public and the representatives, we all know that this time it is about ministers who can be said to be ministers of this government because of course it will be shared and responsibility. At the end of this term, the responsibility of the president will primarily be yours, yours first of all, yours first of all, but then of course ours, all of us who support you. We're gonna have to make the bills eventually. It's no secret that several of us club representatives thought that this government reconstruction should have been done before, that it might have taken something deeper, but we think it's better to do a reconstruction now than not to do it. One year until the election, it's a lot. That's what I'm saying first of all to those who say this is too short. It's a lot in politics, it's a lot in the economy, it's a lot in the standard. If you look at what happens in politics in a year, how many names disappear, how many names come into existence, and how many people show another face to us new. What it means in the economy, as long as the company closes in a year, I daren't say how much it opens this year. What does that mean in standard, how many people arrive at employment agencies? And no one has the right to waste a year, no one has the right to waste any time, and especially not for a whole year. If you ask the citizens, then it will turn out that there are always some elections in Croatia. If we were to go by the logic that a year before the elections the year in which nothing important changes, then we would say that every new government at the beginning of the mandate, not of course you who are now coming, has 90 days to half a year for programmes and for stalking. So when we remember that in the local elections in which both MPs and the government always participate, you will reach half the term of office. It doesn't have a serious country that could take it. It is therefore perfectly logical that it is also responsible, that the last year of the term of office is done with full steam and with the same such and responsibility. In addition, there are countries where such changes and such phenomena are not great news. See France, which also had a government reconstruction about a year before the election. I want to tell the new ministers that, in fact, that they should be told happily, you'll need luck. In time, there may be another part of Croatia's programme now. Returning trust or perhaps more precisely, creating trust in the rule of law to investors who need to come to Croatia, working in the economy, destroying administrative barriers and raising standards. You don't have much time, but I'm sure most of you know that you can do it, and that's why I say it again happily.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65788	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65789	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here after the club representatives spoke, I think it's time I just reacted to something that's been said, which seems important to me, and first of all I want to say one fact. She's legal, but she's every other person. Some who have said that the government's mandate will be extended in this way, so the government's mandate does not extend, the government's mandate continues until the elections. The government's mandate runs until the elections and it is also a constitutional category. I also want to say what is a fact that everyone in political life knows, the elections win or lose parties, and these elections were won by a party that I am at the head of and after that we formed a coalition that is the ruling coalition. This coalition is stable, I repeat once again, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which I am running today, has the support of MPs and MPs, and that is also a fact which is also a constitutional category, and I think that in the parliamentary democracy, the task of all of us is to respect the Constitution, respect parliamentary democracy and the fact that the Government is responding to the Parliament, which means that the Government is elected by the Croatian Parliament, to elect representatives and MPs. And as long as the government has confidence, the government has a mandate. Therefore, on all the calls I heard from the opposition orders that we should resign and that we should go to elections I do not accept, we do not accept. In fact, I think we've done an extremely good job since July last year. If nothing else, we've blocked the negotiations. Remember what the situation was like in July last year. So the negotiations are hopelessly blocked, the unresolved issue that could be the key to the deblocking of negotiations and we are all to the common forces. So the ruling coalition managed to finish by the end of last year. And I repeat again. We have all the chapters open today, 28 closed. And I would love to testify today, unfortunately I don't testify with all of you, if at least that fact backs up, I won't say confession but to support at least individuals of the opposition ranks. Because Croatia's strategic goal, the entry into the European Union, would have to be a common goal, at least according to that alliance for Europe that we have actually concluded long ago. Today, however, we are witnessing that narrow party interests are among some above those of those interests that we call interests in Croatia and Croatia's future. I must say, despite the fact that I've been in this business for a long time and that I've been in politics for a long time that I've been really shocked by some of the debates because it turns out that we are discussing the Croatian Democratic Community today without discussing the government and what the government is going to do next year. Therefore, no one will determine but only the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia until we work in this composition. Only the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and certainly the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament. And I wish we had received instead of words of hate, instead of words of humiliation, humiliation and government as a whole and the Croatian Democratic Community and myself personally that we had received a word of support and encouragement and community in the fight against corruption. Unfortunately, we didn't hear that today. In fact, we heard a hate speech, because whenever someone in the ranks of the Croatian Democratic Community dares to talk about any criminal act, about any thieving act that has arisen in the grips of any other party then we hear you cast shame on any representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. I think it is above all rude, but it also shows that some in this House, which is sad, do not support absolutely in any segment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the fight against corruption because they are clearly afraid that this fight would come to their threshold. And I once again and on this occasion, and now I call everything is not too late, join us, support us, and give us one sentence that reads: Fighting corruption to the last breath, regardless of the name and name, and regardless of the political option and who the party belongs to. And the last thing I'm trying to say is that Mrs. Pusic said something that I'm surprised she doesn't know, that USKOK will question the entire government. This was denied by the State's Attorney's office. So, Ms. Pusic quotes the media, but apparently she does not have access to the computer at least to read the statement that came from that state institution that this is not the case. And it is absolutely certain that any of us who would be invited to say some of the facts he knows about is obliged, regardless of which position, in which position he is in, in what capacity he behaves and what he is called as any other citizen and citizen of the Republic of Croatia to respond to the institutions of the Croatian state because that is the only way we can be successful in fighting corruption. I invite you to join us in that. And it certainly is, ladies and gentlemen, that this team that I believe today after your support enters the government can also bring new power and new energy because our only and real goal is to strengthen the Croatian economy, end the negotiations, go to the referendum. I repeat once again, and after that, we'll discuss when the elections will be. Finally, the very fact that the elections will be prematurely called for by an opposition that will not happen or within the regular period as it will be, and as of course, the Constitution does not mean that the government, as some wish, will fall as a mature pear from a branch. I guess that's what all of us who live and work in political space know well. But regardless of the election results, I repeat 2011 must be given years, it must be a successful year because of Croatia's future and therefore once again I ask you to support the new ministers and ministers and the new Deputy Prime Ministers. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65790	Thank you. So we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65791	Here is Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister. So, listening to today's debate, first of all, we see that this is actually all a big disappointment, but not a disappointment in the government, but a disappointment in themselves because they predicted that when the Prime Minister today took this most responsible duty in Croatia a year and a half ago, that it would take a short time. However, it takes, lasts, and will last for much longer. Unfortunately, and that's why I'm not surprised, actually, here's this panic in their ranks. At least today, thank you, fellow Members, today is the least spoken of actually this topic that we have today, which is the introduction of new people to the government, and that is a good sign at the end of the line, because there is obviously no one to say anything against any of the already known people here. We know that here's Minister Cobankovic jumped always there when it was the hardest and the worst, and we were all happy that he was there instead of the rest of us, which actually turned out always very well. We know that this is also a recognition for Minister Jandrokovic, the entry this year, and surely, that is, the completion of the negotiations of this year, and the recognition of the entrepreneurial fahu, I must say that here is except here is Minister Đura Popijac, who comes to us as Vice-President of the Government again, which is obvious, which is the direction of this government, and we know all about Ms. Martina Dalic, whom everyone praises, everyone praises for being interesting, even opposition, which is indeed a great sign and good choice. Here is the minister who will take over the not-so-simple ministries, and whom I really want here is a lot of success, Mr. Santakovic, Mr. Mesic, I believe today is the day we can say he will give a new flight to the government. Let's see what it's really about, what the government is talking about most normally. He normally talks about jobs, talks about entrepreneurs, and entrepreneurs, without entrepreneurs, have no jobs. What has the government done so far? So watch out, we're talking about over four hundred working zones, so the extraordinary conditions for investment, she found investment projects, investment projects, especially foreign investments that would be welcome, but also our financial consortiums. Here I have to say that here I have a rich experience about bringing entrepreneurs, because here I am 17 years in local self-government, 12 years in the top place there and we've brought in an extremely large number of entrepreneurs, and we're proud of that and that they've hired a lot of people. What do entrepreneurs need? First of all, they need cheap, so to speak, building permits, so cheap utility contributions, they need to first of all have an idea of what to produce, how to make money on what to produce, which is hard and quite insecure today, normally with all this media link of every proposal being spoken, so the blackness that's spreading, which is bad for the entrepreneurial climate, so they need good roads, and I think they have most of it. So anyone who comes and that's a great idea is to help, when he comes across the obstacle and there is a obstacle, there are still some spatial plans and if it is necessary to commend Minister Matulović Dropulić here who has forced all municipalities and cities to make spatial plans. So watch out for a small number of 20 percent of municipalities and cities had spatial plans until recently, and there was a great job done, because without good spatial plans, there is no investment. So as far as the entrepreneurship climate is concerned, I think we're in good swing, and it's going to contribute very quickly to getting out of the crisis. Let's see a little bit of what the opposition actually offers. I have to thank my colleague Pusic here, now she's gone, which she keeps mentioning me, for my question, but it should also be said that privatisation and malfeasance do not go out of date, and an interesting state attorney's office has written that Radimir Cacic is not guilty, because based on the findings of the state audit, and for every other ministry, for every other man, this audit is not worth it. So obviously someone has done a superficial job there, and we're going to help them finish this job, because the State's Attorney's Office will also have to answer our questions where the missing garages and the business premises on Cres, as they've created double contracts in Vukovar, one with the clause key in their hands, the other without, where the contracts are all probably no one read, with 7 annexes, with 7 annexes in which, say, an annex plus 10 million versus 7 million competitions, so a whole series of things that definitely, not only conflict of interest, but also crime. So, when former Minister Cacic tells us about honesty, let's remember this, they can list in a hundred contracts that I've studied and where most of it is truly subject to an ongoing review of the State's Attorney's Office. But good thing it's there. We're also offered in some future SDP government. In the SDP there's obviously a law of silence, in Sicily it seems to me that they call it a distraction or something. As nearly 5m euros of bribes from Daimler have been distributed, apparently justly, as soon as no one complains, but before it clears up, I don't think they'll be as relevant as any candidate for, in the next election. I'm glad that here's colleague Cain at any moment of the HDZ attack, but I think he and his mayor have a lot to clarify, all those malfeasances that took place in Istria, to believe them, and since everyone is silent then there's no reason to believe them, and I believe that the State's attorney has the strength to do the job until the end, because only such work will restore trust in us who in some way are leading this country, so legislatively, the rest of the executive power is normal, and the judiciary because by processing all of them we can say we're starting over, we're moving clean, and only in this way can we do a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65792	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65793	Thank you very much, esteemed Prime Minister, with his associates. I think this is the point where it should be pointed out in any case that this government has already proved its consistency, that as difficult as it was in the time of recession, the financial crisis, which was not only of Croatia, will not and has not at any time made such decisions as would be at the expense of workers, at the expense of citizens, whether wages, pensions are reduced, etc. But the best way to see it is from next year's budget, that this government will not do the same thing in this regard, and that both workers and pensioners can be sure that they will not be reduced by their existence, means what they actually live on and on what they live on. In today's economic crisis in the world, and especially in the Republic of Croatia, I personally think that this is a great courage, but apparently our prime minister has this courage, and apparently has the strength to deal seriously with all the problems that obviously rock our Croatia, but they are not only our country, they are also characteristic of other countries. She's dealing with corruption, she's dealing with unemployment, she's falling living standards, and I believe that finally this government is going to win. As far as the economic recovery programme that is generally supported in this country is concerned, let us remind ourselves that it has been supported by all relevant experts in the economy and also in the policy area, this government is implementing this programme in the interests of those who have chosen them, which are citizens, i.e. those to whom it corresponds and serves. Normally, the implementation of such a programme will contribute to both economic development and growth and exiting this unemployment, from this crisis where we are and where it is seen that we are slowly coming out of it. And in order for such a programme to be successfully implemented, the prime minister could implement and justify the programme that I said was generally justified in the state, so let her choose her own associates, persons and people with whom she will implement such a programme. And that is why there is no need for any indignation that we, in principle, have had the opportunity to hear from our colleagues from the opposition, but, in my opinion, I should support this government, I should congratulate her that she wants to be taken into account, and at this moment she has both a perspective and a vision of how to get out of this situation where Croatia is today. But those who criticize can openly tell you they deceive the public. They, they don't care so much if these citizens get better, because in principle they want to make it worse for the citizens, because they see their ability to come to power because that's why they call for a non-stop election. But the fact is that the government is safe, and in politics it's normal to know that the real enemy is always with you and she certainly knows that she has a real enemy and that enemy is following her, and I don't think she's gonna get rid of him so fast, but she knows him, she detected him, and it's important. Despite the burdensome weather, this government has never been as shaken as here, I will remind you of the government in which the SDP and the HNS participated and I do not see here the president and the IDS and any other party, when the Prime Minister also resigned, when the Deputy Prime Minister resigned, when the unions asked for the resignation of that government, when citizens protested against that government, these are facts, these are evidence, this government has never experienced it, this government has never deceived the workers. Remind yourself that in 2000, the government that won the elections promised workers 200 thousand new jobs, and what these workers got. As soon as they came to power, they got 40% less pay, they got frozen salaries, they got disrespect for collective contracts that had to be paid later by this government, they were simply a bigger stepmom than the male workers and those citizens who chose them and expected them to do something for them. But that's why they were good servants of their boss of the International Monetary Fund at the time who, even now, are often called upon and would like to come back because it is the same thing to happen to this government. You can see that as hard as this government didn't accept it, it didn't accept it because it knows what the consequences are. The consequences would be citizens' existence because they don't have big salaries anyway, they don't have big pensions, they're hard to live and they're normal to be one disaster like that from 2000 to 2003 until we finally got rid of the IMF. You're saying it's interesting to listen to who is and when, nobody here cares about who's the quality of man, which that man can contribute to in his work improves and in such a way that we all go out together rather than you're troubled by who he is and when. So speaking of who, when we call the former Prime Minister Sanader, we must look the truth into the eyes and say that Sanader has made a huge contribution to SDP in human resources policy, you've got a president, who has been practically hired by Sanader at the Foreign Ministry, and that's his political takeoff. So he made a big contribution to the SDP you today have Milanovic as party president, it was Sanader's chamber, but that's why you don't replace him as far as I see it. In addition to criticising everything else and everything else, and so I think it would be good for my colleagues to get rid of the stockings of work and stop constantly subduing this government and ask for new elections if you want the citizens well, if you want this Croatia well, then respect that the style grows small things and disagrees with the biggest decay. This government, as you can see, no matter what you're insulting it, you're criticizing it, and it's still giving you your hand, and it's calling you to cooperate, and I don't think it's right, and it's going to break up what we're talking about, then we need to support this government, congratulate her, and I want to give her all the best and co-workers of the prime minister, and normally it's in the interest of all of us, our children and the citizens of this country to start certain cycles as soon as possible and to get out of this situation we are in, and therefore I congratulate you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65794	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65795	Thank you, Mr. President. I would start with a question that stems from the discussion of opposition leaders in this House and concerns the work of this government so far, so I would ask, if we are as bad as the SDP and HNS leaders are trying to determine how we are now on the threshold of entry into the European Union. How are we now in the conclusion of negotiations with the European Union? How is that possible? What can be drawn from this conclusion that we are so bad and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is headed by President Jadranka Kosor to do some bad work while at the same time reaching the strategic goal of the Republic of Croatia, which is to join the European Union. So, certainly, that the thesis they are placing and trying to place the leaders of SDP and HNS here today in the Croatian Parliament and others not to speak, that this thesis is absolutely not standing. In fact, under the chairmanship of Jadranka Kosor, the Croatian government has made a huge step forward in continuing negotiations, and in this respect a great effort has been made today when we have 28 chapters closed, when the negotiations in the remaining 6 chapters are to be completed, today we can say that we are indeed at the end of such a very important process, which is what absolutely the Government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor has given its seal. Because what do these negotiations really mean? These are not just negotiations paper, as some try to show it in the Croatian public. It's not just about passing the law. Why? Because these negotiations are at the same time the implementation of all these laws in concrete works and concrete activities of state institutions and all of us in the Republic of Croatia. It should be said that the negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the EU are the most difficult negotiations with the EU so far. It should be said that in the case of Croatia, certain chapters were specifically introduced for the first time, such as Chapter 23 most discussed, so the judiciary and fundamental human rights as a special chapter did not exist in negotiations with previous EU candidate countries at all. So we are going through the most difficult kind of negotiations, for the first time criteria have been introduced in the case of the Republic of Croatia in negotiations, and the criteria mean that Croatia must simultaneously comply with all that through this legislation is actually being introduced into the political and social life of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, this government has made a terrible step, and has led Croatia specifically to the threshold, to enter, before entering the EU and ultimately in this government reconstruction proposed by Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, who twice received a mandate from the Croatian Parliament, and which clearly gives the right to and proposes this reconstruction of the government, wants to refresh her team with additional new and professional forces with exceptional quality powers to complete this process and join the EU, to start an even stronger economic recovery. And we certainly will support her in this and these changes that we expect really to happen next year. Unlike HND and SDP, we are not thinking at this time who will be in the top positions, on election lists by election units. We're not thinking right now. We are considering how Croatia strengthens the economic and how to complete these processes that I was just talking about. They obviously think exclusively about this in HNS and do not really care about Croatia's economic future or how to join the EU. There's been a lot of untruth about HDZ. So one of the lies was that we sold the property, so they listed THT, INA, Pliva, hotels. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It was sold by coalition authorities headed by SDP and HNS. They also sold THT, sold INA strategic shares 25% of this government didn't sell shares to the INA MOL at all. They also sold Pliva, gave a strategic package, sold under the grain. Like they did with both INA and THT, without talking about hotels and not talking about which hotels they sold to their friends. But fortunately, we changed the Constitution, so the crime of conversion and privatisation doesn't go out of date, so hopefully it will finally come before those institutions that were supposed to come before and much earlier, but because of the old age, it didn't come. But now there's no such thing as old age. Well, they mentioned here, already counterpart Kunst said that Milanovic should actually thank Sanader for his political career, so I would not repeat it. But it is mentioned that it is inappropriate for the government to be reconstructed one year before the election. Already, counterpart Adlesic said it was absolutely appropriate in other democratic countries, so she mentioned, say, France. But they forgot colleagues from the SDP and the HNS that the one they needed when HSLS also came out of their coalition, when he split up as a party that they were doing the government's construction at the time and that they had fewer stops to seek a mandate and less insistence to ask HDZ for trust, because the SDP came on the wings of HSLS to power in 2000. And that party split up and fell apart at that point, etc. So the party whose wings SDP came to power has fallen apart and they're telling us today that we don't need to be doing a government reconstruction or that it's inappropriate to do a government reconstruction. And that's all the moves that have been seen under quite different circumstances, much worse circumstances than today. So to just remind them the way they functioned is very, very similar to that much worse than today in this case of government reconstruction. Therefore, they should not give us any blankets about this behavior. Nor do we need to share blankets about how some officials acted morally or immorally. This is clear from the examples they have in their own parties. We're not saying that the parties are the ones that are corrupt one way or the other. They're individuals. But then what the Prime Minister said, so you're supporting the fight against corruption. You won't hear a word from the SDP or the HNS. You can't hear that. Because when it comes to Rijeka's markets, then it's political persecution, when it comes to Radimir Cacic, then it's political persecution, when it comes to Ferenczak and other officials about Chicin-Shain who receives both pensions and wages. Imagine if someone in HDZ was doing this, if they were receiving a parliamentary pension and plus that salary, they'd probably be hanging out like Pedro in all the media, right? However, there are clearly different criteria for different ones. I agree that we are the most responsible who are in power, we should be an example to the others, it's absolutely. But those who try to politicise this way really do it to them first and foremost to honor and their cheeks. And since he already mentioned Milanovic, I don't want to skip it, he mentioned congratulations on Christmas. I know he's young, but he forgot that his party is heir to the Croatian Communist Union. At a time when I was 14, 15 years old and we sang at midnight or before midnight Christmas, that same party gave arrests to people who sang Christmas songs. And it wasn't that long ago that was in the late '70s, the '80s. So this same party where words come from today like he understands those who couldn't celebrate and congratulate Christmas until the '90s she banned and put in jail those who sang Christmas songs. So, songs that speak of joy, of glad tidings, of songs that speak of joy, of peace, of the greatest values of the human race, and of the people they have put in prison. Indeed, at the very least, it is hypocritical for such sentences to come from that party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65796	We have a replica, Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65797	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Matušić, you have excellently analyzed everything the government has done in time so far, but perhaps you should further apostrophe that this reconstruction by Mrs. President has added to a new entrepreneurial spirit and I do not mean only the respected Mr. Milosevic but also a few other things. So, with Mrs. Dalic and Mr. Mesic already experienced staff in the state administration and appointment as defence minister of Dr. Bozinovic, an experienced diplomat but a person who played an extremely important role in Croatia's NATO entry has been created and additional incentives are being created for the development of the economy and industry. Croatia has already made a significant step in the military industry, as it enters the NATO Pact, and the appointment of Mr Bozinovic as minister is certainly a new seal. We also often witness that for daily political purposes, we like to sometimes call investors desirable investors, and sometimes in day-to-day political games and tycoons, as to whom they belong, and ultimately, investment itself and investors suffer. This is exactly the position of a person who is highlighted in economic life giving a new incentive for this connection between public and institutional and private because only through the symbiosis of these two characteristics can go quality forward. We who work in local self-government are very often aware that we sometimes lack it, so in this context I think that this kind of reconstruction is the further incentive of entrepreneurship and economic development very, very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65798	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65799	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd just correct the incorrect allegations, I don't know if you've forgotten, but there wasn't a party leader in Verona when we agreed to sell Pliva, but your former president Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65800	Mr. Frano Matušić, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65801	I wasn't talking about that part of my colleague Buric, Article 209 was injured. I made it very clear that the strategic packages are both in T-HT and INA and in Pliva that she sold that coalition power, that's what this is about. And what you're talking about was sold at a public auction that was published in the newspaper every day and it's clear any companies competed with any money. So there's nothing I'm talking about right now, but I'm talking about strategic packages I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65802	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65803	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When a government reconstruction is done, it can always contain two objectives, two wishes or two moves, or only a change in a part of the people, either the minister, either the vice president or the change in a particular policy of relations with a part of the policy, and I want to discuss or consider this change in the context of possible announcements of a change in the policy of this government in the context of the economy, the economy, industry and the rights of workers. With great effort, I came to this session because I really wanted to hear this second part of what would change in terms of the economy, the position of employment and the development of industry. I wrote down four things that the Prime Minister pointed out in the reasons for this reconstruction, and given the content of these reasons, I would still say that this is not a reconstruction but rather a liposuction. The new power, energy and flight are the reasons why Mrs. Kosor introduces four new ministers and three new Deputy Prime Ministers. The way they are prepared here in the Assembly is explained by this change, so the change in the part of the ministers and the appointment of new vice presidents, but also the obviouss of coalition partners obliges me to simply tell you all, but not only to HDZ but to coalition partners I tell people, but this is really your thing, Cosa Lostra. First, Pupovac said that they would accept the government's changes only if it was deep and serious. Without a deep and serious change today, six times after a pay phone, he reiterated that he would support these changes in the government. A colleague of Friscic said it was out of the question that these serious things are being done during the holidays, that this should be left behind for after the New Year's Eve. Nevertheless, he came and likely, even though he did not speak, would give support to this government. So it really is only a question within coalition relations, within a coalition decision, and therefore you must assume that responsibility at the moment when you press the vote. I'm just sorry that the new ones who haven't been to the government so far, if the elections are on a regular basis without any continuance, won't have time and the opportunity to do a full traineeship of 12 but only 11 months. It's their personal decision, and I respect it, and I accept that they accept this challenge and responsibility to prove what they can change more as ministers in 11 months. Given that every word of criticism or warnings is reacted strongly, and in order to reduce both costs and tensions, Mr. President Bebić, I would suggest that we change the Rules of Procedure and that we do these changes in future with a correspondence session. Thank you for the telegrams you send for extraordinary sessions, although I have already repeated this last time that it might be more useful to use e-mail, but if we will not have the tolerance to hear and listen to each other on such topics then suggest changing the Rules of Procedure so let us have correspondence sessions when we will change ministers if the discussion of candidates or the assessment of the Government can be so complicated that the words of personal insult are also used. Comrades in HDZ patiently, patiently, without anxiety. Don't lose your temper and throw it away. ... And what you turn off the microphone is your rudeness. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And now I'm sorry Mrs. Prime Minister is gone, but I'll say so. So, I take her call and support two things. She called for support for the three pillars on which the government lies until the economic recovery election, the conclusion of negotiations to join the European Union and the fight against corruption if I have recorded correctly. So yes, Mrs. Kosor, gentlemen of the Ministers and future ministers. I really support all those who are fighting corruption in Croatia, above all, the police, the state's attorney's office, BUSKOK and the Croatian judiciary because they are bodies that fight and must fight corruption. If only the political and so many repetitions of the political message from Mrs. Kosor will continue to be in the fight against corruption that it will be political reckoning for former Prime Minister Sanader's right. So here I am publicly expressing my support to both the USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office and the police in the fight against corruption. I have a concrete suggestion. From up to now open affairs, those who have already been in court and there are first-degree rulings and those whose value during the investigation is stolen money, state money, the money of the citizens of this country amounts to approximately how much tax is collected and crisis. I propose to the Government to pass and propose a law for the first session in January, that all citizens who have paid crisis taxes in the next 12 months return that money, and that the compensation in the state register be made by selling seized property under the new law as possible to all those who have wrongly acquired it. These days already seized property, and those with regard to the amount of damage only in public enterprises that have been established so far allow the state to collect and return part or most of the money stolen will not be a problem in the state budget, and we will compensate the citizens in this way. Because while they were stealing, harassing, and through corruption, poored the state's cash register, the citizens had to pay a crisis tax. So, I propose that we use the legal mechanisms adopted in this House and that we make a small one for me a very important and significant move of social justice when it comes to the achievement of the burden of the crisis as a whole. And of course I will not vote in favour of the new members of the government and vice presidents simply because I am a representative of the opposition, and the borderline of the ruling and opposition is one of the government's trusts.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65804	Thank you. It's time for MP Damir Cain, who's not here, to lose the right to debate. Then Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65805	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, it is debated in the Croatian Parliament on the reconstruction of the Government, and it is a pity that this opportunity is not used to make certain structural changes in the governments themselves, because first of all, I believe that this was an opportunity to free, through certain changes in the Ministry of Economy, first of all the Minister of the Economy of the Business and the area of work that should be the subject of one other ministry, that the minister in charge of creating and increasing national income would not spend much of his time on distribution just by means of an increase in economic activity. I think this was an opportunity for the Ministry of Economy to be freed through one such change from one part of the business that was objectively belonging to another ministry. It was also an opportunity to highlight the need to strengthen exports through the establishment of a new ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, because we are all aware that the ministry is something, the foreign trade ministry is the very institution that could strongly support the exports that Croatia needs. On this occasion, I would also like to say something about the matter of the new Deputy Prime Minister's new investment authority. So, I absolutely support the establishment of such an institution, but the question remains, in fact, the ingenuity of the new Deputy Prime Minister. Because if he does not have real authority over not a small number of ministries that are necessary in order to actually launch a new investment cycle, encourage larger investments, foreign investments above all in Croatia give God in production, in industry because these are the parts of the economy that can pull others away and ensure economic growth. So the question is, in fact, just how much will the new Deputy Prime Minister in charge of investments have jurisdiction over other ministries and the Ministry of Economy, over the Ministry of Civil Engineering, environmental protection, spatial regulation and, in a certain sense, the Ministry of Justice, because the judiciary is largely braked at the moment, but also that institution that can ensure faster economic development through the resolution of a number of property-legal problems that objectively inhibits the opening of a new investment cycle. When it comes to the Ministry of Finance, it is certain that Croatia needs a new economic model. So the existing economic model was set back in '93. The year when it was a fundamental goal of combating hyperinflation at that time, it gained results in this sense, but today we live in another time, at a time when certain negativeities of this model have also been demonstrated, and they are primarily reflected in the decline of production, the rise in unemployment, the decline in competitiveness of the Croatian economy, and that is why it is necessary to use the models of a new economic policy in the conditions of recession, which includes also the relaxation of restrictive monetary policy, the release of monetary aggregates, and the creation of new instruments of fiscal policy. The objective question is how much will the new finance minister be able to do in a relatively short time, which instruments and tools are available to it and what time is objectively available to it, given that the next year's budget has been defined, and the conditions in which it will operate, it is certain that the basic tasks with which the new minister will meet will be primarily to provide funds to cover the budget deficit. When it comes to the construction ministry, environmental protection, spatial planning, then it is certain that a new minister should be dramatically increased in the number of building permits issued. In these last few years, we have a continuous drop in investment, and this particular ministry actually has a large part of the responsibility for change in that segment. When it comes to fighting corruption, this is where the Prime Minister said someone would say fight corruption to the last breath, and here I am now going to say that I support it absolutely, but let's not hide something else behind it, which is mutually political accounts that lead to a halting of economic activity as a consequence of the fight against corruption. Certain elements of the fight against corruption also have serious negative effects on economic movements in Croatia, and the question is, to what extent should the policy be freed from this business of fighting corruption, to leave it to the institutions involved, above all, to the judiciary, the police, the USKOK, the courts, and to those jobs that need to ensure an increase in economic activity in Croatia. In the end, the Croatian Party is the right party to the opposition, which is why the Government does not support the government primarily because of one policy of introducing a privileged position based on nationality and therefore we are not a party that supports government policy, we are a party to opposition. Because of these elements, I will not support this change in government today either, but regardless of it to all ministers, the entire government, I wish you all a lot of success next year, with a desire to be a year and with no economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65806	Thank you. And as last in the debate, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65807	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm glad they're gentlemen. Don't show me Jerko's watch, I've got a megaphone here. So I'm glad that the gentlemen from the ruling parties here talked a lot today and talked a lot about the government's reconstruction, and it's actually a political shift, which is trying to actually save HDZ policy and extend. If you turn off the microphone again, I'll use the voice aid. Mr. Baby, I'm asking for an intervention. So extend the agony and destruction of Croatia. I listened to Mrs. Prime Minister's statements before this government reconstruction was published by name. I was told to make sure some ministers got tired. It would be humor, not fatigue if we didn't know that the ministers had dozens of advisors, state secretaries, assistants, etc., and intellectual services provided to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65808	Please, someone's breaking up.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65809	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65810	Please don't turn off your colleague. Please speak normally to this one of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65811	If someone in our hospital in Slavonski Brod got tired and was on call.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65812	And don't introduce any innovations here in the Parliament today. Come on, please turn yourself in and finish the debate. Go on. Let the colleague finish the debate according to everything we've discussed so far, without any additional instruments.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65813	Let's let the gentlemen of the HDZ hear. If someone in, of the merchants, our merchants got tired, if someone got tired of working at the hospital, in which case he wouldn't be sent to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, I guess, to rest. Is this here as the Prime Minister has announced that the busy ministers who have been removed or left, reconstructed, will have their seats in the assembly benches? Is this the sanitarium? Is this the collector here where the ministers are gathering who are leaving their post? And not only the ministers, but the former prime minister, etc., or it's a road stop as Buric said. For a little more southern station here in the southern part of Zagreb, according to Remetec, I don't know, but I guess. The government's reconstruction should be a serious issue, but in fact, what changes it and what can change if Minister Shuker says in the report on the budget of the Republic of Croatia that 85 to 90% of the budget has already been allocated. What the new ministers in the 10 remaining percent can do innovatively in improving refreshments, what is announced in the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Cobanković, you know that this government together with HSS is the undertaker of Croatian agriculture and do not wave your head here but you must understand that if the economy is as injured as Croatia's agriculture under your leadership and leadership, then we are free of all government reconstructions. The farmers of Croatia do not know what awaits them, nor have they ever been explained, in the European Union, we have never learned details of what was negotiated in the chapters on agriculture, and if they did, they would rip their hair off their heads. That's what I've been talking about before. Now here comes the new Parliamentarians, then it's the reconstruction of the Parliament as far as I understand it, so it's not just the reconstruction of the government, it's also the reconstruction of the Parliament. If there are four new representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The other day on Christmas Eve, together with my wife, I was sneezing a home table, pine, etc., so she brought me a stone of decorative stones, Mr. Minister, a new economy, a box that costs 12 kuna, and behind it says "Made in china", stones from beaches collected in the Republic of Croatia, is that the Croatian economy, is that how the masters of Croatia, we have no pebbles other than what fell on the road Makarska-Vrgorac from which stones can be made to have them for export and not only for import, that is what you do by importing the bones of our excellent agriculture, pumpkin bones from Ukraine, little and irradiated, there is no connection for Croatia are good and pebbles from China, and a number of other things. Due to customs duties, excise duties, taxes, because of the steak that killed Croatian agriculture and then in vain this reconstruction has nothing to do with it. Who comes to us in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and who is leaving, if someone who bought a racket in companies, in companies, in companies, mostly to tell our Croatian South, not to tell Dalmatia, so the companies that donated to HDZ campaigns went bankrupt. Would you like me to list the names of these companies and the amounts they gave for the HDZ campaigns? Bajic will soon list the HDZ gentlemen. So, all those paroles that you are Madam Prime Minister, you and your predecessor Ivo Sanader about to launch Croatia, about the issue of a guarantee card, about going on to Salzburg, where even Santa Claus is caught and there is no Santa Claus in Croatia, about the fact that the Homeland War is sacred, and all the generals and defenders are delivered, I don't say all the defenders, but a good number in prisons, about that Croatia isn't as strong as Zagreb, but as strong as its edge parts are, about Mr. Pupovac becoming a regionalist and talking about Vukovar, Knin, Clay, and so on, Mr. Pupovac, so you're in the government, your man is the Deputy Prime Minister, who you're talking to, Prime Minister. And you're the government. Unfortunately. Gentlemen, I think that the reconstruction of your Government for the destruction of Croatia should have ended differently and that it has a political cheek then all that is listed here, and what has been heard from these benches today was quite enough reason for this government to simply resign and call new elections for the benefit of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65814	Thank you. We have a correction first is Mr. Zdravko Kelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65815	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. MP said this government, along with the HSS, is the undertaker of Croatian agriculture. Mr. Grubisic's 2011 agricultural item in the budget remained the same even bigger in such a difficult crisis and situation, over 300 million kunas were paid for a natural disaster, and you're saying that we are gravers of Croatian agriculture in Osijek-Baranja County, a halved item for agriculture, which would happen if you came to power in Croatia. There'd be no agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65816	Mr. Tomislav Culjak, also a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65817	President of the Croatian Parliament I wanted to and I answered for the correction of Mr Grubisic's incorrect quote, but I have a problem because he was half of his speech speaking on the fan, so I didn't understand him.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65818	Thank you. Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65819	I thank you, Mr. President, my colleague Kelic has already corrected my allegations in part, so I'm just left with the additional insurance to speak. But it's a good supplemental insurance, but I would like to say that it is incorrect for you to say that this government is primarily Minister Cobankovic's undertaker of Croatian agriculture, absolutely incorrectly, this government has been making every effort since the beginning of the creation of competitive agriculture. In addition to that, since 2003, 170 million liters of milk, 500 modern stops have been involved, not to mention olive growing and winemaking. And these days, we have witnessed dear colleagues paying for the damages of the natural disaster against which you too were colleagues on the left, for the elemental disaster in agriculture to be paid. Agriculture is one responsible area where it has been worked responsibly and continuously and not in a way to carry canisters with oil and to wear sausages to protesting checkpoints. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65820	We have one injury from the Businessmen, Mr Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65821	According to Article 209 of Mr Milinkovic, you're saying what you don't know. ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65822	What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65823	Mr. Baby, give your farmers a culture so they don't turn off my microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65824	You're the one who called in a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65825	Yeah, right, but I can't talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65826	You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65827	According to Article 209, therefore, Mr Milinkovic presents facts and data that I have not presented. ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65828	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the debated agenda. Please engage to see if we have a quorum to decide. 120 means we have a quorum and we can make decisions. I stress that the Assembly in accordance with Article 226. The businessmen of the decision to give confidence to the members of the government make most of the votes of all MPs, so at least 77, can do more. We move on to the proposal to show confidence in Peter Cobankovic, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, and to act as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia I therefore give the decision to show confidence that I have listed Mr Peter Cobanković. Please, let's get involved and vote. I find that the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister has been given confidence 81 votes for, 1 abstention and 51 against. ... Congratulations. [[Applause.]] Proposal to show confidence to Gordan Jandrokovic, Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and to act as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. So I am voting this decision on showing confidence for the Deputy Prime Minister as well. Here, let's get involved and vote. The result? Mr. Jandrokovic received the trust of the Croatian Parliament, 81 votes for, 1 abstention and 55 against. 3. A proposal to show confidence to Domagog Milosevic for acting as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. So I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal of confidence was accepted by the parliament by a majority of 81 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 55 against. Congratulations. ... 4. Proposed to show confidence to Master Martini Dalic for acting as finance minister. [[Applause.]] I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The parliament expressed confidence to Ms. Finance Minister Martini Dalic with 81 votes to, 1 abstention and 57 against. ... We move on to the proposal to show confidence to Dr Davor Bozinovic for acting as defence minister. [[Applause.]] I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 80 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 56 against. Congratulations. ... A proposal to show confidence to Jasen Mesic for acting as culture minister. [[Applause.]] Please make a statement. Let's get involved and vote on this proposal. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 81 votes for, 1 abstention and 51 against. Congratulations. .../Applause. Proposal to show confidence to Mr Branko Bačić for the post of Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. I'm asking you to vote. Let's get involved and vote. Score. The proposal was accepted by most votes, 82 votes in favour, no abstentions and 56 against. Congratulations. [[Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, in accordance with Article 108. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 7. The law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be sworn in by the new ministers. After reading the text of the oath, I will call upon a new member of the government who will swear by standing up and saying the word: I swear. The text of the oath reads: I swear that I will be consciously and honorably acting as a member of the Government, respecting the Constitution, laws and legal order, and will advocate any progress made by the Republic of Croatia. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65829	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65830	Thank you. Congratulations. Minister of Finance, Ms. Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65831	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65832	Thank you. Congratulations. Defence Minister, Dr. Davor Bozinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65833	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65834	Thank you. Congratulations. Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65835	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65836	Congratulations. Minister of Culture Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65837	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65838	Thank you. Congratulations to all means new vice-presidents, three, governments as well as new ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I wish them much success in their work. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to file a report. Here you go, Mr. Sesvetchan.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65840	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's just a notice that materials and these reports are being copied, so they're going to be split very quickly into benches, and I'm going to read it. We have the first Report on the suspension of the term of office of Deputy Representative of the Board of Directors God Bishop and the termination of the conduct of the parliamentary post of deputy representative Angelko Mihalić. So, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 40th session held on 29 December 2010, the written request of the MPs, God of the Bishop, on the termination of the term of office of the representative and the continuation of the conduct of the parliamentary office of 29 November 2010, which he informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 29 November 2010, a decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on his discharge from the office of the Minister of Culture came into effect. I'm sorry, that seems to be a mistake in, so December 29th, so today, a solution to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on its discharge from the duty of the Minister of Culture has ceased his duties which is incompatible with the conduct of his duties. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate to Mr Boza Biskopic, elected on the Croatian Democratic Union list in the 3rd election unit, began on 11 January 2008 because of the incompatibility of the minister's duties as set out in Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and that on the same day, his deputy Angelko Mihalic began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. How Mr Bozo Biskupić is in line with Article 13(1). The Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit of the Commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, so that the rest of the parliamentary term of office of God Bishop ceased on the eighth day of the application, and the same day ended the conduct of his deputy, Angelko Mihalić, on the same day. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the suspension of the term of office of MPs and the termination of the term of office of deputy MPs. On 6 January 2011, the term of office of Representative Bozo Biskupić ceases. Deputy Representative Angelko Mihalic on 6 January 2011 ceases to act as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65841	I'm opening a debate. I am concluding the debate and giving this proposal to the Mandate-Immunity Commission for the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal by the Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by the majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65842	So, the next report on the suspension of the term of office of MP Marina Matulović Dropulić and the termination of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Bozica Šolić. So, the Mandate-Immunity Commission at the meeting held today on December 29th 2010 discussed the written request of MP Marin Matulović Dropulić on the suspension of the term of office and the continuation of the conduct of the parliamentary office of 29 December 2010 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 29 December the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on its discharge from the duty of the Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction had ceased her duties that were incompatible with the conduct of the agent's duties. The commission found that the resignation of Ms. Marini Matulović's parliamentary mandate, elected on the Croatian Democratic Union's 7th election unit, began on 11 January 2008. For reasons of incompatibility of the minister's duties referred to in Article 9 Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and that on the same day, her deputy, Bozica Šolić, began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. How Ms Marina Matulović Dropulić is in line with Article 13(1). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit of the Commission has established that the conditions have been laid down by law, so that the rest of the parliamentary term of Marin Matulović Dropulić ceases on the eighth day of the application, and the same day ceases the conduct of her deputy, Bozica Šolić, on the same day. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the decision to suspend the term of office of the representative and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy. On 6 January 2011, the term of office of representative Marin Matulović Dropulić, deputy representative Bozica Šolić, ceases to act on 6 January 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65843	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving this proposal to the Mandate-Immunity Commission for the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by the majority of the 79 vote for, one abstention, and nothing against. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65844	Next report on the suspension of the term of office of representative Ivan Šuker and the termination of the post of deputy representative Ivanka Roksandić. At the 40th session held on 29 December 2010, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Ivan Shuker on the suspension of the term of office and the continuation of the conduct of the parliamentary office of 29 December 2010, which informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 29 December 2010, a decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on his discharge from the office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and of the Minister of Finance ceased his duties which was incompatible with the conduct of the agent's duties. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary term of Mr Ivan Shuker, elected on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union in the 6th Election Unit, began on 11 January 2008, due to the incompatibility of the duties of the minister as set out in Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and that on the same day, his deputy Ivanka Roksandić began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. As Mr. Ivan Shuker is in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the commission found that the conditions were met by law, so the rest of Ivan Šuker's representative's term of office ended on the eighth day of the application, and the same day ended the conduct of his deputy deputy, Ivanka Roksandić. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament referred to in Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the decision to suspend the term of office of MPs and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy representative's office. On 6 January 2011, the term of office of MP Ivan Šuker, deputy representative Ivanka Roksandić, ceases on 6 January 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65845	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose the Mandate-Immunity Commission to vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Did we vote? The result? This proposal was adopted by a majority of 78 votes in favour, or 78 votes in unanimity, for nothing abstention or against. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65846	The next report on the suspension of MP Branko Vukelic's term of office and the termination of his post as deputy representative, Nedeljko Strikic. At the 40th session held on 29 December 2010, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Branko Vukelic on the termination of the term of office of representative, and the continuation of the acting office of representative from 29 December 2010, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that on 29 December 2010, a resolution of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on his discharge from the duty of defence minister was taken into account, thus suspending his duties which was incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties. The commission found that the resignation of Mr Branko Vukelic's parliamentary mandate, elected on the Croatian Democratic Union list in the 7th election unit, began on 11 January 2008, due to the incompatibility of the minister's duties as set out in Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and that on the same day his deputy Nedjeljko Strikic began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. As Mr Branko Vukelić is, in accordance with Article 13(1). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit, the commission found that the conditions were met by law, so that the rest of the parliamentary mandate of Branko Vukelic ceased on the eighth day of the application, and the same day ended the conduct of his deputy, Nedek Strikic, on the same day. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the suspension of the term of office of MPs and the termination of the term of office of deputy MPs. On 6 January 2011, the term of office of MP Branko Vukelic, deputy representative Nedjeljko Strikic, ceases on 6 January 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65847	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on this proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? This proposal was adopted unanimously with 79 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65848	A report on the start of the stay of MP Branko Bačić's term of office and the start of the conduct of deputy representative Borislav Matkovic. At the 40th session held on 29 December 2010, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Branko Bačić, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that he had put his representative mandate to rest on the date of 29 December 2010, due to the start of acting as Minister of State in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. As Mr Branko Bacic was elected representative in the 6th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union in the 10th Election Unit, the Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with Article 12(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has decreed that Borislav Matkovic, as deputy representative in that election unit, begins to act as representative instead of representative Branko Bačić. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament to begin the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Branko Bačić, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy, Borislav Matkovic. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission after the debate was held, on the basis of Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 29 December 2010, it shall begin the rest of MP Branko Bačić's term of office in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will begin acting by Deputy Representative Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65849	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal was adopted unanimously with 70 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65850	And the latest report on the termination of the deputy deputy representative, Stjepan Kundić, and the start of the deputy deputy representative Ivanka Roksandić. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 40th session held on 29 December 2010 the resignation of MP Stjepan Kundić of 29 December 2010 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament that, in accordance with Article 10 of the Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, he resigned from his office as representatives in the Croatian Parliament on 6 January 2011. The commission found that on 20 February 2008, Mr Stjepan Kundić began acting as deputy deputies at 6. The constituency as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list, instead of representatives Drazen Bosnjakovic. Stjepan Kundic's resignation left him with his parliamentary mandate and made the conditions for the other deputy deputies to start acting as a representative. The Croatian Democratic Community shall comply with the provisions of Article 12(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament as deputy representative is laid down by Ivanka Roksandić. The commission found that the termination of Mr Stjepan Kundić's parliamentary mandate and of the Croatian Democratic Community's notification of a deputy representative were met with the law laying down the conditions for the start of the deputy deputy representative Ivanka Roksandic's term of office. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a decision on the termination of the parliamentary mandate of the deputy representative and the start of the deputy deputy MP's term of office. On 6 January 2011, Mr. Stjepan Kundic, deputy representative Ivanka Roksandic, will begin acting on 6 January 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65851	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please let's get involved and vote. The result is this, this decision was reached unanimously with 79 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I now call upon the new deputies to swear their oaths. First, I will read the text of the oath and afterwards call upon an advocate who swears by standing up and saying the word and swearing. The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65852	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65853	Thank you. Congratulations. Ms. Representative Marina Matulović-Dropulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65854	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65855	Thank you. Congratulations. Mr. Representative Bozo Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65856	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65857	Thank you. Mr. Representative Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65858	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-12-29-0.u65859	Thank you. Congratulations to MPs and MPs and I wish a lot of success in the conduct of the honorable and responsible duties of MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I conclude the 21st extraordinary session, wish you happy holidays and the extension of these holidays and those that come both happy and successful in 2011. Thank you.
