ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51662	Good morning, everyone. Nice and pleasant and successful day. Today we will be working until 12.30 votes will not be held. And we're going to try to do the 7th, 8, the 9th and the 10th points, and we're going to see maybe more. God knows, we'll see what happens. Therefore, as announced, we are starting with point 7 and that is - The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Code, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E.: number 528 The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51663	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. So a few words about the amendment and supplementation of the Customs Act, above all that changes, are the most significant amendments. In particular, general legal provisions on the application of security measures for goods imported into or exported from the customs territory should be introduced. In this proposal for a law, new principled legal provisions are laid down to impose the so-called obligation. the security summary declaration prior to the introduction of goods into the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as the obligation to submit such a declaration for goods leaving the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia, with the so-called so-called security-restriction declaration in particular. regular customs declarations. Such safety-restricted declarations are also required to be submitted with the use of the electronic data exchange system. What made these changes happen in the European Union, i.e. in Croatian customs legislation? It is often stressed that the role of customs has evolved over time from its initial task of collecting income to protecting society and its security. In addition to the traditional task of collecting income, customs duties also play an increasingly significant role in protecting society from the flow of prohibited or controlled goods which is in a position to threaten the health, safety and some other factors and factors of the population of a customs area. Since 2001 and known developments in the US, customs administrations have taken on a new role in security that has led to the ongoing fight against terrorism and other serious international crime. It is precisely in this context that the proposed amendments and novels of the Customs Code should be observed. Another amendment or amendment to this proposal to fully comply with the normative statement of the provision of Article 225(4). A customs code governing circumstances that do not run the notice period for notifying debtors of debt. So, just one nomotechnical alignment with the statement, something that we received in Chapter 33 as a comment and a recommendation from the European Commission. I only have to say here at the end as to the chapter of customs, Chapter 29, you know very well that in October of last year, all these amendments and additions are temporarily closed and, specifically, what you know very well, regardless of the temporary closure of the chapter, Croatia has assumed the obligation to continue to comply with its legislation with European legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51664	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget is a respected representative of Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 51st session, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, 14 April 2010 as a parent body. Since it is only a matter of further harmonisation of the Customs Code with the legal property of the European Union in the light of the fact that the submission of the security summary declaration before the introduction into the customs territory is prescribed and that only the circumstances under which the three-year period for the notification of the debtors of the debt does not run, the parent committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament that this law be adopted on amendments and amendments to the Customs Code without discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51666	Thank you. The other boards didn't see anyone come forward. It's not. I'm opening a debate and we're going to have a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51667	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act another law that we are harmonising with the acquis of the European Union. I would like to remind you that the Customs Code as the basic regulation of the Croatian Customs Legal System over the last period of harmonisation has been followed to the greatest extent by the amendments made to the EU Customs Code and, in that sense, in the amendments and additions to the Customs Code, have been concluded with amendments and additions from 2008 to the total commitment made from the negotiating position for Chapter 29. – Customs union relative to harmonisation... Customs law. As we've heard from the secretary of state, it's a chapter temporarily and closed. Amendments to the 2009 Customs Act in accordance with the European Commission's request under the negotiations of Chapter 33. – Financial and budgetary provisions are further harmonised and the provisions of the Customs Law on the subsequent recording of customs debt. During the past period of harmonisation, customs law has followed, to the greatest extent, the amendments made to the customs code of the European Union on which it has been established. The most recent amendments to the Customs Code were made by the adoption of Regulation No 648/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 April 2005 amending the 2005 Community Customs Code Regulation. Those amendments to the Customs Code are primarily directed at the establishment of security elements. On the one hand, to ensure trade from the threat of global terrorism, and on the other hand to enable customs services in cooperation with the economy to make trade as much easier as possible. Efforts to reconcile around two restrictive objectives, the first is to increase security with an emphasis on the new role of customs services in ensuring trade through the creation of mechanisms to strengthen customs capacity in detecting high risk consignors and dealing with them, as well as to increase the efficiency of the management of goods and other objectives, aimed at speeding up and simplifying the implementation of customs procedures. They'd say don't go with each other, but obviously that's possible. As part of the overall activities of the customs administrations in full adaptation of the Croatian customs system to the customs system of the European Union, as well as those resulting from the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, further harmonisation of the provisions of the Customs Code, as well as the accompanying implementing rules with the customs regulations of the European Union with the fundamental aim of implementing certain European customs law institutes which are not yet incorporated into the Croatian customs system, is necessary, and this applies to the European Customs Law institutes governing the application of so-called ‘European Customs Law’. security measures, and so is the subject of these legal changes. This is a security measure for goods imported into or exported from the customs territory. In accordance with the obligations of further harmonisation in Chapter 29. - Customs union by taking over the Croatian customs legislation, so-called the security provisions of European customs regulations, the proposed amendments and additions to the Customs Code to the Croatian Customs and Legal System shall be laid down in general legal provisions on the application of security measures for goods imported or exported from the customs territory. Article 1 of these amendments to the law prescribes the obligation to submit a safety summary declaration prior to the introduction into the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia using the electronic data exchange system. Those provisions also provide for the provision of a provision of a provision for persons subject to a security summary declaration, as well as circumstances in which no special safety summary declaration for goods for which a customs declaration containing at least the information prescribed for the safety summary declaration has been previously submitted. Subject provisions lay down the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prescribe the conditions under which the provisions on the submission of a security summary declaration, the conditions under which exceptions or derogations from the obligation to submit a safety summary declaration, the time limits for submission, and the form and content of the safety summary declaration may be applied. The second basic issue to be governed by this law is a normative provision of circumstances that do not run the three-year deadline for notifying debtors of debt. In accordance with the compliance obligations adopted under the negotiations in Chapter 33 of the Financial and Budgetary Provisions, the regulatory statement of the provision of Article 225(4) shall be fully aligned. A customs code governing circumstances that do not run a three-year period for notifying debtors of debt. In order to implement the proposed law, it is not necessary to allocate specific resources to the burden of the state budget, and the proposed legislative amendments will also have no impact on the increase in the expenditure of the customs service. Due to all this, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51668	Thank you. It's the turn of the HNS club, the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51669	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Party club, the Liberal Democrats, will support the proposal. In fact, it is quite understandable that the Customs Law in the Republic of Croatia is constantly in line with similar rules governing the European Union in time. Of course, it was expected that the provisions that define the exchange of data that have been classified for the past few years and that security data will also come sooner or later and on the agenda with us and will be included in local legislation. However, what we would like to ask here is the introduction of Article 186a, which states: a customs declaration is submitted for goods leaving the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia, and in the event that, in accordance with customs regulations, no application is made for the submission of a customs declaration, a security summary declaration shall be submitted. Our question is whether this applies to goods belonging to the order of personal items for which, for example, by two or three years ago, a customs declaration was issued when leaving the Republic of Croatia so that it could be displayed on return to the Republic of Croatia, especially for portable computers and for more valuable electronic apparatus such as photocams, and in recent times, Iphone is one of such and so on several types of more expensive mobile devices, which certainly cross that amount by a certain customs law which defines the limit of value of goods imported or exported from the Republic of Croatia. The practice shows that it is also my personal experience, that for two years customs officials have not requested to print a customs declaration with the corresponding registration number of a particular device and do not ask for that document when you return to the country, because almost every other or almost so probably every other passenger in international air traffic carries with him some of such goods, and each fifth carries with him and a portable computer. It's no luxury, it's not a thing to go abroad anymore because it's not worth going abroad, so suspecting someone in advance that they'll bring goods of that kind from abroad and that actually smuggling would be actually pretentious. On the other hand, we have cases where customs officers harass people on their way back to the country, actually asking them for a customs declaration for goods they carry with them, and above all it's a portable computer and then you have to humiliate yourself there at the customs crossing, open your files and show how old your laptop really is. So, we are interested in whether this regulation will make the lives of people travelling abroad complicated and returning from it or actually admit something that is the liquid of modern civilization, which is that the transfer account, iPods, Itedi, is in the same way as the personal small cameras actually fall into personal matters for which customs declarations are not required because the customs declaration includes, among other things, the preservation of accounts, also the printing of certain identification numbers issued by the manufacturer and all other things. So in this regard, we ask for clarification, whether it will give a signal to customs officials to harass any other average citizen crossing the country, especially in international air traffic. And another issue of curiosity is that the government has not yet resolved the director of the customs administration after all the affairs that have occurred and all the circuses that the customs officials have rightly indicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51670	Thank you. This last part is not a topic of discussion and please stick to the topic. Let's move forward with the debate, on behalf of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51671	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Act amending and supplementing the Customs Code is proposed with a view to harmonising the customs law with the acquis of the European Union. It is noteworthy that the Customs Act is almost once a year changed or complemented, which is explained by the fact that European customs law is also in the permanent process of permanent changes, conditioned above all... to ensure the conditions for speeding up and simplifying customs procedures, while ensuring conditions for more complete and efficient control and regular customs traffic, including the provision of conditions for the more complete and efficient cooperation of the customs services of the Member States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the provisions of Croatian customs legislation, the European Union shall inform further harmonisation of the provisions of the Croatian customs legislation with the legal property of the European Union in Chapter 29. the security provisions of the European customs regulations of the proposed amendments and additions of customs legislation to the Croatian customs-legal system shall be laid down in general legal provisions on the application of security measures for goods imported or exported from the customs territory. In addition, in accordance with the obligations, the harmonisations adopted under the negotiations under Chapter 33 of the Financial and Budgetary Provisions shall be fully aligned with the normative statement of the provision of Article 225(4) of the Customs Code governing circumstances in which the three-year period for the notification of debtors in debt does not run. These are the basic issues which are regulated by the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws. In this respect, the first article establishes new provisions which prescribe the obligation to submit a safety summary declaration prior to the introduction into the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia, using the electronic data exchange system. Those provisions shall provide for a provision of persons who are obliged to submit a security summary declaration, as well as circumstances in which a special security summary declaration for goods for which a customs declaration containing at least the information prescribed for the safety summary declaration has been previously submitted. Subject provisions lay down the authorisation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prescribe the conditions under which the provisions on the submission of a security summary declaration, the conditions under which exceptions or derogations from the obligation to submit a safety summary declaration, the time limits for the submission of a security summary declaration, as well as the format and content of the safety summary declaration may be applied. Article 6 is also proposed to prescribe amendments to the content of the provision of Article 225(4) in such a way as to replace the previous normative provision of the extension of the three-year period of notification of the debtor of the debt in the event of the application for the duration of the appeal procedure with the provision of that period, that period shall not expire during the period of the appeal procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51672	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is President Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And then she's the esteemed representative of the Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51673	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. The customs system in Croatia was based on several basic rules, which are primarily the Customs Act, the Customs Tariff Act and the Customs Service Act of which is of course the most significant Customs Act. It is as in other countries of Europe, and it is a broader, complex and demanding system, which does not only involve the application of customs regulations but also numerous others of which I will mention only some, starting with those trade, foreign exchange and tax, through those on general administrative and criminal and criminal proceedings or those on the protection of life and the health of people, the protection of plants and animals, and the protection of the environment, to international regulations and trade contracts. Therefore, in order to fully understand the customs system of a country, it is necessary, apart from customs regulations, to know a large part of its extensive legislative system. It is also important to say that the customs system is proof of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of each regulated state, and therefore its functioning is of exceptional importance for the safety of each society. This importance stems from the purpose of the existence and arrangement of the customs system, as well as the fiscal and protective character of customs itself, as the oldest instrument of foreign trade policy. Therefore, the purpose and role of the customs system, if observed from a national point of view, other than ensuring consistent application of customs regulations and legal treatment in the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia, is to reduce the risk, i.e. the elimination of any adverse events which may arise by the entry, amount, transport, transfer or use of foreign goods in the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia, but also by the procedures of certain foreign persons or groups. We can therefore conclude from the previous that the customs system is extremely significant, and that its role is multiple, and it is seen primarily in the protection of the financial interests of the Republic of Croatia that stem from the very character of customs as a instrument of fiscal and foreign trade policy, in the protection of security in general, because it is aimed at removing possible unwanted events that could pose a threat to security, but also at protecting the health and life of people, and in the fight against international crime and global terrorism. That is why the Contemporary Customs Service on the one hand is heading towards the simplification and acceleration of the flow of goods and people in international trade and the reduction of customs procedures themselves, and on the other, the improvement of the security and security aspects of customs systems. This implies the frequency of amendments and additions to customs legislation. This is exactly how today’s proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Customs Law lies before us. The reform of the customs legislation of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the process of harmonisation of the customs law and its implementing rules with EU legislation and the Implementing Regulation of the Customs Code, began in 1999. A year. The customs law of the Republic of Croatia and the Implementing Regulation have been amended over several years in order to build a new and modern customs system in line with the applicable provisions of the EU customs rules and practices. The proposed law that we are discussing today continues, in fact, further harmonisation of the Croatian customs system with the EU acquis in Chapter 29. - Customs Union. That's how new provisions are established, and those are art. 49a to 49c which are subject to the obligation to submit a safety summary declaration prior to the introduction into the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia using the electronic data exchange system. These provisions also provide for the provision of a provision for persons who are obliged to submit a security summary declaration as well as for circumstances in which a special summary declaration is not submitted. This legislative proposal therefore introduces security measures for goods imported or exported from the customs territory. In addition, in accordance with the obligations of Chapter 33, the normative statement governing the circumstances in which the three-year period of notification of the debtor of the debt does not run, meaning that the three-year deadline for notifying the debtor of the debt in the event of an appeal does not run during the appeal procedure. Finally, I would like to stress once again that, in fact, the proposed law continues to bring Croatia's customs system into line with legislation, i.e. the EU acquis, and, in accordance with all of this, I am giving full support to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51674	Thank you. That concludes the debate. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51675	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here was a direct question, so let me answer it. So, application Art. 186a, therefore, refers naturally to goods, i.e. external trade and certainly does not enter the sphere of the so-called so-called area. passenger traffic. So it's a very simple answer to the question of a respected representative. But let me say, in the final word, that is, I would categorically say no to what was said in that part of the debate, and I will quote that term as "maltrating citizens on their way in or out of the border". I think, above all, in order to protect the integrity and fair and committed work of customs officers who enforce the laws of the Republic of Croatia, I think we can all agree that it is absolutely necessary to do such things because it would be the same story for police officers who do their job within the Republic of Croatia. So customs officers work in accordance with the regulations. Our regulations, our laws, are not only in line with European directives, but in a particular case of passenger traffic, so on transfer or entry of so-called. goods of high value such as already mentioned laptops, I-phones, etc., we are also fully in line with international conventions. So, nothing new, and in any case, I think we'll all agree that it's actually going to our honor and ours, first of all, customs officers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51676	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51677	We move to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act, was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 528. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 105 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51678	Moving to point 8. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 526 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 161 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. A few short notes in the introductory word. In June 2007, the Croatian Parliament passed a Biocidal Law that was fully in line with EU directives at that time. In the course of the further process of this law, therefore, sublegal acts as a list of biocidal substances have been adopted. You have to say, maybe it's a clarification, what it's really about. These are, therefore, biocidal products containing active substances that destroy harmful organisms by chemical and biological means. As potentially dangerous substances, stricter control is needed in accordance with our legislation as well as EU directives on such matters. In our further accession process, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself every time certain amendments, amendments or additions are made to EU directives, amendments or amendments within a certain period of time, are included in national legislation. Thus, after the adoption of the law in 2007, in the amendment of the directive, you already had once amended and complemented this law, where the law was fully harmonised again, in order to adopt a new Law on Trade in 2008 and the same year in September and the Law on Sanitary Inspection. These 2 laws have introduced certain amendments where, in addition to the importers for biocidal products, natural and legal persons for imports of goods and services and in the Sanitary Inspection Act, there has been a reconstruction of the sanitary inspection in the Republic of Croatia, which also has a direct impact on the implementation of the Biocidal Law. However, on the basis of the changes in the 2009 Directive, where the EU has extended the deadlines for all biocidal products to 14 May 2014 and, accordingly, gave the national legislation new deadlines for adapting these new provisions to you today, we are putting forward a proposal for amending and supplementing the law to bring domestic legislation into line, meaning that the Law on Trade and the Law on Sanitary Inspection and the new EU Directive, that is no. 107th, 2009. And I can say that in the course of the debate on the Committees, the Legislative Committee has proposed an amendment which here and in the opening statement already states that we will accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51680	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? First Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on Health and Social Care, Commissioner Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. At the 40th session of the Committee held on 14 April 2010, the Health and Social Care Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a Act of 18 March 2010. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with Rule 76a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the basic reasons for proposing amendments to the law. As it pointed out, certain amendments are necessary in order to bring the applicable Biocidal Products Act in line with the Law on Trade of the National No. 87/2008. which was brought by the Croatian Parliament in July 2008 in the section relating to the concept of importers. the extension of this concept to natural persons who are responsible for carrying out the registered activity of importing goods and services into the Republic of Croatia. It is also necessary to comply with the provisions of the applicable law with the new organisation of the sanitary inspection at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, as amended by the Law on Sanitary Inspection of the National Journal of 113/2008. which entered into force on 1 January 2009. The proposed amendments and additions pointed out in the debate which followed the need and in order to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union from 16 September 2009 on the marketing of biocidal products with regard to the extension of certain deadlines. This Directive allows for further application of the transitional national procedure laid down in Article 65 of the applicable Biocidal Products Act until the completion of the process of testing the active substances in biocidal products at European Union level by 14 May 2014. After the discussion, the committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51682	Thank you. And the name of the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Honorable Representative and Chairman of the Committee, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. At its 35th session held on 15 April 2010, the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 18 March 2010. The procedure for the adoption of this law shall apply in accordance with Article 161 of the Emergency Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act with the Final Proposal of the Law as an interested working body. In the opening statement of the legislative proposal, Mr. Sami Samardzic, assistant director of the Department of Sanitary Control of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, gave a brief review of the situation and described the newspaper that brings the proposed amendments and additions to the Biocidal Products Act. In particular, he pointed out the harmonisation of the provisions of the law with national legislation, in particular the Law on Sanitary Inspection and the alignment with the new Directive of the European Union. The debate raised the question whether amendments to the concept of the importer and the extension to natural persons also relate to farmers or to agricultural family economies. It is answered that the above applies only to craftsmen who use biocidal products in their activities. The transitional periods provided for in the amendments to the laws relating to the implementation, testing and registration of active substances and the prescribed procedure should there be doubts as to the recognition of the results of European testing laboratories. The question referred to in paragraph 1 was raised on the basis of an amendment to Article 44 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013. The Biocidal Products Act, as well as there, insisted on accreditation of testing laboratories according to ISO 17 thousand 25, as was the case with the registration of laboratories authorised to measure the parameters of the environment, as would be the case in accordance with Article 73. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. This would raise the credibility of the results of the testing at the level of those recognised in the world. It was answered that the above was not done because too few laboratories were accredited in the Republic of Croatia. Since no amendments to Article 44 have been proposed and it is not possible to submit an amendment to that effect, the need to do so in the manner in which the accreditation of measuring and moderated laboratories for measuring the parameters of the environment, noise, emissions and emissions of pollutants into the air has been carried out, with a transitional period of 2 to 5 years. It is proposed to the competent ministry to include in the amendments and amendments to the laws mentioned in the obligation of accreditation of the testing laboratories concerned or to make reference to the first subsequent amendment of the Biocidal Products Act. After the debate was held, the Committee on Environmental Protection decided unanimously with 10 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51684	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51685	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will begin by saying that members and members of the HNS Club fully agree with the opening presentation of the Secretary of State. We have nothing to add or subtract here, but let us repeat again what is most important in this amendment and supplement proposal, and this is about Directive 2009/107 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending and supplementing Directive 98 of 1998 which, among other things, speaks of the placing on the market of biocidal products as regards the extension of certain deadlines. The provisions of the Directive in question further state that a national procedure will be applied during the transitional period during which the review procedure for biocidal products at European Union level will be completed. The transposition of that Directive into national legislation allows for the further application of the transitional national procedure laid down in Article 65 of the applicable Biocidal Products Act until the completion of the process of testing the active substances in biocidal products at European Union level by 14 May 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51686	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51687	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us a law that will bring our legal system in line with the European Union system, and with the laws that have been passed since the entry into force of the 2007 Biocidal Products Act, so the Law on Trade, the Law on Sanitary Inspection and the fact that this adoption of this law will improve our legal system. The chemical industry is by force and product size of the 4th power of the European economy because it produces more than 100,000 different chemicals in quantities of up to 400 million tonnes per year, while 1250 billion tonnes of different chemicals are produced annually in the world. Unfortunately, the vast majority of these chemicals are substances with which humanity has had a very severe accident, and later it turns out that our knowledge of these chemicals and their effects on the living world has been very lacking, and surveillance has been extremely poor until at least the 1970s. Some of the most recent examples are asbestos, benzene, vinyl chloride, monomer, DDT, dioxins, furans, etc., and with some of these preparations and chemicals and the Republic of Croatia had or still has problems. With severe chronic damages such as carcinomas, reproductive harmful effects are the first thing today, and it is interesting that the annual cost of treatment for allergies in Europe exceeds 20 billion euros, and toxicological research by 30 thousand dangerous substances unfortunately do not exceed 200m euros. On the other hand, over the past 20 years, only 2700 new substances have been registered in Europe because the European system has been particularly fond of the use of old substances, and unfortunately it has not been possible to ask for detailed toxicological tests because it was not clear who would pay them. Most of these substances were out of patent protection and produced by whoever wanted them so it was hard to find who would pay for the research. And with new substances it is clear that the research pays the producer or importer which was actually relative to the old substances was quite an injustice. It is the European Commission's desire to gradually replace very dangerous substances with less dangerous, new substances. As a result, she had no great chance of success, e.g. In the case of dangerous and banned asbestos, new, less dangerous substances could be expected as a substitute, but this was not possible in most of the 100,000 chemicals because their dangerous properties were unknown or not well-checked. In addition, the burden of checking for old substances fell on the community which, on the basis of suspicion, paid for a set of research on chronic effects and therefore decided on the inclusion of certain substances in banned chemicals or chemicals that are limited to use. Fortunately, in recent years last millennium, the approach in the field of plant protection means has changed, such as the basic guideline of 1991 and the 1998 biocidal guidelines, and the European Commission has made a strategically important decision to view the banned anything that is not explicitly permitted, which is in fact a revolutionary change in the previous way of thinking. The Community was relieved, and all the burden was imposed on producers and those who wanted to place on the market plant protection products or biocidal products had to prove, under new provisions, that such a substance cannot be used in the European Union by its physical, chemical and toxicological properties, which means that only those substances that are thoroughly tested according to its physical, chemical and toxicological properties can be placed on the market and used in the European Union area. It is no wonder, therefore, that in the Law on Biocidal Products in Article 44 of the Law of 2007, we are talking about the Croatian law, detailedly regulates the way in which studies must be conducted which are the basis for the evaluation of biocidal products. Of course, this is in line not only with the requirements of European guidelines but also with the doctrine of public health. Let us remember that the doctrine of public health is, in fact, the science and practice of preventive medicine in preventing the occurrence of any disease or the negative effects of some noxies in the environment. Public Health, this perhaps most spectacular Croatian export product of all time, which has been compressed in the People's Proverbs "better to prevent than to cure" which, in time, academic Andrija Stampar has helped to target at the world level as co-founder of the world health organization today in Croatia and far away does not have that role to play. However, regarding the topic in question, especially these dangerous substances of biocidal products, toxicology, it should be recalled that in the Republic of Croatia, the Institute for Medical Research and Medicine of Work, which is also the foundation of Andrija Stampar, is behind Ruđer Boskovic's Institute, both by the number of employees and by the scientific production of the second most important institute in the Republic of Croatia. There is, of course, the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, there is the Croatian Toxicology Society, as all of them, all as institutions or associations, groups of experts and scientists who are highly qualified, educated, who possess all the knowledge and skills of the topic in question, and it is therefore strange that the Ministry did not provide that test laboratories dealing with the investigation of the dangers of biocidal products should be accredited as it did in accordance with Article 73. Stabilisation and Association Agreements as an instrument of accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership of the European Union. This article requires that Croatia must have an effective quality infrastructure, i.e. normisation, accreditation, measurement, conformity testing, which is, in fact, Croatia has, after the examination, and after regular annual reports of the European Commission, the section traditionally receives the best grades as one of the most well-run and prepared segments of the Republic of Croatia in pre-accession negotiations. The Ministry of Health is in some other cases, remember asbestos, noise, radiation protection, and the Ministry of Agriculture, for example. In its legislative decisions, genetically modified food has already conditioned that test laboratories dealing with conformity testing, i.e. by testing the health and environmental hazards of certain products and preparations must be accredited in order to demonstrate their competence. In addition, it is also a trend in the European Union to increase accreditation as a legal obligation. In Croatia there is also a good part of the chemical industry that has managed to survive the brutal process of conversion and privatisation, which is forced to seek expensive services of accredited laboratories outside the Republic of Croatia if it wants to export its products. It would be far simpler for them if it existed in the Republic of Croatia, if such laboratories existed in the Republic of Croatia. After all, almost all public health institutions, either at the republican or county level, are generally accredited by several accreditation schemes, and by standard 17 thousand 25 for test laboratories, and by standard 15,189 for medical and biomedical laboratories. Therefore, since they already have accreditation, extending the area to biocidal products would essentially be one logical step, so not full accreditation but, as I said, enlargement of the area and it should not be a more demanding process. In addition, the ministry could also condition a transitional period as it has done so far. So, Mr. Secretary of State, I urge you to consider before we adopt this law to also refer to yourself as a legislator to Article 44 of the Law in question and to insert this amendment and supplementing the law and conditionality of accreditation with one reasonable transitional deadline, as this would significantly improve the quality of the law. This would not be contrary to European practice and European guidelines. However, I believe that this would be looked kindly by our European partners, and it would certainly increase credibility as well as the level of human and environmental safety associated with this extremely important segment for human and environmental health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51688	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. It is next, the first distinguished representative of Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51689	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary. I will start with the basic fact that in July 2008, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on Trade, and this very fact requires that the applicable Biocidal Products Act be brought into line in the section relating to the concept of the importer, i.e. to extend this concept to natural persons, who are responsible for the registration of the activity of importing goods and services into the Republic of Croatia. As regards the Biocidal Products Act itself, the Croatian Parliament adopted it in June 2007 and, as the old Latins say, it regulates the placing on the market and use of biocidal products in the Republic of Croatia. Next, mutual recognition of the authorisation to place biocidal products in the EU on the market. The next thing is to conduct procedures to include active substances in the list of active substances. Then, the evaluation of biocidal products and the examination of their effectiveness. And finally, surveillance, which is very important, of law enforcement. And now we come to Directive 98/8 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 1998 on biocidal products have been transposed into national legislation. It was mentioned that the further mentioned law was nominated in 2008 with the provisions of Directive 2007/47 amending and supplementing the Council Directive on the harmonisation of Member States' legislation on active medical products for the installation of Council Directives on medical products and the Biocidal Products Directive. The Sanitary Inspection Act was also mentioned in September 2008 and has been applicable since 01 January 2009. In view of this fact, the provisions of the applicable Biocidal Products Act should be aligned with the provisions of that law in accordance with the new establishment of the Sanitary Inspection at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Directive 2009/107 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 amended and updated the Directive already mentioned. And the transposition of that Directive into national legislation allows for the further application of the transitional national procedure prescribed by Article. 65. the applicable Biocidal Products Act until the end of the process of testing active substances on biocidal products at EU level, i.e. 14 May 2014. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act respects the specificity of the time and process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and allows for flexible adaptation of national legislation to EU legislation. For all these reasons, I support the draft Act amending and supplementing the Biocidal Products Act with the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51690	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51691	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Biocidal products are therefore active substances and preparations containing one or more active substances produced in the form in which they are delivered to the user and whose purpose it is to destroy, deter, make harmless, prevent any harmful organism in a chemical or biological way. And the active substances in biological preparations are substances or micro-organisms including viruses and fungi that act in general or in a special way on harmful organisms. They are classified in lists that are harmonised at EU level. It's a list of 1A, 1B. And that's actually the list of active substances that are allowed to be used by biocidal products. List 1a is a list of active substances authorised for use in biocidal products of low risk and list 1b of the list of basic substances in the conditions of use in biocidal products. It is, therefore, a very wide area that certainly has significant economic significance as has been said before, but can certainly be harmful to health and the environment. And by the way, our environment in European frameworks is one of the best preserved. Of course he still needs to be protected. We also talked about this health by protecting it, and in earlier laws we heard about health care, and in one law last week we heard that the EU did not think that way. In this regard, the 2007 law governing the placing on the market of biocidal products is permitted active substances which may be used in preparations, etc. And, of course, he was also a novelist in 2008, he was in line with that '98 directive. It was novembered in 2008 and now it's up to here since, in the meantime, we passed the Law on Trade and the Law on Sanitary Inspection. So it must be aligned with this and this Directive 107, so as well. Therefore, accordingly, as the predecessors have said, the notion of an importer is extended to natural persons. Sanitary surveillance is at the Ministry of Health and Social Services, which is also said not to repeat. And this deadline is extended until 2014, as the predecessors also said, and accordingly we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51692	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51693	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here are the biocidal products, or biocidal substances, we can say that they are useful to humans, but of course they can be harmful and therefore they needed to be put under control. Since 2007, we have passed the Biocidal Products Act and this law regulates and places on the market, use of biocidal products, implementation of the process of listing substances allowed for use in biocidal products. Since biocidal agents in which one of the ingredients is actually a living microorganism, we must ensure a very high level of safety in order to protect human health, i.e. the environment. Consider the problem that brings about, or the consequences of asbestos. Let's remember how many human lives are that way we've lost. Let's remember how much money was spent on treating them. We also need to highlight the problem of allergens that are growing more and more. And that is exactly what requires a thorough examination of the substance that is spoken in this law when we talk about laboratories that need naturally accreditation. However, I support a colleague who spoke on behalf of the club that in such laboratories which, of course, need accreditation, there should be one transitional reasonable period in which these studies can be conducted. Amendments and additions to such a law were of course followed, but they always concerned compliance with EU legislation. Well, here's the deal today on our benches. Since we passed our 2 laws in the meantime it is 2007, 2008 the Law on Trade and the Law on Sanitary Inspection and this is actually today a alignment with domestic laws. And the only news is this Directive 2009/107 actually when we have an extension of the time limits for the registration of biocidal products until 14.05.2014. Of course I support these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51694	Thank you. And finally, the esteemed representative Zdenko Franic, who said he still has 2.3 sentences. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51695	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Like I said, chemicals are very, very useful to humanity, but they can also be dangerous. Therefore, particular attention should be paid to the protection of humans and the environment related to the use and transport of chemicals. And in this context, I would like to stress that almost as a rule almost all European countries have an extremely good way of informing the general public about the problems and potential dangers associated with individual chemicals. So that there are certain competent authorities or what is called in English "Competent Identifications" for certain guidelines of the European Union, so there is a great repository, so there are exactly great possibilities on the Internet so that the general public can explain the essence of certain directives. Thus, individual competent authorities for the implementation of certain Directives also have websites showing the objectives of the Directive, how the directive is incorporated into national legislation, which are product types covered by certain directives and what to do in the event of any misunderstandings. Therefore, this is one logical sequence in which certain directives are incorporated into national legislation and how this is harmonised with EU legislation, i.e. the acquis of the European Union. As well as related to this Biocidal Products Directive, the competent authority is, for example, in Great Britain so-called. "Chemical Regulatory Directories" is, say, Van Damm of our Croatian Toxicology Institute. Unfortunately, our agencies are very far from dealing with the scale of the directives they should represent. However, it may be time for the government to consider that the competent authorities really start to explain more systematically, faster and more adequately to the general public the essence of individual directives, especially those that can have exceptional consequences for human health and the environment. I mean the directives relating to the chemical industry and chemical preparations. Let's just remember the headaches our country had in 1984 when in the Kornati, a ship of Brigitte Montanari was sinked in by those ingested with that vinyl monomer. how much effort and skill it took to get him out. In order to prevent possible similar negative phenomena from happening in the environment, it is necessary to work far more on public alerts, to inform the public and to implement these measures imposed by the European Union and the Directives in question but not only on the declaration level but also on their scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51696	Thank you. At the last minute of the replica, the esteemed representative of Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51697	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. Well, my colleague Franic came to me with what you mentioned about working more on the public's warning. So I think it's precisely the question of all biocidal products, or substances that can adversely affect both people and the environment, that it's very important that exactly the public's warning goes beyond and in these changes it's also indicated through the sanitary inspection,... it does its part more concrete and that it is also more likely to be involved in it, as well as other bodies, or institutions that control it. Because what could happen, and often happens, and that is why the issue of lack of information to the public but also insufficient control that can happen in very difficult and tragic cases, as when DDT preparation was used in quite one inappropriate form, or some old lady was washing her children, she thought it would destroy her ears and even one child died. It was published in public. Therefore, the issue of controlling certain and public warnings related to these preparations is necessary to put it on a higher level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51698	Replica reply, distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51699	He is a colleague of Bodakoš but in general in Croatia should not only pay more attention to the context of these dangerous preparations but should in some ways not only suggest but also order government agencies, encourage them to work more systematically on the public’s information on the field of action, in particular on their competence for certain directives of the European Union. These agencies are unfortunately often the subject of mocking the media and the general public because in many cases they do not recognize what they are dealing with and what is their purpose and measure. Unfortunately, there are agencies that truly deserve such contempt and public attitude, but those who do their job with dignity and intelligence should therefore pay more attention to this segment relating to clarification, be European directives and the way in which we, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, will live tomorrow under this European acquis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51700	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51701	We move to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act, was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 526. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them in accordance with Article. 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Biocidal Products Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 110 votes, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51702	We're moving to agenda nine. This is - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Amendments and Supplements to the Special Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the implementation of the implementation phase of the project "Corruption of Agricultural Land in Croatia", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 527 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Josip Kraljičković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51703	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. Let me briefly explain the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Amendments and Supplements to the Special Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the implementation of the implementation phase of the "Corruption of Agricultural Land in Croatia". During the period from 1 June 2006 to 31 July 2009, the Government of the Republic of Croatia implemented the project "Corruption of Agricultural Land in Croatia" under the Law on the Confirmation of the Special Contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the implementation of the implementation phase of the project. The aim of the project was to support the development of arable agricultural land policy, which was achieved through the implementation of the following project components. Implementation of the 5 pilot of the agricultural land rounding project in 4 counties in Vukovar-Srijemska, Zagrebačka, Varazdinsko, Primorje-goranskoga plus 5 new counties later: Sisak-Moslavina, Bjelovarsko-Biogorska, Brodsko-Posaviska, Virovitičko-podravska and Zadar County. The objectives are also to support the development of rules governing the circulation of agricultural land, which we have adopted in the Agricultural Land Law Assembly. Also supporting the development of institutions responsible for the rounding up of agricultural land, the Agricultural Land Agency has just been established, should begin work on 1 July of this year. Implementation of the education of participants in the rounding up of agricultural land and land policy enforcement. During this period, we have trained 16 people we hold to be expert in implementing the project of circumnavigation. Since the project found that one of the most pronounced obstacles that significantly slows the circulation of agricultural land is insufficient education and information of farmers, land policy providers and landowners, on legal opportunities for the rounding up of agricultural land, it is intended to extend this law to the implementation of a project component relating to the implementation of the education of participants in the field of agricultural land and land policy enforcement during the period from 1 June 2009 to 1 June 2010. This law confirms the contract to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of funding from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51704	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51705	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, we have before us a proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Amendments and Supplements to the Special Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the implementation of the implementation phase of the "Corruption of Agricultural Land in Croatia" project signed on 29 June 2009. At the beginning of this debate, I would like to stress that we from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the proposed law on the confirmation of the contract in question, which in principle changes and complements the Special Treaty signed on 21 June 2006 and confirmed by the Croatian Parliament on 9 May 2008. The basic reasons why we support the adoption of the proposed law lie in the fact that we from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community truly believe that without quality land policy, but also consistent implementation of its measures in practice is not realistic or expect the desired level of development of Croatian agriculture. So we agree with all those who do not reduce the importance of other measures of agricultural policy, however, see the key to the development of Croatian agriculture, and as part of the land policy policy, or the processes of rounding agricultural land as one of its most significant segments. In the same context, we believe that all interested and competent for the agriculture sector, so from farmers themselves, units of local self-government, competent state institutions, ministries, governments, but also ourselves in the Croatian Parliament, we must be aware that without organised and rounded agricultural land, it is simply not possible to expect the achievement of the basic objectives of land policy, which, on the one hand, are going towards increasing the basis for the development of agricultural production by putting into operation previously unused agricultural land and, on the other hand, towards the formation of agricultural economies with a clear and long-term market perspective, of course, by the process of rounding them. According to its definition of rounding agricultural land or better termed possessions, it is a process of purchasing, replacing and renting agricultural land to increase the total area of agricultural land used by one agricultural holding, i.e. to group cadastral particles of agricultural land into larger and more regular parcels. It is therefore a matter of procedures which create more favourable conditions for soil processing, and therefore also for more efficient and economic use of agricultural land. The need to make constant efforts towards rounding agricultural land clearly warns the 2003 agricultural census data that speak of as many as 448 thousand 530 agricultural households, which have an average of 2 hectares of agricultural land, and that more than three-quarters of agricultural households have less than 3 hectares. Of course, more favourable data are according to the register of agricultural economies with which we also cannot be completely satisfied, but they are much better. So we are talking about an average of 6 and a half hectares of agricultural land, but if we combine this data with the countries of the old European Union, then in no way can we be satisfied because we know that in certain countries such as France and Germany, the average holding of agricultural holdings is about 40 to 50 hectares. So one and another data suggests that today in the Republic of Croatia we still have a large number of small and depreciated agricultural properties, on which agricultural economies simply cannot achieve income that would be sufficient for an adequate standard of living without talking about investing and improving such agricultural economies. Of course, this state of agricultural land and the structure of agricultural holdings, if we observe them with the basis of the size of their property, we cannot be satisfied, but we must also be honest and acknowledge that this is the result of the previously owned heritage of the former socialist system when investments in agriculture and activities around the organisation of agricultural land were directed exclusively towards a small number of large agricultural combinations in social property, while small family farms were kept on the margin. It is also necessary to say that during the mentioned socialist period in the Republic of Croatia the cadastrian records, and particularly the land records are not maintained and regularly updated, so today we have a state of mutual discrepancies of cadastrian and land records, which therefore often show no real situation on the ground. This situation is simply unsustainable, given that it is a huge obstacle to the development of the market in agricultural land, and thus the rounding of agricultural land, it is therefore not difficult to conclude that we will need a lot of time and money and work and consciousness, but above all knowledge, at a multidisciplinary level to improve the situation. Despite this previously said, in order not to create a false impression, we believe that it is necessary to stress in particular the fact that all governments so far have indeed made great efforts that have gone in the direction of regulating and rounding up agricultural land in the previous period, which ultimately resulted in certain results. As early as 1991, the first Agricultural Land Act was adopted on the basis of which agricultural land in social property became agricultural land owned by the state. So then formal assumptions were already created for the start of the country-owned agricultural land, as one of the main assumptions for the rounding up of agricultural land, and available in practice began in 2004. In 2001, a new Agricultural Land Act was adopted, which was available to agricultural land owned by the country by the end of 2008, when a new agricultural land law was adopted today, which was in our opinion and our position a significant step towards all previous laws, primarily because it finally regulates the conditions and the way in which agricultural land is available in private ownership, provides for the establishment of a central information system on agricultural land, and for the establishment of a Agricultural Land Agency as a specialised public institution to carry out agricultural farming and agricultural land management activities. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also adopted in early 2009 a programme for the rounding up of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2021, which is a quality strategic document and which needs to be consistently implemented as well as the Agricultural Land Act in the coming period which, we believe in the coming period... certain improvements and we believe that if we do so, the results of the rounding of agricultural land will not be left behind. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No less important reference is made to the model of capital investments in agriculture and operational programmes to raise multi-annual crops that stimulate the purchase of private agricultural land and thus also contribute to the circulation of agricultural land. Finally, during the period from June 2006 to the end of 2009, the Government of the Republic of Croatia carried out a project of rounding up agricultural land in Croatia worth about 31 million Swedish crowns, of which 17.4 million Swedish crowns or at a valid rate of about 13 million kuna, is a financial contribution from the Kingdom of Sweden, which should give them genuine gratitude on this occasion. The project mentioned above, which can be concluded by its name, was aimed at supporting the development of the agricultural land circulation policy in the Republic of Croatia, thus contributing to the development of the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and the sustainability of rural development in the Republic of Croatia. The project consists of 5 project components, of which 4 are at the time of the project, and the validity of the special contract is fully realised, and these are the following components. Therefore, the implementation of 5 pilot agricultural land rounding projects, support for the development of rules governing the rounding of agricultural land, support for the development of an institution for the rounding up of agricultural land and the establishment of a land fund, and the implementation of promotional activities, while the implementation of educational activities as the fifth component of the project was carried out during the second half of 2009. In view of the fact that the special contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden was in force until 31 May 2009, this means that the financing of the fifth component of the project at the time of its completion, so there was no formal basis for funding. For this reason, it is proposed that the Act confirming the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements to the Specific Treaty, establishing a legal framework extending the deadlines for the implementation and financing of the fifth component of the project, as well as the conditions and method of application of the financial contribution of the Kingdom of Sweden, which is indicative of 760 thousand Swedish crowns. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community's club particularly wants to emphasise that all of these are mentioned, all of the aforementioned activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also those not mentioned in the previous period, have obtained solid results, so that today in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia we have a much better situation when it comes to the regulation of agricultural land, but also when it comes to the structure of agricultural holdings than it was, of course, 10 years ago or that we do not speak 20 years ago. This is best witnessed by data on the average ownership of agricultural holdings that has increased by just over 3 hectares in the past 10 years, and even better data on the fact that today we have about 7,000 agricultural holdings that have more than 30 hectares of agricultural land. Therefore, it is a marketable agricultural holding. And in 2003, there were only 3.5 thousand. So, twice as much. Respecting all this previously said, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51706	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51707	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Proposal for a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on amendments and additions to the Treaty on the phase of implementation of the project "Corruption of Agricultural Land in Croatia", what we must say is that this process is going very slowly. That Croatia will join the EU in a few years, but unfortunately we will enter the EU unprepared, especially when it comes to agriculture. The new law also regulates the establishment of a central information system for agricultural land, i.e. the possibility of the one that doesn't exist. I have warned since we discussed the OIB and the possibility of using the OIB that the same OIB and Central Register should be applied to land books. The process has started, but the process is not nearly complete, and this process has been so slowed down that a major mess is in the process of reforming the land books. The Agricultural Land Agency is also envisaged. What has to be said is that, as could be implemented with the central information system, land-book reform, as announced 3 years ago, and not done, this central information system for agricultural land is unlikely to get its results, and in 3 years we will be participants in an equal European market with some exceptions in the EU. What to say is that Croatia is also unprepared for agriculture entering the EU. We are joining the EU as an unprepared state. Our subsidies and support are more than 3 billion and our farmers are currently at social level, not market categories. They need over 3 billion subsidies. This is in developed European countries agriculture is financed from so-called ". Common European Agricultural Policy, so-called Common agricultural policy, which is down to 40% of the European budget. 40% of the EU budget. Half of these incentives go to incentives for rural development, and half of these incentives, i.e. It's about half around here, going to direct payments to farmers, but it's a hectare. We protect the price of protection. We have not prepared our farmers for the shock that will happen when we join the EU. That's what the main problem is. This year and already happens to be late support and subsidies. Who will tell people when we join the EU that they no longer have the right to what they had until yesterday? This is the main problem of our non-resolvement of accumulated problems in Croatian agriculture. Otherwise, when it comes to the EU, there are some averages. The common European agricultural policy refers to properties, economic properties that are on average more than 40 hectares. The average in Croatia is for agricultural operators, meaning agricultural holdings, just slightly higher than 5 hectares. 6 times lower is the average of our agricultural producer than in the EU, and how will we be competitive? How can we be competitive? 90 to 100 cows per employee is the European average or the US average. In Croatia, the average is about 10, 15 throats. We can't be competitive. We haven't prepared our country for all the shocks that will especially take place in agriculture. And that's what we want to warn you about. I would like this process of "Corruption of Agricultural Land" which is financed by foreigners, in part, not for no reason, to go much faster than it has ever been and especially when it comes to informing the system itself, the stories do not remain in words as it has remained in the words of taking care of land books. Not to be left in words when it comes to surrounding agricultural land. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51708	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51709	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Bernardic, said that in Croatia, the average of ownership is 6 times lower than the EU. I will remind him that Croatia has an average of approximately 7 hectares, and together with Croatia are Slovenia, Bulgaria, Poland, Hungary and Italy. And behind Croatia are Malta, Romania, Cyprus and Greece. So those behind are also in the EU and those who are together with Croatia. So it's not true what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51710	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. ... What's the matter? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Should we wait for her? No, we're not. ... She hasn't spoken since yesterday? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, it'll be tomorrow. It's our guest, Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51711	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here with 0.67 hectares of agricultural land Croatia per capita belongs to countries that are relatively rich in agricultural land. Compared to EU countries in Croatia, less agricultural land is used by the economy whether it is a comparison of commercial users of support or of all economies. This points to another major depletion of domestic agricultural holdings, with the average of commercial economies about 8.5 hectares and the average of all other economies of only 2.9 hectares. Small possessions have become a serious obstacle to the development of Croatian agriculture. Of the commercial economies, 63% of them have less than 3 hectares, while the number of medium-sized agrarian holdings that have between 20 and 300 hectares of land is rising, with a total of around 23% of agricultural land. The city and municipality programmes that are the basis for the country's agricultural land so far cover around 550,000 hectares. They planned 219 thousand hectares for sale, and by the middle of this year about 50 thousand hectares or 20% planned. The sale of agricultural land is necessary to increase because farmers are not inclined to grow plantations, especially orchards, olive groves on a foreign land. But it is only possible to achieve this when the land-book situation is settled which requires geodetic measurement and resolution of property-legal relations, which is a long and expensive process. Local self-government units shall lease at least those more agile areas for sale until the land-booking situation is settled. Since the beginning of availability to state agricultural land more precisely since '95. contracts for 282 thousand 95 hectares of country-owned agricultural land have been concluded so far. The highest area was leased 56%, sold 23%, and 19% of the land was given in the concession. The objective of the land policy between 2009 and 2011 is to round up the average agricultural property, i.e. agricultural land which benefits the agricultural economy by increasing the area by an average of five hectares and reducing the number of production parcels by about 50%. Cruising agricultural land is one of the most important processes in domestic agrarian until the entry into the European Union. The rounding process began to be carried out through five pilot projects aimed at detecting the biggest obstacles to the work, but also to prepare the ground for the establishment of a farm land agency. The project is worth 27 million kuna, from which the Kingdom of Sweden singled out 13 million kuna. The results achieved by the implementation of the project are as follows, so project workers have been educated and prepared to work in the future agricultural land agency. The croping of agricultural land has been given due attention to the Croatian public and has gained experience with the implementation of pilot projects, the rounding of agricultural land has been used as a basis for making regulations. There are also certain problems for the rounding up of agricultural land, and they are primarily double taxation on the turnover of agricultural land in the process of rounding up agricultural land in accordance with the Real estate tax Act. Before mentioning the unsettled land, library and cadastrian situation on agricultural land and complicated and long-term procedures to settle land-based and catastrian conditions. Unhandled and abandoned agricultural land and another major problem, it is an unlimited parcel of cadastrian land particles as a consequence of the implementation of desert debates or other forms of decomposing of co-ownership. There is no cheap food or future for domestic agriculture without rounding up, i.e. as a function of agricultural land. The use of agricultural land by the economy is the largest in Denmark and the Czech Republic where the average is between 60 and 90 hectares. In Sweden, Germany, France, Great Britain, Luxembourg, the average is between 40 and 60 hectares. Spain, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Belgium, Estonia, Ireland, Finland averages between 20 and 40 hectares, and Lithuania, Portugal, Latvia and Austria from 10 to 20 hectares. The average agricultural property in the Member States of the European Union is precisely due to the long-term application of combinations of different measures such as limiting the freedom of the market to agricultural land and the operation of the land fund. It's also a co-commissioning exercise. Croatia is located with five to 10 hectares of land per economy in groups with Slovenia, Bulgaria, Poland, Hungary, Italy, and at the bottom of the scale are Malta, Romania, Cyprus and Greece with less than five hectares of land used by the economy. The tightness of the property is also a problem from the county from which I come, which is Zadar County. On average, one unit on the list used only 1.46 agricultural land and on this as much as 5.5 parcels. By including Zadar County in the piloting project of cropping agricultural land, an opportunity has been given to improve the ownership structure of agricultural land based on experience from piloted rounding projects from Vrbovac, Krasic, Vidovac, Novi Vinodolski, Tompojevac. For all this, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51712	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51713	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here are many of the measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken were aimed right at rounding, because rounding the agricultural land because it is a problem that exists means not in recent Croatian history but really somewhere in the 50s. One of these measures and a state-owned programme, which closed contracts somewhere up to now about 300 thousand hectares, of which 56% were leased, 21 concessions, 23 sold. The results of this programme carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia have, however, affected the rounding of agricultural land but only the state property I will remind you of in the Republic of Croatia only 33%. The agricultural land in private ownership, and here it was 67% not regulated until the adoption of the Agricultural Land Act, but the general rules governing ownership were applied, resulting in further or further depletion of our production parcels. So today, the average size of the agricultural holding in the Republic of Croatia is around 7 hectares, and in the European Union, the average is around 50 hectares. And here's a colleague of the Box said where we are right now in that society. Let's say France is 36, England is 68, and here's the country that helps us financially in this program has an average of 42 hectares. Trends are increasing in Europe, but the trend is also with us. We all know that the size of the plot is one of the crucial factors of the competitiveness of the largest part of agricultural production. In addition to rounding up agricultural land since 2004, it has been encouraging the implementation of the capital investment model and, in particular, the allocation of support for the purchase of private land to round up agricultural property. It is important here to say that the agricultural land is surrounded and as a consequence of that programme that I said at the beginning of my presentation. The government of the Republic of Croatia has also implemented a project to round up agricultural land co-financed by the Kingdom of Sweden. The aim of the project was to support the development of the circularity policy already implemented by the Republic of Croatia and achieved by the implementation of the following components. It means the implementation of five pilot rounding projects, supporting the development of rules governing rounding, supporting the development of institutions for rounding, implementing the education of participants and rounding operators, but also promotional activities related to the mentioned problem. The implementation of this project found that one of the reasons why it slows down or even in some areas makes it impossible to round up exactly the necessity and non-information of farmers, as well as land policy providers and owners of agricultural land. So I think it's a good thing that the funds that are left here from that program are directed in that direction. The most important result of this project is that the local population has become aware that real estate care and so the property-legal relations on agricultural land is the sole concern of the real estate owner. The role of the project as mediators and advisers in the rounding process has also proved crucial and as an important result of the implementation of the project has also been established by the Agricultural Land Agency, which will surround the agricultural land in a long-term and sustainable manner, in the same manner as it was done in this project, as it meant. I'll finish it. The regulated property-legal relations on agricultural land are a prerequisite for the implementation of the rounding of agricultural land through the purchase and replacement, but also for the education and information of all the factors of this process. But I would also point out now, we can still influence this, the good organisation of the agency and the structure that needs to be done as soon as possible and the consistency of all the institutions involved in this process, so courts and coordination between all institutions could yet produce results. However, we should not expect results immediately. This is a process that will take a long time, and here is this agreement and these additional funds that we have and which are the subject of this law will allow us to do so as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51714	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51715	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When I was the Agricultural Land Act in this room, I was also involved in the debate, in order to pass a good Agricultural Land Law, and the assumption that this Agricultural Land Act would be implemented and that municipalities, cities that had been assigned to Croatia, would have to make available to agricultural land where they had to put back in those programmes the former communist system had taken away from the country, the lease, concessions and sales. I can conclude here that the return has not yet been fully completed, and the deadlines for reporting the seized areas were 31.12.2007. Why not? Why didn't this job end for people to get a land that was unjustly taken from them. In my opinion, what's on the agenda today, and that's changing agricultural land, if there's no change in agricultural land in me, there's no return in full, lease, concession or sale. I therefore support this law and I also appeal to the Agricultural Land Agency for the purpose of rounding up agricultural land for me should bring together funds and counties, cities and municipalities available to agricultural land and the State Geodetic Authority. We used to do this, I don't know what the situation is now, then when I was working at the local administration alone on the principle of 34% of the State Geodetic Administration or the State Budget, 33% of the county and 33% of the municipalities on which the measurement is carried out. Because once again I say, without a measure of agricultural land, there is no available agricultural land. Cases on the ground occur that the land which has been drained, which has passed the sewer network, where the same canal network is held, and the land is managed under infertile soil, meadows, so that those tenants who use this agricultural land, regardless of the form in which it is done, whether the concession, sale or lease are paying minimum fees for the lease of that agricultural land and, in that case, loses on the budget and county and state, and of course, the municipality on which the agricultural land is located. It is therefore very important that, for the purpose of rounding up and making available this same agricultural land, we make this measure that is linked to, one without another, with the rounding up of agricultural land so that we have greater income on those surfaces, and that, for the reason that the Croatian farmer, the one who has, regardless of what kind of availability, would welcome the entry into the European Union into harsh, I would say, the agricultural market and the great competition in the countries of the European Union. For this reason, all these years, the Republic of Croatia has also introduced support for heated cultures, introduced support for capital investment in agriculture, not only in terms of machinery, agricultural connections, but also in terms of the construction of farms, new plantations, vineyards, orchards, etc., all for the purpose of making the Croatian farmer, Croatian farmer competitive, today when we join the European Union, farmers in the European Union. This way I thank the Kingdom of the Republic of Sweden for these 13 million kunas. But once again, I think it would be good to pool the funds, set priorities for the rounding and start with this job to make it as much as we can until the end, until Croatia enters the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51716	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Branko Box, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51717	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djurdjevic, you have said that pooling the funds of the local self-government unit, the regional self-government, the state geodetic administration, the state budget is a prerequisite for speeding up this problem. I definitely agree with that, but I will also point out that education seems to me to be an even bigger problem for our population, or farmers, regarding accepting or not accepting this problem. So I think we should do a few jobs parallelly. And the third problem for me which is equally important and valuable, which is to solve property-legal problems. Do we know, in large complexes that are state-owned that units of local self-government have adopted programmes on the availability of agricultural land but that they also cannot sell this agricultural land to farmers because they are not harmonised by the CAP and the state of ownership, and that means that this is a process that takes a long time, as I said on the one hand, is a process that local self-government units must finance. So even though the land is owned by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51718	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51719	Thank you very much. So in my presentation on this subject I didn't touch the little... agricultural areas, of course this job will be easier to finish on those surfaces, I would say to me the former peaks that the municipalities and cities have gotten into at the disposal of this state land, will be easier to do and to sort out the situation in the cadastre in the grantovnica, but a great problem as you fellow Boxes have pointed out will be on the small dry surfaces, where it is previously necessary to carry out the measurement previously... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and fix the property so that now I don't elaborate that one particle has spread to three, four brothers, sisters, and that it needs to be circled, and in order for this to be carried out again, we must take that agricultural land to the beginning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51720	Thank you. It's time for the distinguished representative, Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51721	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will certainly support the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Amendments and Supplements to the Treaty on the implementation of the phase of the agricultural land rounding project. It is my personal view that this project is extremely good, that it is twice useful for the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to the segment of agriculture and the population dealing with agriculture, and I must say that this project has shown extremely good results in the field. I personally followed the project when it was carried out in these 9 counties that you listed, it was carried out in my Sisak-Moslavina County and I would like first of all to commend the employees who were employed on this project, because I think they have produced excellent results during this one-time period. I also see this project as one good base and a base for the establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency. In this Croatian Parliament, we have adopted a new Agricultural Land Act, an integral part of this law is also an obligation to establish a Agricultural Land Agency, and it was the beginning of this year, so we have made amendments and additions to which we have slightly moved that deadline, of course the goal is that when this agency begins to work to remove all the misunderstandings that have been opened in the context of our parliamentary debate. But I think that no matter who belongs to the political option, everyone agrees that it is necessary to introduce order in the management of agricultural land on the ground, that there is a need for one synergy and municipalities and cities, but of course the state and that sometimes it is necessary and tolerance for the users of that agricultural land themselves. I am personally saddened that there is still a very large area of agricultural land, which is ready for processing, which has grown unfortunately into a variety of plants that are not being processed today, and we know that in Croatia there is indeed a serious problem in production, i.e. in the self-sufficiency of certain products. I truly truly believe and see agriculture as a development opportunity for Croatia. This requires both political will and political decision. I think we made that political decision the moment we adopted the work programme of the Government of Croatia for the period 2008 to 2012 where we clearly opened up opportunities for the development of Croatian villages and for the development of Croatian agriculture. The fact is that there is no development of Croatian agriculture without the introduction of order into agricultural land, i.e. if we do not put raw agricultural land into operation, then we cannot expect farmers to be able to produce sufficient quantities of food. Given that today is a top issue everywhere, not only in Europe and in the world, but in Europe and in the world, I really advocate that our farmers are given adequate support and that the ministry also advocates that certain problems on the ground be solved. I don't think it's a good situation that happens in certain municipalities and cities, where the mayors of certain decisions give the same land to different users, so I'm talking about that land that the agricultural land distribution programme wasn't established for sale and then there's chaos on the ground, that one tenant pays the rent and then another so-called. the tenant for the same land enters the property and uses it. It seems to me that there is a need for greater activity of the inspection services of the Ministry of Agriculture, as is necessary and to determine who and how it handles certain agricultural areas. I think as in any other business and segment of our lives, justice is important, and it seems to me that every time certain changes occur, when these changes are particularly difficult for them to somehow break on the back of our agricultural producers. In that sense, when we associate the availability of agricultural land and food production and stronger support for agriculture, I would like to reiterate the Secretary of State, I have writtenly directed it to the Ministry of Agriculture that indeed the Ministry of Agriculture is given one key role when it comes to agricultural policy and when it comes to agricultural products, especially when it comes to food imports. I believe that food importers need to increase customs duties to make our product, a domestic product more competitive. I also believe that the importers of agricultural products that are sufficient in Croatia should be suspended from support. We have recently witnessed a situation that was extremely difficult, when there was not enough financial resources to pay for the support of agricultural producers, because all agricultural producers had to bear the same burden. I do not agree with such a way of working, I believe that that agricultural producer who works in Croatia, who lives out of his work, who feeds his family, who manufactures this Croatian domestic agricultural product must have the help of the state to secure the market, I think that the best market and most rational is tourism and that it must have that support from the state because this support is not social assistance, it is nothing unusual, it is also the other European countries. And I also believe that those big trade chains, those who live to buy cheap milk in BiH, meat in Romania or onion in Egypt cannot get the support of the Croatian state. And in that sense, here, and in that segment, if the Ministry of Agriculture advocates such a agricultural policy, they will have my support. I believe that there is indeed a chance and a place that all our family economies that are listed in the register survive, but there is a need for both state and county and municipalities and cities. And of course multiple benefits are these programs that come from our friends like Sweden. Because this program is really giving good results and I think it's worth supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51722	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51723	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, you mentioned and talked about the changes that are being broken on farmers and that will be broken in the future. Well, if those changes had been made and it had been better to change exactly in agriculture, it wouldn't have broken down on them. We would not have to discuss failures in this year, we would not have to discuss major problems in the sector today, but we are still talking about it today. Also, political will, you also mentioned that political will is needed to move towards stronger supervision, to move towards greater and faster circulation. The question is, gentlemen, you've been in power for six years, what have you been doing these last six years? What is unfortunately the current situation in Croatia is that farmers are not a market category but a social category, a country-dependent category, and there was no strength or reform to prepare them for all that awaits us by entering Croatia into the EU. And unfortunately, we're going to suffer one big shock.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51724	Replica reply, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51725	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bernardic, I believe that agriculture really shouldn't be a topic or area especially here in Croatia where it will be politicised and in some ways distorting the facts. All those whose agriculture and Croatian village are at heart have a duty to do certain things. We have passed all the laws we have drawn ourselves and in this segment it is certain that a shift has been made and that Croatian agriculture is ready to join the EU. I can agree with you that there is still work to be done in haste on the ground to help our agricultural producers. But I also believe that the changes that are happening in our agriculture sector are no different from the changes that have occurred in other countries in the environment. It is their experience that can be a good guide for us not to make mistakes in those segments in which they have sinned. Also, I think it's perfectly natural and normal that every country protects its production, and in that sense I, and here every time I discuss agriculture, make proposals. I know the measures I advocate are not easy to implement overnight, but I think they are for the benefit of Croatian peasants and Croatian peoples and we need to find a way to protect domestic production.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51726	Thank you. And a replica, the esteemed representative of Šima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51727	Thank you very much. Here again, a colleague, Petir, spoke of renting agricultural land to receive agricultural land at the tender, and after a few days, a second person entered and processed the country in a sublet. I don't think that's controversial. It's better that the country is processed than standing empty, but that suggests that it's better to give the country a concession. For that reason, because the farmer was burdened by buying machinery. Today, tractors of 150, 200 horsepower, the size of horsepower is so many thousands of euros. One plow with rollovers is about 70,000 kuna, 10,000 euros. He's burdened himself and now he doesn't have the means to go to the variety of buying agricultural land. It is therefore a better variant that our municipalities, I would suggest, are changing the separation program, where they will give larger areas in the concession. The concession is 20, 30 years old, it's already loaded with banks, it's got loan payments for what he invested. Whether in the machinery, either in the farm or in the purchase of agricultural land, it has also been returned to Croatia for concessions to prevail. It's my thinking, personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51728	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51729	Thank you very much. Well, since agricultural land is a national resource, I think it is extremely important for those who really love the country to rule it, and these are Croatian farmers. And I'm always for it when possible, when there are certain conditions for our Croatian farmer to buy that land. So I'm saying he owns the land. Maybe we didn't understand each other when I was talking about certain municipalities and cities that rent the same land to different users. That's unfair. Because if I come to the municipality and as an OPG, I want to rent a certain land to process it and sign the contract and pay the lease, then it's unnatural, abnormal and against all laws, and I ask that the ministry with its inspection services solve it, that the same land that the OPG has already leased and on which it was supposed to process the land and sow it to be leased to someone else without a single kuna. That's what I call political games, not the availability of agricultural land, and in that segment I sought the activity of the Ministry of Agriculture and their inspections. And of course I agree with you that any land that can be put into operation should be put into operation because it is, of course, in accordance with both the existing positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia and also with some normal airs. We want the land to be cultured, not to grow weed on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51730	Thank you. The next should be the honourable representative Zlatko Koračević. I can see he's gone. He's losing his right to argue at this point. There are no more reported. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Josip Kraljičković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I thank you for your discussion of the comments on the proposals. We can immediately cry out that we are all well aware that there is no agriculture in the world that has no problem. And it's agriculture law, so we haven't heard anything new about how someone said it today. So that's out of the question, and that's good, and then that encourages everyone else to solve the problems. What is important here may be to better understand some of these questions that have been asked today. First of all, the central information system. He's not listed anywhere in the law. So the law passed by the Croatian Parliament which entered 1. 1. In 2009, Article 4 states that an information system on agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia will be established and consists of three subsystems. The first subsystem is available to state agricultural land, the second is owned by natural and legal persons and is third on the maintenance and protection of agricultural land. So this applies to the exploitation system and we're setting it up right now. Among other things, we have established a Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, where the Office for the Land and Land Conservation is developing and a significant investment has just been completed in this institution in Osijek of nearly 6 million kuna, where it will be possible to run certain analyses and monitoring that I hold will be useful for all of Croatia, but even for the region. When it comes to the preparation of our farmers, we must say that no matter how much we prepare and what experiences other countries have, that you can never prepare farmers enough or yourself for what awaits us, because there will always be surprises. But what we did in the meantime, here's what we thank you for your cooperation. So the Agricultural Chamber Act was passed by the Croatian Parliament, the chamber was established and the chamber started working. And the chamber has been elected and voted on by all who are registered in the register, so all farmers and they are the representatives of all farmers. And they today have a big meeting at the ministry about everything that's important to them, they set up committees in certain areas, individual sectors. Thus, it will also enable farmers to get better acquainted and preparation through their own engagement in terms of entering the European Union and what is expected of us there. Also in all the committees that are in the Ministry of Agriculture are representatives of agricultural producers, and cooperatives, and chambers. The institutions we hold are established directly to help farmers, and they are the ones who work most to prepare them and to join the European Union soon. And you all know well that we have set up a Croatian Agricultural Agency that has expanded the former Croatian... centre which has the task of helping all farmers in the Croatian area right in the preparation of support and in the preparation of the support they are and will be in the European Union. The Croatian Institute for Agriculture... service covers all of Croatia in all cities and municipalities and in all counties. And we believe that our farmers are also being helped and prepared through this work. When it comes to support in agriculture, perhaps we should remove the same particular misunderstandings, and they are always good for discussion for the public. We are all and all political parties, regardless of whether they are in the Parliament or have not decided that the entry into the European Union is one of the main political objectives, and that means accepting the common agricultural policy, so we will cut short. And in this common European agricultural policy, it is said, among other things, that support is obtained for each hectare, for each throat, and that support is the monetary income of the agricultural holding to carry out agricultural activities to support income. And that's exactly what we prescribed by our law 20 years ago, and we're doing it. And you can't say that attitudes and professions but also practice that support in the agricultural social category. She repeats her support for income for someone to deal with agriculture. It is a European asset and we apply it in accordance with the regulations and our decisions to enter the European Union. When it comes to the level of support we have two pillars. The first pillar is the pillar of direct support, direct payments of production support and it moves in Croatia at the level of 2.2 to 2.5 billion kuna and these support is received by all those we have said and there are about 100 thousand agricultural holdings. When it comes to payments, all payments for this year mean that they have already been made, they were made for the year before and for the 2009 production year, so is the law of the European Union when we enter. They shall be paid within the legal period prescribed and in the amount secured in the budget. So we can't talk about some problem with... with payments or with no support payments. When it comes to the incomes that units of local self-government and county and the Republic of Croatia make available to state agricultural land, just to remind you that 50% of the income comes to local self-government units, 25% to the county and 25% to the Republic of Croatia. From selling 50% also to the local self-government unit and from... renting 50% to the local self-government unit. Why am I saying that? Because the income is strictly intended and it is among other things tasked with helping local self-government units to measure and address the property-legal status of their land. So there are no obstacles as to the insurance of funds and legal bases that local self-government units do not agree with the State... administration and with the county. So on that side as a state, we have also provided security, and that is also prescribed by the rules that are in force and which are published in the National Journal. When it comes to the availability of state agricultural land, I would also like to make it clear to all those who listen to us. In Croatia, state agricultural land can be available exclusively on the basis of the Agricultural Land Act, which means that agricultural land can only be obtained through a public tender. Furthermore, this means with the availability programme that each unit of local self-government should have developed. Under the programme, competitions and competitions are being conducted in units of local self-government, the Ministry of Agriculture gives consent to the selection of the best bidder and that is all from the ministry. The rest is in local self-government units. It also gives consent to the programmes themselves. What is also important to say, this is our reality, regardless of what the law passed in 2001 by the Croatian Parliament, since the units of local self-government have the obligation and the right to develop programs and to have... agricultural land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We still have 105 units of local self-government that haven't developed programs. We've got 120 units of local self-government that got their consent from the ministry, but they didn't call a single contest. So we've taken over these last two months of maximum activity to encourage units of local self-government, so we've involved here and regionally, means county. Here we are also visiting Croatia, but they also came to us with the intention of encouraging and helping to develop programmes, but also to compete with the implementation and that the holding agricultural land is put into operation in accordance with the law through competition and in accordance with the programme of availability. When it comes to aids that are different from other aids, then we can say that we do not coordinate all our incentives, support, to call them, with what we have in the European Union, and we are obliged and there are no discrimination, so that we cannot do some things that we might want to point out in particular that for certain types of producers we will have one, and for other kinds of incentives in terms of what we are talking about and which are in line with the Agricultural and Rural Aid Act. When it comes to other problems related to agricultural land, I must say here, and we will have later, perhaps next week already in the Assembly one amendment to the Agriculture Act that the government has also adopted the concept of a new reform of support in agriculture where a special emphasis is given precisely on agricultural land. This means that it is very important to formally take care of agricultural land because it will be, as we say, the main basis for providing support when we enter the European Union. So all the activities that we do at the government level and at the Ministry of Agriculture, if we're going to get support, help your, your parliamentary representatives both on the ground and here, will hopefully be of benefit to all of us. Because it is important for the new model that what is entered in the first year will later have the right to support, so that if something is not entered in the number of years and entry into the European Union, it will be very difficult, or it will be difficult to achieve these areas later in accordance with the common European agricultural policy. I think I mostly answered and explained all of your doubts that you may have had and the questions that I have recorded and I hold that the confirmation of this contract will also contribute to projects like it was with the Swedish government continuing with other governments and that through this process that we will never say, that it will continue, that our Agency for Agricultural Land that we hold will begin with work. I will inform you that the statute has been adopted, that the Agency is registered and that certain other acts are being adopted and that soon we will hope to begin and work and that one of the main tasks of that agency will be just to conduct the rounding. And for the implementation of the rounding project, it is very important to arrange the property-legal property of its land, regardless of whether it was private or whether it was state-owned. Thank you very much for supporting this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51732	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. This would end the work today, and I announce that on Wednesday at 9.30 we will continue to work on the session with the 4th point, the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2009, the applicant of the National Committee. Have a nice vacation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-04-16-0.u51733	The sixth, final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on Amendments and Supplements to the Specific Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 527. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal of the Treaty Confirmation Act was adopted by the majority of votes, 108 votes to, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
