ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48488	Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs, esteemed MPs. The report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War has already been presented exhaustively in writing, so I will now just repeat or supplement some of its parts. Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War founded in 2005 as a public scientific institution specialized in the task of collecting, collecting and preserving, and scientific research and publication of archive materials from the Homeland War. It is located in the Croatian National Archives building at Marulic Square 21 in Zagreb, and has about 3300 boxes of documents, mostly Republika Srpska. More than 11,000 photos and more than 1400 hours of video. The conventional material centre is kept in storage in the building of the Croatian State Archives and Kerestinec, and unconventional material is stored under appropriate conditions in special storage facilities in the Croatian State Archives and Croatian Cinematheque. Since an objective display of history with a relevant number of sources is needed and insight into the most important professional literature, the centre creates its own library on the Homeland War. The centre has 18 employees, and I thank this occasion for their commitment to work. The intensive collection and research of materials and the rich publishing and cultural educational activities of the centre are the result of the efforts of all its employees. Among them are one doctor and two master of science, and eight employees are in a doctoral study. Assuming that they will continue to deal with the problem of the Homeland War, I consider it a cornerstone of the development of the centre in a solid scientific institution. The cost of obtaining a doctorate for its employees has so far managed to settle thanks primarily to the understanding of the Minister of Culture and Science, Božno Biskupić and employees of the Ministry of Culture who have provided the necessary funds for the work of the Centre. For example, in the last year it amounted to 3 million and 720 thousand kunas from budget and income. That's for... estimated about 600 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to inheriting the materials, the centre employees worked on the creation of memoirs and of course on the collection of documents in accordance with the requirements of domestic and international courts and parties in the proceedings before them. Especially for the defence of Croatian generals before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague. From the other activities of the centre, I will mention: a script was written in the centre for the documentary film "Vukovar '91." Director Eduardo Galic. In competition with daily papers from 40 countries and more than 400 major daily newspapers in the world, the film was named in May 2008 as the world's highest news prize and was declared a newspaper publishing venture of the year in the world. In the last 2 years organized by the Agency for Education and Education, with the professional assistance of our centre and, of course, with the approval of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, seminars were held for history teachers in schools with topics from the Homeland War. The next one will be held in April, and the seminar theme will be the dream of the Homeland War. A list of dead and dead in the occupied area of the Republic of Croatia has been continued, so they are mostly persons of Serbian nationality. An analysis of the list of the Veritas documentation and information centre run by Savo Strbac in Belgrade has shown that the errors in it are not random, and they are very numerous. The cultural and educational activities of the centre consist of promotions, exhibitions, scientific and professional gatherings and public hearings and lectures. The lectures try to talk about less famous, perhaps neglected events, or seek answers to individual questions. For example, during 2006, the centre organized professional stands in Grubišni polje, Daruvar, Lipik, Pakrac and Zagreb for the first release operation in the Homeland War which was in the autumn and winter of '91. Freed more than 2,200 km of square occupied territory of western Slavonia. We're talking about Bilogor, Papuk, Psunju and the city of Lipik. Different dates held in public and among historians were also discussed at the beginning of the war, or aggression in Croatia. For example, the confiscation of Croatian territorial defence weapons in May 1990. or the event in Knin on August 17, '90. Or in Pakrac on March 2, '91. when there was the first armed conflict. Or the bloody Easter on Plitvices on March 31st, when Josip Jovic was killed, the first Croatian defender to die. Given the above, I draw the opinion of academics Davorin Rudolph that according to international law, there is no open aggression in Croatia before the Parliament is on 25 June '91. I brought the Declaration of Independence. Of course, the anti-constitutional action, then the armed rebellion of the works of Serbs in Croatia, and at the same time preparations for defence, began by setting up courses for training of police officers known as the first Croatian directors since 5 August '90. This period was also covered by the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. For historical and ethnic and geopolitical reasons, the centre is particularly interested in data on events in Bosnia and Herzegovina since the 1990s, and particularly on the struggle of Croats for survival in the area and neighbouring state. In addition, at the strategic level, the territory of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be seen separately because during the Serbian aggression it was a unique battlefield. But it will take more time, mainly due to the level of orderliness and availability of materials for an objective and complete display of war in BiH and the role of Croats and Croatia in it. In doing so, it is important to consider key facts that are being ignored. Croatians' vote in a referendum on Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence, the participation of Croatian troops in the defence and release of Bosnia and Herzegovina together with Bosnia and Herzegovina's Army, Croatia's recognition of Bosnia and Herzegovina as an independent state immediately after the European Community countries did so, and the same day as the United States, which Serbia did not do until the end of the war. Accepting all proposals from the International Community on conflict resolution and the internal arrangement of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Neglecting these facts increases the negative perception of Croatia's role in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Accordingly, in making a historical assessment of the role and relationship of then-Croatian President Franjo Tuđman towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, his state moves should be at least as relevant as his thoughts and theoretical debates, which is persistently ignored and underestimated in part of literature or publicists. Of course, it cannot be left out of the fact that the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been an aggression against Croatia in 91, that Croatia was directly threatened from the same territory since 91, as well as that in one stage of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina there has been a tragic Croatian-Muslim conflict and crimes whose perpetrators are to be punished. There were unacceptable moves by Croatian extremists, but above all the causes of war, i.e. the responsibility of the Serbian leadership, the leadership of the Bosnian Serbs, JNA, should be taken into account for the start of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, only the scientific approach to the problem mentioned can objectively show the role of Croatia and Croatia's President Franjo Tuđman on the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in any case more objectively than ever before. In doing so, he warned them of documents collected by General Slobodan Praljak for his defence and could be said to defend Croatia before the International Court in The Hague. The Centre pays particular attention to publishing activities, I will not say that the Centre’s publications provide a final answer to the questions they speak, because many documents are not yet available, but I am responsible for saying that their content is based on credible sources. Among the 20 publications published by the Centre over the past 4 years are the most important books from the series "Republic of Croatia and Homeland War – Documents". The 7 books published documents of the Republika Srpska province covering the period from 90 to mid-93. The books 2, 4 and 6 were published in the co-breathing of the Croatian Institute of History,... for the history of Slavonia, Srijema and Baranja and Slavonski Brod. Work gatherings are dedicated to special topics, such as the Round Table Working Assembly Special Police of the Ministry of Interior, the Liberation Operation Storm was created in co-operation with the Homeland War Special Police Association. They highlight the various roles Croatian police officers, specialists played in the defence and victory of Croatia in the Homeland War, especially in Bled and Storm, perhaps the most important military operations in Croatia history. Zbornik, the city was targeted... by the work of Vukovar Hospital and the House of Retired during the siege talks about the aggression of Serbia and the JNA and the Serb-Montenegrin forces in the Republic of Croatia 91st and the occupation of Vukovar. The meeting is framed by the stories of Sinisha Glavasevic whose message and symbolism is remarkable, and it is dedicated to the people who defended Vukovar and defended Croatia. In the Book of Storm published by the Center in 2007 Dr. Davor Marijan speaks about the course and preparation of the operation in the Croatian Army, but also of the incidents and problems of non-sharp or unhonored behaviour of individual HV members, putting them in the context of the whole process and events. At the end of the book, senior archivist Mate Rupic prepared Serbian Party documents on false political and military events ahead of the storm that affected its launch. It's the content of so-called. Plan Z4 and statements by representatives of the International Community. The documents show that the Storm is the result of a long-standing process of failed negotiations with the leadership of the rebel Serbs on peaceful reintegration and ineffective moves by the International Community. They are a direct and reasoned answer to the question why in solving the problem of occupied territory of the Republic of Croatia the military option had no alternative, why the Croatian leadership could no longer delay the Storm, and finally who was responsible for going to the refugee of Croatian citizens of the Serbian people before and during the Storm. On the basis of the documents collected so far, it can be estimated from the historical point of view that Croatian commanders, including Generals Ante Gotovina and Mladen Markac, insisted in the preparation and implementation of Operation Storm on compliance with the provisions of the International War Law, and that the Storm was a legitimate liberation operation, not a joint criminal enterprise for ethnic cleansing of Serbs. The fact that, before the arrival of the Croatian forces in the occupied territory of the Republic of Croatia, several tens of thousands of Croatian citizens of the Serbian people left before the arrival of the Croatian forces, indeed, the tragedy of the Serbian people in Croatia. The tragedy is primarily responsible for the uncompromising policy of part of the leadership of the rebel Serbs in Croatia. The fact is that the Croatian government had no criminal intention but that after the Storm there were incidents involving the victims of Serbian civilians and burned houses, so the question of the efficiency of the establishment of order in the free area is raised. The photo monograph of the Storm of Victory, whose introduction pointed out that the release of Knin on August 5, 95 was due to the geopolitical but symbolic significance of that Croatian Kazakh city, deserved to be declared on August 5th Thanksgiving and victory in the Homeland War, and that the day with the pitetite should be remembered by the dead defenders and innocent victims of war regardless of what nationality and religion are. Although it is not about the plan of action, even in the days of pride and memory of the Storm, there is no need to keep quiet the incidents in which Serbian civilians were killed because facing the negative pages of their own past is a prerequisite for the individual's crime not to cloud the purity of the idea and the event itself. It must not happen that the winner is a moral loser. Supporting the principles that all perpetrators of crime should be punished, regardless of which parties they belonged, I point out that documents in the centre are available to all those working on this responsible job. I remind you that more than 140 mass graves in Croatia testify to the crimes of Serbian forces in the Homeland War and that many criminals have not yet been brought to justice. In line with that, the centre in co-operation with the Department of Prisons and Missing Defence is working on a full list of people killed in the Homeland War, which will soon be presented to the public. We owe it not only for drinking to each victim, but for preventing the manipulation of the number of victims as it seemed, unfortunately still seems, with victims 2. World War I. In the report, I also recorded the mention of the center and its work in the media. I am aware of the importance of working with the public media of informing the public about the work of the Centre, but it is not acceptable for sensationalist titles to be invented, and for authors to impose sentences that they did not say, so once again I ask for responsibility and accuracy in conveying statements, especially when it comes to sensitive topics such as the Homeland War. For example, an editorial title in Free Dalmatia since 21 November 2009. "Brammerc: I have the paperwork on shelling" by an inappropriate underpriced relationship with historical source and haughtiness, is completely different from the text in which I am justified, with the words of an appropriate scientific institution that I run, the Croatian public wanted to warn, the court in The Hague already knows that, however, the important document of the Serbian Army's headquarters on the topical action of the Croatian Army on Knin in the morning of 4 August 95. It is about intelligence that a brigade of the Serb armies has been sent to the Yugoslav Army's main headquarters in Belgrade at the Republika Srpska Army's headquarters in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And our centre has information that has received the 11th Infantry Brigade of the 21st Korduna Corps of the Serbian Army. I believe, in fact, I am sure that the shelling of Knin was excessive and not selective, this document speaks more clearly than any document of the Croatian side on which the International Criminal Court of The Hague insists. The document states that from the beginning of the attack to the writing of this information, from 5 to 10 a.m. on Knin, between 200 to 300 missiles of different calibers fell, and that the first blow was made to the Serbian Army headquarters building, and that it was later transferred to the barracks "thousands of 300 caplars", the Tvik factory, the railway hub, so all military facilities and residential buildings at the foot of the Knin Fortress where the residence of Mile Martic was located. Similar information is provided by Mark Vrcelj's books, who was then chief of artillery of the Serbian Army's Chief of Staff and General Milislav Sekulic, who was then head of the Department of Education and School of the Serbian Army. These are documents that I hold extremely important for understanding the whole story of so-called. "The cannon logs." In its work, the centre did not publicly comment on the inflation of incorrect allegations of the Homeland War in the media. However, according to the centre's tasks, and in order to inform the public or as it is said here in the Assembly for the correction of the wrong allegation, after the "Open" show on 10 September 2008, in a letter to the editorship, we noted that the rejection of Serbs from the Constitution is not the cause of the Serbian rebellion in Croatia, according to one of the guests of the show. Namely, Serbs are not expelled from the new Croatian Constitution, and historical sources clearly show that the terrorist action of Serbian extremists and the anti-constitutional policy of the works of Serbs in Croatia began before the draft new constitution was published. Of course, it was a plan for all Serbs to live in a country that could only be carried out by aggression. By letter we also responded to the scandalous show "Sunday in 2, since 27 September 2009 that after 1990 I quote "Tretina Serbs or killed, a third of Serbs were displaced, a third... and Pavelic was sleeping peacefully". And that, again, I quote, "Tudjman solved the question of Serbs the same as Hitler wanted to solve the question of Jews." Unfortunately, there were no comments or reactions on this statement in the media or on the very show in which it was said. In the report I mentioned a frequent tour of the terrain and the need to talk to direct participants of the Homeland War. Specially impressive were the gatherings in impossible weather and on a hard pass on the ground with MUP specialists at Velebit for the marking of Operation "Masslenica" and with defenders from Cetinska krajina at the top of the Magla at Dinara during the marking of Operation "Zima" in '94. While most Croatian citizens in a warm dream of independent Croatia and the release of occupied territory, they at the cost of their own lives and health realized those dreams. Only an immeasurable love for Croatia could motivate them to endure such extreme conditions. You can't forget that. I'll remind you of Operation Winter in '94. It started a series of operations and actions that the Croatian forces came close to Knin and created the conditions for a final victory in the "Storm" and the Homeland War. At the same time, the Croatian Army has made it possible to deblock or defend Bihać. The bishop was saved literally at the last minute and twice. The first time in the winter of '94, the second time in '95. ahead of the "Storms", because Serbian troops were at the entrance of the city, despite the UN Security Council's declaration by Bihac as a protected zone. It was also Srebrenica and Zepa, and we know what happened there. This has saved thousands of Muslims and Bosniaks and other peoples of Bihaq and the surrounding area who have already lost hope of salvation because of the impotence or indecision of the international community and the UN forces. Under such dramatic circumstances they asked for help and received from Croatia. In fact, Croatian soldiers did what the UN troops were supposed to do. They prevented Serb forces from taking up another protected zone in Bosnia and Herzegovina and from repeating the crime they committed in Srebrenica. The aforementioned liberation operations and actions towards Knin led the assembly area of Split under General Ante Gotovina's command. And finally, I would like to stress that precisely the arrangement of the materials and its availability is a prerequisite for an objective display of the Homeland War. At the same time, I will warn that the inaccessibility of the material that has been emerging recently as a problem in research opens up a space for manipulation and a selective display of events, so if scientific research makes it impossible or limits bureaucratic procedures, a serious debate will be needed. I would also like to point out that the review of the documents available from the 1990s points to the conclusion that the Homeland War is one of the most brilliant periods of Croatian history and that it is a generation that is in '91. managed to defend and then free Croatia, it belongs to a special place in Croatian history. Of course, Croatia was generally defended by Croats, but it must not be ignored that members of the national minorities in the defence of Croatia, because they participated in the participation of both Bosniaks and Muslims, Serbs, Hungarians, Czechs, Russians, Roma and citizens of other nationalities living in Croatia together. At the same time, it is noticeable that the relationship to the Homeland War in the media is not suitable for its importance and that many are not yet aware that in 1991 and 1995 they were the fateful years for Croatia and that the Homeland War is the foundation of the modern Croatian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48489	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. First Mr. Bagaric. You're on behalf of what committee? ... Well, you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48490	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee considered the report as an interested working body. The head of the Croatian-Documentation Centre of the Homeland War explained the part-round work of the centre, and stressed that it includes participation of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War. He stressed the importance of processing historical facts and buildings related to the contribution of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Croats and independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the defence of Croatia. In this context, the crucial role of the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina was highlighted in the process, which primarily includes the Declaration of Independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as their plebiscite support for Bosnia and Herzegovina as a sovereign and independent state in a referendum called on the basis of the mentioned declaration. It also stressed the importance of a factual demonstration of the contributions of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, both due to historical science and to the education of young generations through school textbooks. In order to objectively assess the work of the Croatian-Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, it is necessary to consider how much he has done with the law tasked him with the task, collecting, sorting and keeping, and professional and scientific research and publication of materials from the Homeland War. The report shows that the centre intensively collects and arranges archival material, collects and arranges materials from other sources that are of particular importance for understanding events in the Homeland War because it speaks of preparations for the start and course of attacks by the Yugoslav Army and the Serb forces in Croatia and testifies to the Serbian leadership's intention to retain power in the occupied territory of the Croatian state and the procedures that led to the acquisition of part of its territory to Serbia. Many of the gatherings that the centre is an organizer or co-organizer are aimed at the scientific processing of events from the Homeland War. This serves to create a library of the Homeland War, or collection of books on the subject. Although significant literature on the Homeland War has already been collected, work should be continued and literature collected outside Croatia. At the meetings organised by the centre, the scientific speeches and direct participants of the event talk about so that they can supplement or explain with their memory the contents of certain documents that were produced during the period under discussion. These gatherings were public and could be attended by all interested citizens, so the centre completed the task of presenting events from the Homeland War to the public. The centre was the organizer or co-organizer of several exhibitions of which should highlight the participation of the centre in the preparation of materials for the exhibition in Vukovar, the place of memory of Vukovar Hospital in 1991 and the exhibition in Knin dedicated to the 10th anniversary of the release of military redistribution operation "Storm". The centre co-operates with the MORH Military Museum and other museums for better and more frequent presentations from the Homeland War which should especially be adapted to younger ages so that young people can understand what happened in Croatia in the early 1990s. In his work so far, the centre highlighted 18 valuable publications about the Homeland War of Collections of documents, photographs, scientific studies. The report on the work of the Centre so far stated that in the last two years the Agency for Education and Education has been conducting a seminar on the Homeland War for teachers of primary and secondary school history. Teachers who transmit facts from the Homeland War at the seminar are familiar with the necessary literature and have the opportunity to hear the lectures of direct participants of the event. History teachers also have the opportunity to speak arguments on the basis of documents and to give as objective a view of this period of history as possible. In the discussion, the board members supported the centre in view of how difficult it is to get to the building that the centre collects. The Committee appreciates the fact that the centre is not only at academic level, but is trying to present to the general public what is objective in the reality of the Homeland War so far has been increasingly trendy and misrepresented, especially when it comes to the contribution of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to the defence of the Republic of Croatia. The board members believe that the centre needs to be expanded and more co-operation with those who deal with this problem beyond the Republic of Croatia. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion on the adoption of the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War from its draft to 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48491	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48492	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament considered this report on 9 December 2009. The Committee is then also familiar with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 26 November 2009 which is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept this report. The Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War was founded as a public scientific institution or specialized archive with the task of collecting, fixing, preserving and professional and scientific research and publishing materials from the Homeland War. The report is very extensive and documented to the extreme details of the organisation and operation of the centre. Thus, data on the scope of the funds according to archive standards are provided, then the total publishing activity of the centre by titles, all exhibitions organised by the centre and the scope and mode of action, cooperation with users, the building of which is stored and processed by the centre, which are scientific and research institutions and individuals, the authorities of the state and the administration, and legal persons and citizens who, for various reasons, need the documentation of the centre including defenders indicted before the Hague Criminal Court. The report lists not only the organisational structure but also the number of employees and their qualification structure. All data, all archive funds that have been collected so far, their scope and technical form of writing, electronic photographs and other. However, we do not learn enough from the report about issues and potential difficulties in obtaining different forms of archival building, in view of the holders and what is commonly learned in the public. The debate passed in the light of the fact that it was the first such report from the centre since its establishment. For this very reason, we were all in favour of accepting this report without clearly using the observations in the future to make the reports more quality and comprehensive. For example, the lack of financial indicators from the centre has been explained by the rapporteurs by the information that the report on financial operations is submitted each year to the Ministry of Culture. At the request of the participants in the debate, the rapporteur took the commitment to the Croatian Parliament to provide a summary of the current financial reports that colleagues and colleagues have done. The rapporteur's representative then expressed dissatisfaction with the lack of media monitoring of the centre and even public national television even when it comes to annual presentations of the centre's work, especially on ongoing business. After the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War since its draft year 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48493	Thank you. A representative of the government? He doesn't want any further explanation. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48494	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Director of the Memorial Center with an associate, colleague and colleague. In 2004, the Law on the Croatian Memorial Centre of the Homeland War was adopted and was established as a public scientific institution established as a specialized archive of interest for the Republic of Croatia. In its basic task, the Centre collects, unites, arranges and protects all documentation, archival structure and all other data created in the Homeland War or are related to it. The centre also organises professional and scientific lectures, appropriate exhibitions, scientific gatherings and other forms of research, the truth about the Homeland War and familiarizes the public in the country and the world with established facts related to war events. Given the defensive and liberating character of the Homeland War, Croatia had many reasons to show the period between 1989 and 1995 as objectively as possible. The Homeland War as an extremely important period of Croatia's latest history certainly requires detailed scientific research. The Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War was founded with this aim. The founder of the centre is the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and responsibilities of the founders are performed by the Ministry of Culture under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. According to the law, a report on work and business is submitted by the Director of the Centre to the Minister of Culture, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. Here today, in the fifth year after the establishment, we have received the first report on the work of the centre in the past period and a supplemental report on financial operations. The reports are very exhaustive and I am not going to repeat the data on the action of the centre, we heard them in the introduction of Mr. Director, but I will point out what we lack in the HNS or should further explain. For example, the report on the work does not mention the difficulties and problems that followed the work of the centre in the past period, and today we have heard in the report of Mr. Director that there are. Problems and difficulties usually leave unworked parts of the planned tasks. We should like and should know the work plans for the next period, because, of course, according to the planned activities, they plan and approve financial resources. The financial report shows that the total expenditures from 2006 to 2008 have continued to grow, primarily due to an increase in the number of employees. It started with three, and the report said financially that there were 20. Today we heard from Mr. Director that there are 18 of them, but I guess that's based on certain hours of work. At the same time, approved programmes from the Ministry of Culture were followed unfortunately by a falling financial sequence. Why is that? There, with these remarks is a question. The representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support this proposed report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48495	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48496	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Director, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. First, does Croatia need one such centre? It's absolutely fine. Many of the government agencies we have are probably not necessary. Here's yesterday I read somewhere or heard about one piece of information that we have as many as 700 government agencies. I'm sure no one, no one who runs the government, no one who runs the Parliament, and we just don't know all those names here. But let's put them aside now. Is one of these centers in Croatia necessary? I personally consider that. Finally, many countries have similar centres, meaning it is not Croatian innovation. I was in Washington, I was in London, and I know how, I know, I saw how it was organized. Clearly, Croatia is neither America nor England, on the side that those in the second half of the '40s, the '50s sang that both America and England would be a land of proletarians, let's play a joke now. But you know what's wrong with this report? First, what must be most valuable when it comes to this centre, which is this publishing activity. And it is either for her we are in 2006 or the center has singled out 445 thousand kuna, 2007. 350 thousand kuna, 2008 only 220 thousand kuna. On the other hand, the cost of the centre according to these data is increasing rapidly, 2006. 2 million 409 thousand kuna, 2007. 3 million 182 thousand kuna, and in 2008. 3 million 521 thousand kuna. Someone might say that when it comes to the Homeland War it's all said, told, written so we don't need any new publishing activity, but I think exactly the opposite. Maybe we don't need new employment, maybe we don't need new, bigger budgets at this time of crisis, but we certainly need a strong publishing activity to draw attention to that period today. Speaking of employment, the centre had three employees on 31.12.2005, it is clear that three employees cannot be managed by one such institution. 31.12.2007. at the centre of work of 18 workers, in 2008, we have 20 employees, and I am sure that the number of employees in 2009 has also increased. And now, while it's a normal thing to reduce the number of employees in both industry and trade and fisheries, agriculture, where everything is not, road construction because there are no investments here and here as well as in the state administration, new employment is growing rapidly. So, in 2005, three employees, 2008. 20 employees. On the other hand, our publishing activity is almost shut down, employees are employed and costs are raised from 2.4 million kuna in 2006 to 3.5 million kuna in 2008. Why do we need such a center as the land? So among other things, it is said here, when we have these financial reports, that the centre is carrying out the following activities and I quote: "it collects archival structures from the Homeland War by ransom, gift, deposit; it takes and arranges professional and scientific processing; it analyzes and values and protects archives etc. materials; they combine and present documentation on the Homeland War; they issue, verify documents; they make and unite information aids; they provide for the use of archival material; they carry out expert supervision of the protection of archive material" etc., etc., organize gatherings and everything else. But we certainly need one such centre, I think, to be here in this time of crisis, so perhaps even in the liquids of the Homeland War we can motivate, what I know is to somehow run that one accumulated inner energy of our citizens, that Croatia is homogenized, that Croatia is launched, that citizens do not know the opposite of injustice, that they are brought into something new, that they are faced with temptations, and that is this economic, social really where it will be worse than better, and in which I do not know the answer does not seem to be given by the government, nor by the Pantochkat at least until now, as it agrees, we will see. I know that Croatia will not run, it will fight for itself. The answer to how the country can be run can be given first of all by the Parliament, but this House is not asked. And until we strengthen the Parliament, until the MPs are elected directly, we will only sink. And finally, who carries the development of every country. They carry these small companies, and they are probably asked as well as the Parliament, and therefore they should be included in some institutes to help run the country. But let me go back to this center now. We have one such centre already told you for sure and what is the biggest problem in my court, too bad, one such centre is not located in Vukovar, that city hero where there's still a lot of work to be done to make the city and rebuild, to hire people. And finally the story of the Homeland War I claim more credible will tell us a Vukovar than Zagreb or what I know about my Buzet, regardless of the response to the mobilization calls in Buzet was almost 90%, and in the midst where most heroes are, I clearly don't think of Vukovar and the war killed areas far, far less. Why did I answer the other word? Even to say that Croatia must and such institutes should show an example of politic development and such institutes or centres should begin to dislocate outside Zagreb. It is not good for gentlemen to push everything into this city, think about it, because centralization disintegrates, decentralisation integrates Croatia. On Saturday I read an article in "The Morning List" how Dalmatia reacts I do not know about this concentration of power, money in one center, and I assure you other than Zagreb with the nearest surroundings here I think of Varazdin, Istria everything in this country will kneel, if not already, economically clear. And that is why this centre should also be outside of Zagreb, outside Marulić's square where it is located today and such a single centre should be found in one Vukovar. There's room for it, there's room for it in Vukovar and a place. I also want to believe that the defense register will be published. It's not the center's job. It's the government's. It can only be done with one click if you would simply contact those behind the defense funds. There's your data, so let's get it done. Someone will say that even Americans don't declare military ways to their troops. That's the same thing. Why? Because Americans don't know the last hundred years, they've been at war outside America, not in America, so all of their wars aren't always defensive. But if we stand today at the stand that leaving, for example, Croatian soldiers in BiH was justified, I don't know why we don't publish what all the citizens of this country are expecting, and something between the lines was said by the director of this centre. Of course I have some reservations until the war in BiH. Understandably, the problem in a series of privileges that those individuals abuse, and because of political peace, that or that will not work. But for the end, I'm going to say once again that we need the center. Do you need 20, 18, 17 employees? I mean, that's less important. It is necessary to increase this publishing activity, through HRT television it is no longer important to talk about that period, or about that of World War II, so that it never happens to anyone again, let alone some advisers to sleep with Pavelic's picture. I do all I can to make sure that those who performed under that picture don't perform and sing in Istria, who greet "for a home ready," and now we see that somewhere else they can. But good now. And finally, the centre should be delegated from Zagreb to Vukovar. Why? For his historical debt to this city, his fighters for the truth, the memory of those who must stand up for the real truth about this war. The director also talked about "Storm", he talks about Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. At one point, he said to collect documents or give which he was involved under quotes in the defence of Generals in the Den Hague. The clear center doesn't defend generals, it gives defense materials. It's absolutely okay, okay. These people need help, but they should also talk about what happened after the Storm, which may be why they are being persecuted today, as one sentence and the director mentioned, and I say that all of this could have been prevented after the Storm. On the other hand, we heard praises about the participation of the Croatian army in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Be objective, let's not defend anyone so they don't turn into one party unless I tell the HDZ Center. But you mentioned extremists. I have exactly written in BiH Croatian nationality, and you have said a tragic war with which I agree with the Croats and Bosniaks in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The clear "storm" was absolutely legitimate, the war was imposed on Croatia. Croatia was in one defensive war. I need to be objective on the other hand, talk about the legitimacy of the defense, because if it hadn't worked, I don't think there'd be a state today, either, but there were some crimes after Storm. Those who bloodied their hands should be punished should be sanctioned whether it is Serbs, whether it is Croats if it is not possible to amnesty them. But also do everything to get the refugees back, to rebuild today, etc. etc. It's clear, and that might be the point of why we need one of these centers. It wouldn't be good, it shouldn't happen to us, it won't happen to us that The Hague, that Carla Del Ponte, Brammartz, if I'm not mistaken, write us history. That's why he needs one of those centers. But the work will be successful, historically justified only if we admit to ourselves that each medal has two ends. I repeat again Croatia was a victim of aggression, the storm" was legitimate, there must be no fabrication of history. I agree, as the director said, that Serbs were instrumentalised in this large-serb Milosevic's ideology, which has brought them the greatest damage in history in those areas. What's not good for us is that crime after "Storm," arson, that's also what we need to talk about. And that we're not talking about some other Zec family moments, some uniforms or something. But it is certain that the Homeland War is the most valuable thing that has marked us in the '90s, because without his success, there would be no State. As much as the IDS club will absolutely support the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War from 2005 to 2009, I am talking about this financial report and other data. And what I would personally care about is how many employees there are today and why there is a fall in publishing activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48497	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48498	Thank you, Mr. President. So counterpart Cain incorrectly stated that there are over 700 state and government agencies in Croatia. Perhaps a colleague of Cain’s was wrong, of course, perhaps Cain was referring to tourist agencies operating in all major cities and environments. But there's one good thing about showing fellow Caine, that a little bit in his singing, he's progressed, now he's not just singing those traditional songs as in the woods and mountains, but now he's spreading his singing to America and England. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48499	That's commenting on his opinion. We have another correction, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48500	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just one incorrect allegation, among all the other inaccuracies that are mentioned, which is that in Istria... since he was responding in Buzet, exactly... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] of 180% invited,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 'Cause half of them picked up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's true and that's true, and you can check it out. Do not boast about what is not true and what is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48501	Thank you. We have an announcement. A session of the Health and Social Care Committee, scheduled today at 14:30 p.m. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48502	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Director of the Centre, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Homeland War was defensive and liberating, according to the Croatian Parliament's Declaration of Homeland War. However, some of the events that took place during that period in part of the public still have certain doubts, and the truth about its heroes and victims is overshadowed by some unobstructed displays and interpretations. It is therefore also of great importance the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. This public scientific institution, which is a specialized archive, was founded precisely to collect, arrange, preserve and professional and scientific research and publish materials from the Homeland War. This period needs to be shown as objectively as possible to preserve the truth for the future, as indicated in this report, which we are discussing the date of the centre's work on March 2nd, because on that day of 1991, there was the first major armed conflict between the Croatian police and Serbian terrorists in the Republic of Croatia. For objective and scientific delivery of facts as well as a complete display of the Homeland War, with objective scientific and research work, it is undoubtedly necessary to edit and preserve available material. As a result, the center began to create its own library on the Homeland War. In addition, care shall also be taken of professional and scientific training of employees to whom the centre covers the costs of the doctoral study. It is evident from these efforts that the institution intends to continue to develop into a significant scientific institution for the research of the Homeland War. It is also commendable that in order to achieve the greatest objectivity of research, the centre points its employees to the field where the events they want to explore took place and is introduced to direct participants. On the other hand, by organising more than 20 expert public hearings and lectures on certain events from the Homeland War, then exhibitions and promotions of their publications, and by participating in scientific and professional gatherings, the centre contributes to better informing the professional but also the general public about this most significant period of recent Croatian history. The satisfaction should also be expressed by publishing activities of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, which has been published in just over 3 years since 18 books and photographs were established. This material is of paramount importance for understanding what happened in this space in the 1990s and has led to open aggression in Croatia. Such material is important because the collected documents show who is, why and in whose interest the war has begun, and therefore the role of such an institution that takes care of its collection, processing, publication and preservation is of particular importance. Along with a series of documentaries, the centre also launched a series of Republic of Croatia and Homeland War '90-'95. the memory material, with statements, records, studies, and other works of the participants of the Homeland War, which the report warns that the subjective impression of the exhibitor may not have such objectivity as documents. However, it is of great importance to preserve their memories in order to collect less known facts, but also to gain an impression of how they have thought and acted in certain situations, which official documents cannot convey in any way. It is important to preserve the feelings of volunteers, their impression of the war of everyday life because they participated in the Homeland War, fought and died, but also defeated real people, parents, children, spouses, grandchildren, friends or neighbors. In this respect, it is of paramount importance to avoid the trap of criticism and bias, and it is also necessary to discuss the problems of the dishonest behaviour of some members of the Croatian Army. And there must be no silence in the incidents in which Serb civilians were killed so that the individual's crime does not blacken the entire picture of the Homeland War. historian Davor Marjan, in the book "Storm" published by the centre in late 2007, commented on the issue of the rebel Serbs who left the occupied area and concluded that the Croatian Operation "Storm" did not conduct ethnic cleansing, and documents that clearly depict political and military events ahead of the operation that affected them to be turned around proved that the military option was the only possible choice. The documents also show who is responsible for going to the refugee of Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality ahead of and during the "Storm", thus proving that the historically unfounded claims that the Croatian summit had driven Serbs out of the so-called "Storm". Krajina and spent ethnic cleansing and that the Croatian authorities are not responsible for their departure. In a situation where Croatian generals are tried at the International Court of War Crimes for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague, it is of paramount importance that such an archival building exists that can shed light on some of the persuasive events and assist in their defence. For the purpose of obtaining a full list of victims of the Homeland War, the centre enters into its database the data of those killed in the Homeland War in the occupied area of the Republic of Croatia. The name list of all those killed in the Homeland War, honoring the victims of war, will also prevent manipulations with the number of deaths. In fact, we have witnessed that so far in our modern history, it has often manipulated itself with the number of deaths. It is also necessary to highlight the work of the centre related to the occupation of Vukovar in 1991. A memoirs were also collected about the work of Vukovar Hospital and the House of Retired during the siege. Especially should the release of the '91 Vukovar DVD be commended. which was shared on November 18, 2007 on the occasion of the Memorial Day on the victims of Vukovar with the "Evening List" for which the text was written by the director of the centre. In fact, in May 2008, this DVD won the world's highest news prize, each year awarded by the world's largest news organization to gather 82-nation news companies and 1200 world-leading newspapers. The Vukovar story beats the works from 40 countries and more than 400 major daily newspapers in the world, and the release of the DVD "Vukovar 1991." In addition to the newspaper it was declared a press publishing venture of the year in the world. At the recommendation of advisory bodies, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports decided to become an auxiliary teaching tool for students to learn about the events in Vukovar in 1991. In conclusion, I would like to say that the discovery of the truth about the Homeland War is in the interest of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that requires a dedicated and professional work on the collection, processing, publication and storage of materials. This report shows that the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is doing this in a satisfactory way. It would be better if we had a chance to discuss the annual report. This is how we have been discussing the period since the beginning of his work, but this report shows that during those few years, the center has been working on making the truth about the Homeland War more objectively seen and documented. In the end, I want to say that we must do everything in our power to explore and learn the real truth about the Homeland War. We owe it to all the victims as well as our fallen defenders, theirs and our children. Therefore, the HSS Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48503	Thank you. It is on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48504	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Here's a few words about this report. First and foremost, the Croatian Memorial-documentation Centre of the Homeland War carried out the law on his assignments relating to the collection, collection and storage of materials related to the Homeland War. It is certainly the first basic and most important activity. In addition, the professional and scientific processing of all the materials contained in the archives was certainly very important and responsible tasks of this institution. In that context, I would say, without any exaggeration, this institution headed by Dr. She has done an important thing in her mind, I will say again without exaggeration, a very important job in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, in the interest of our recent history and in the interest of all those generations to come. Keeping all relevant historical documents, their objective, scientific analysis is the responsibility of each serious and responsible state. Moreover, in these areas, this task is even more important. In the context of a statement I'm still holding in my head for a full few decades. Somewhere in the early 1970s, at a time of strong political turmoil and turbulence in these areas, during the time of Croatian Spring, a prominent Croatian academic pointed out the following quote: "Nothing changes as quickly as our recent history." I was surprised then, is that possible? Could history as a series of objective events be changed? And I remembered that statement he made a few decades later after the Homeland War ended. Yes, indeed serious political turbulence and turmoil, and at that time they had a powerful influence on attempts to interpret our recent history in some ways in ways that may be acceptable in some political context. And very recently, I came across a similar document issued by the US Foreign Ministry, declassifying Dayton's secret documents entitled "Secret History of Dayton – the role of American diplomacy in the war in BiH" in which the introduction says, each paper on historical events is not just a judgment on the past, but it is also a reflection of the times and periods when these assessments are being made. It's a fact that also surprised me, which means about next. Historical research is therefore not only a formal chronological review of some events but at the same time a reflection of the times during which they were conducted, and therefore it was not surprising when large political dilemmas and enigma appeared in Croatia, aggressor whether there was or not there, a war of aggression or civil war. In this context of such a relationship with our recent history I would say the role of this institution is of paramount importance, not only for Croatian history, for the Croatian state I would also say for peace and stability in these areas in the long term, it is also a responsibility and therefore I think that every analysis, the submission of regular reports on the work of this institution to the Croatian Assembly is in our common interest. Speaking at the Croatian Parliament exactly 23. Nine. In 2004, when the draft law on the Croatian Memorial Centre of Homeland War was on the agenda, I pointed out the following, only the only responsible and professional processing of our recent history is the task that should be very important, not only for all institutions but also for the Memorial centre. Professional, responsible and quality processing of our recent history is a common interest. Since very often from different periods of forgetfulness factors characteristic of each individual, but a forgetting factor that is very often characteristic and organised mode of action and relationships to certain events can cause what I said at the beginning. Nothing in these areas changes as quickly as our recent history, and in this context, the responsibility of this institution and everything it has done in the past five years is extremely important. It is also important that young scientific money participates in the work of these institutions, that this project encourages and co-finances not only the Ministry of Culture but also the Ministry of Science, and that some young people on these topics will professionally, responsibly Doctorate, and that it will be those people who will be able to speak scientifically, objectively, independently for generations that come about our recent past in the period 91 to 95. Speaking then of the memorial center, I have pointed out another fact that I want to stress today and that we must insist on. Not only the making of a doctorate, not just the publication, not just seminars, not just symposiums, but very important publication, serious, quality works, about this period of our recent history in the reference international, foreign bulletins and magazines. And I'm going to tell you that it's not a bit simple or easy, in 2000, I completed one work with several of my colleagues, not only from the Republic of Croatia but also from America, a lesson learned in the period of the Homeland War 91. 95th and we sent this paper to the review, and then we realized that the publication of scientific papers in this area is very important and I encourage the Centre to insist in this respect, if you even want to do the CC publications, because this contribution to our recent history has to be very accessible to both libraries and reference institutions and in London and Paris and Washington, because let's be sure when one day in 10, or 20 years there is a doctorate and research on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, during the period 91 to 95 then exclusively and only certain references and certain magazines and magazines come into consideration that they could be referred to and that they could be looked back at. In any case, an important part of the work that has been done very well and very responsiblely, the Homeland War Memorial centre refers to the collection and assembly of an archival building that comes from Serbian sources, this whole review of all these events, I would say, gives special authenticity and special objectivity. The beginning, and the course of the attack on the JNA and Serbian forces, does not testify to the Republic of Croatia in these documents on the scales of the Serbian leadership's intention to retain power in the occupied areas of the Croatian state and the procedures that have been conducted with regard to the accession of these parts of the Republic of Croatia to Serbia. Those documents are very important. The numerous gatherings organized by the Centre or co-organized by the Homeland War are also important. At these meetings, historians, scientists spoke, but it is also important to point out that at these meetings they spoke directly to participants of these key events which were so that they could complete or explain to their memories the contents of certain documents created during that period and that is the ideal combination of which the quality of this work raises to the highest level. Historians, scientists, participants. It should certainly be pointed out that in his work so far, the centre has printed 18 valuable editions of the Homeland War, that the Centre has held a whole range of seminars that were directed and intended for teachers of the history of elementary and secondary schools. I was also personally involved in such a seminar a little less than a year ago in Sibenik where several 100 high school teachers participated, and I think it is also an important contribution. I would certainly suggest the following, in the future period of the operation, key operations of the Croatian Army deserve with full justification special attention but every war has other dimensions than those of the political ones, and I would say, perhaps the economic aspects deserve attention, economic considerations on the aggression that JNA led against the Republic of Croatia in 91. Attacks on energy plants, trafostations, transmission networks, economic facilities, etc. show that these were not cases of isolated events, but that it was part of an elaborate policy that had its political objectives, military objectives but very economic objectives. There is almost no city in the Republic of Croatia we are sitting in Sibenik, attacking the trafostation, attack on electrolysis, attack on electrolysis in Mostar etc. Therefore, this component of this war openly shows that it was a planned aggression with full support from artillery, air forces, etc. These are not the characteristics of any civil war. It's definitely something the Memorial Center could and should give special attention to. Furthermore, it seems to me that in all the research so far, the role of JNA in that war in '91. '95. She didn't have the right place. The war on the former state premises was imposed by JNA and its political sponsors, ideologists. You can see that and it's obvious from a whole series of documents. It was a war that could not be avoided and that JNA carefully and long prepared. And these are also important facts that follow from a careful study of all documents that the Memorial Center has made available. And in the end, I'm going to say one thing and quote the statement of the man who started the war. I'll quote that as a personal witness to that statement. In 1990, the federal minister of the former state, General Kadjevic, says, "All those who think we will not openly oppose democratic changes in Croatia and Slovenia that threaten Yugoslavia are wrongly wronged. JNA will defend all forces the leading role of the Alliance of the Communists of Yugoslavia in the Yugoslav society, and all those who think through some democratic changes endanger the unity of Yugoslavia can hang their ideas on the tail." It was an announcement of the war of the federal secretary general of the former army and it was a key historic moment that was almost forgotten, nowhere pointed. And today in The Hague, there is a whole series of people who have opposed this aggressive behavior of JNA. Where is General Kadjevic today? The whole series still has interesting topics that deserve the work of the Memorial Centre in the next period. And therefore the HDZ Club accepts and supports this report. Especially in future work. Certainly the political, scientific, educational aspects of this work deserve a special backdrop. And as I said, I will reward in the end, the publication of key parts of our recent history in both English and German, and in French because these truths and these facts must be made available both to the international public and to all the reference international institutions from which some new generations will tomorrow... and conclude the truth in those premises in the period of '91. '95. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48505	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the clubs. Representative of the SDP club, distinguished representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48506	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The SDP joins the support of this report and also most of what has been said here in this regard, with relevant comments concerning, above all, further development of the activities of this centre. Namely, in the very contents of the center he was defined in the title double, in fact as a documentary and as a memorial. These are two functions that he still needs to hold, but surely that what may be and most important, it will be the contribution that the centre will make in the research and historical sense of establishing an adequate awareness of the Homeland War, the continuity of certain knowledge and the availability of those knowledge of the Homeland War that we will need in the future because Croatia as a country is still a young country and its birthplace will cause always certain polemics as to those who think of it differently, as well as those who think of it in principle the same way, but put different accents. This is a very important institute and this institute is good to support all parties in this House as well as to report it. That's the first report. And perhaps such reports could also follow up on previous discussions that would be organised and that would in some way create one preparation in public acceptance of such a report. The report is simple to accept, but the debate on how the report and the work itself become an integral part of political consciousness to the extent that it is necessary when it comes to the Homeland War is already harder. I would point out one difference that is very important and should be kept in mind when it comes to the Homeland War. There's a strange anomaly. The anomaly consists of the following. Homeland war is the first war in the history of the Croatian people in which all components of the Croatian people participated on the same side. And interestingly, he was not contentious to anyone, and as time goes on and on, more and more elements appear that come from the margin, but which greatly question a whole series of elements and even the very valuable elements of the Homeland War itself. It is paradoxical that our divisions that we feel here today are more connected to those divisions that were in World War II that today we speak as if it were yesterday, that there are some smaller numbers among them, but some are accused of those alternatives that were present at the same time, while the Homeland War remains on one side of the sacred place and on the other side of the place from which it does not correspond to a whole series of relativization and a whole series of remarks that come primarily from the media, which come as a consequence of different interests and different political views on Croatia itself or within Croatia itself. So the colleagues working on this job have this strange situation, that they're actually exploring an area around which there were in principle no objections, no one to say the elements that would question it, and on the other hand, that more and more opinions are emerging today that need to be challenged in some way. I'll say maybe something that seems to be missing, but if I don't guess exactly because I may not be at all the best in the world, then I'm asking for my correction and for my forgiveness. In fact, we don't have to this day a strong serious synthesis in the historical sense of the Homeland War. We have a lot of individual books, studies, presentations, analysis of this kind or that kind but I don't know that there's one book or if there's something similar that's not present. I suppose it would have come to me because I am interested in this type of question, which would have been sufficiently worked out and strongly documented, sufficiently investigated to be able to represent a synthesis that would then answer some of the questions that were heard here today from colleagues. Since I personally had the opportunity to participate in the creation of such a paradigm when even the term Homeland War itself was not valid as a term. In fact, he's been infuriating himself by me or by my knowledge only somewhere in the second half of the 1990s. It was about different terms, it was even a controversy whether it should be used for these events the concept of Homeland War or some other but it prevailed that term and I think it's good. And I remember that one great article that was then written for one encyclopedia, I'm not going to talk about that now, not something else, that is actually the only approach left to date, which in a relatively short space passes through all elements of political, military, international, internal, social, from the point of view of war damage, from the point of view of cause, etc., is all of these elements of the Homeland War. That is why it seems to me to welcome the orientation of colleagues from the centre to primarily go through a scientific and research approach, through numerous articles and counselling, conferences, etc. to paint all of those aspects that can serve something to then place an emphasis on making it possible, in due course, to obtain an appropriate synthesis of the Homeland War that might exist, which could in some way represent a reliable book to which those who from different versions of what political, who participate in debates about the Homeland War can be invited. So, the SDP joins in supporting this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48507	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48508	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director of the Memorial Documentation Center with an associate, colleague and colleague. Mr. Nazor, director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, explained the part-round work of the centre and stressed the importance of this with regard to historical facts and buildings relating to the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia. For us, for an objective assessment of the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, it is necessary to consider how much he has fulfilled his law of the assignment, collection, collection, storage and professional and scientific research and publication of the Homeland War building. A few words about these tasks. The report shows that the centre collects and arranges archive material intensively. There are also numerous gatherings the centre of which is an organizer and co-organizer and aimed at the scientific processing of events from the Homeland War. This also serves to create a library of the Homeland War, or collection of a whole series of books that speak of this issue. Although significant literature about the Homeland War has already been collected, of course, it is necessary to continue to collect in one place all known literature. At the meetings organised by the centre, scientists also speak about direct participants of events, including Croatian defenders, military and police commanders, so that they can complete or explain the content of certain documents or events created during the period of discussion. These gatherings are public and can be attended by all interested citizens, so the centre has thus completed its task of presenting events from the Homeland War to the public. The centre was the organizer of a whole series of exhibitions with cities and municipalities and in cities that directly participated in war events as well as in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. The centre co-operates with the Ministry of Defence Military Museum of the Republic of Croatia and other museums for better and more frequent presentations of events and documents from the Homeland War which should especially be adapted to younger ages so that young people can understand what happened in Croatia in the early 1990s. In his work so far, he published 18 valuable publications about the Homeland War, a collection of documents, photographs, scientific studies. The report on the work of the centre so far stated that for the past two years, the Agency for Education and Cooperation has been conducting a seminar on the Homeland War for teachers of the history of primary and secondary schools. Teachers who carry facts from the Homeland War at seminars are familiar with the necessary literature and have the opportunity to hear the lectures of direct participants of events taught by our children. History teachers have the opportunity to speak arguments on the basis of documents and give as objective a view of this period of history as possible. All these are facts that confirm that the centre has completed its legal task. A few words and a contribution to the debate are here me personally as a volunteer of the Homeland War, the Mayor of Pakrac, can express the satisfaction that the centre, based on a scientific approach based on historical facts, confirmed that the Homeland War began on March 2, 1990 by attacking the police station in Pakrac. Here, these days, more precisely next week we mark the 20th anniversary of the event on Saturday and it is an opportunity to publicly invite all the boys, all the specials, all the Croatian volunteers who participated in those days in the defense of Pakrac, in the defense of the Republic of Croatia to attend on Saturday 6th March events and the solemn passing of winners who were traditionally prepared for that day in the town of Pakrac. Also, a little bit of dust history has been removed from the fact that the first freed city in 6.12.1991 was the city of Lipik, which was also after the military-redarative action "Otkos" the first large freed city in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I would like to suggest that the centre be allowed in some way to review the history textbooks in the section relating to the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia and for primary and secondary schools, because it is known that they have distorted data on the Homeland War in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to being treated on a minimal scale by the Homeland War, it is rarely supported by incorrect facts that our children receive from primary and secondary schools. I would like to thank the employees of the centre and the director of the centre on behalf of a whole series of municipalities and cities of the western Slavonian battlefield, from Okucan, Novska, Lipik, Pakrac, Sirača and to Daruvar, who are happy to respond, come along with us to mark the whole series of dates from this part of Croatian history from the Homeland War, hold professional stands and scientific and professional lectures and historical facts to support events that were both in this area and on this battlefield of our Republic of Croatia. As I know and always point out with pride, I come from the Western Slavonia, the towns of Pacrac and Lipik, one of the bloodiest battlefields in our homeland and I convey to you personally, Mr. Director and the great team at the Memorial-documentation center of the Homeland War thanks to all Croatian defenders, parents, women and children of the dead Croatian defenders for the truth, underlining the truth about the Homeland War you bring through your work at the Memorial-documentation centre. Of course, I support this report and wish you great success in your future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48509	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48510	Dear fellow Huška, in your discussion, you spoke about the contents that teachers give to children in schools, the need for these contents to be more extensive, to be more accurate, to be integrated with new knowledge, and I absolutely agree with you. However, I would like to warn you that it is the legal obligation of teachers to hand over content from the curriculum. The educational programme is brought by the minister of education. The high school curriculum hasn't changed since '92. In September of this year, Minister Fuchs disbanded the Couriculum Council, which was due to adopt a new programme. So the fact is, despite their professional training, despite all seminars, if the teacher does not teach the content of the program, it is not their responsibility to surrender what they teach and in that scale and manner and content that it is because it is the responsibility of someone else, specifically the Minister of Education who has not brought a new programme. The same thing applies to textbooks and the current law the content of textbooks actually reproduces the content of the curriculum, or curricula, and if it does not satisfy that condition it cannot even become a textbook. And it's not a textbook problem, it's a program that we don't have, which should be contained... for every textbook. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about it then we have to say where the real problem is, the problem is that we don't have a curricula, and the curriculum and the program specifically for high school dates back to '92. It's the responsibility of someone else, the Minister of Education, and not of teachers and teachers who teach in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48511	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48512	As far as I know, the minister does not write textbooks, but only prescribes a program that should be contained in the textbooks. In the chapter on the Homeland War, which was set out in the programme on the content of textbooks not written by teachers who handed it over or the minister who was to be, there are incorrect facts about the Homeland War. This program, so these textbooks, someone needs to be looked at. I think there is no more relevant institution and institution in the territory of the Republic of Croatia at this time than the Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War. And I also advocate this opportunity to make this programme that is related to the Homeland War more extensive, because it is the most brilliant, newest part of the history of the Republic of Croatia exactly the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48513	Thank you. And another replica, the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I would like to replicate with one sentence only, underlining and its observation, is in fact a very important segment in which at the center's proposal, and in cooperation with the education agency according to the approval of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports 2008, a seminar is held precisely for teachers of the history of secondary and primary schools, just like in Sibenik last year in April and that this is the right way to actually promote the truth about the Homeland War. And Mr. Nazor also hopes and is convinced that the quality of the seminars actually provides one would say tradition in training, definitely training we would say, teacher of the history of primary and secondary schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48515	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48516	Thank you. Key words throughout today's presentation are precisely the truth about the Homeland War, and this truth needs children from small legs, from kindergarten, from elementary school to high school, and the simplest way through regular learning history is to show, prove, tell and preach the truth about the Homeland War. We also try as representatives of local self-government units, we go to primary schools, we show documentary films, for example in my city, about the start of the Homeland War, about Dr. Schreter, about the military-redarative action "Blash". Our children know very well the local history of the Homeland War. There are mistakes generally about the Homeland War on History, about some facts that are not true, and thank God we have a Memorial-documentation centre that corrects these irregularities. It was founded in time, it wasn't too late and we'll have a history of the Homeland War in one place, under one roof that will all be able to study our future generations, and our children and our grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48517	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes at 11.04 p.m. We're continuing an individual debate. It is now up to the honourable representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Recalling that because of UN General Assembly Resolution of '74. The year that says in the first place that the aggressor is the one who declares war. In recent times, almost no one has declared war. Academic Rudolph spoke to the question why Croatia did not declare war when there was an actual war. In addition, the declaration of war on the force is also an international right of neutrality which the neutral states undertakes not to provide armed supplies to any party in the war. And Croatia was disarmed and had almost nothing to defend. We also know that JNA had previously disarmed, picked up everything from that territorial defence weapon and divided the villages into normal aggressors, rebel Serbs. The centre pays particular attention to publishing activities, which confirms that 18 books were printed in just over three years after the final establishment. Among the publications of the centre are extremely important books from the series Republic of Croatia and the Homeland War 1990-1995. Documents in the current 6 books published documents from the Republika Srpska province covering the period from '90 to '92. In books one, three and five documents were published by the actions of the Yugoslav People's Army and the paramilitary troops of the rebel Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. Documents from supporting authorities, political parties and other civil institutions established by the rebels with the aim of separating part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and its accession to the Republic of Serbia. In order to achieve the goal that all Serbs must live in one state, they were published in books two, four and six in co-breeding with the Croatian Institute for History of branches for the history of Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja. Then, it is important to understand what happened in Croatia in the 1990s because it clearly shows the goals of the great Serbian period, and for that period it can also be said that all Serbian policies for which the Serbian leadership and JNA in the 1990s have been organised, encouraged and operationally supported by the terrorism and armed rebellion of Serbs in Croatia, and then in the summer of '91. started an open aggression on Croatia. I will point out only that all Serbs did not want war, and when I speak, I am often convicted of why I speak. I have to say that I'm a witness to what happened in Vukovar and everything I'm saying, and all I can say is that from Mrksic, she was a sister in Vukovar, and her husband was a lawyer with me in the camp. So all Serbs are not equal, many did not want war, but they had to go by force. And that's why when I talk, I say what I saw, what I experienced. I have to say, there's just been a lot of talk about Vukovar. There's a Vukovar I have to say the Homeland War Memorial Center of Vukovar. We have, now I'm going to say what we have and we're working closely with the Homeland War Documentary Memorial Center and Dr. Nazor. It's a very good cooperation, and I really have to wish for that kind of cooperation. That's how there's co-operation between these two centers. The whole thing we can say is that when we finish, it's a simulation of the battlefield. The National War museum in Vukovar is otherwise in the military. Fire stations and weapons were created. Of course it's not in real scale and distance, but it's a school example of setting up a battlefield with all artillery and pz weapons, school-established positions, engineering devices. So it's shown a simulational but educational battlefield. We intend to enrich it with additional effects, sound and light, so that it becomes as interesting as possible. The Museum of Homeland War from the creation of the Croatian state to peaceful reintegration including injuries, destroyed cultural heritage, formation of the Armed Forces, military operations and defence. The museum would have a permanent setup that would chronically monitor events in Croatia from the 1990s to the 1990s and eighths. ... to process events related to the Homeland War in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the museum's composition, there'll be an info panel. Part of the space will be equipped to show life in the barracks. In that part there will be two bedrooms each with 40 beds so that students who come to the center will have a chance one day and night to live in a proper military manner. We intend to agree with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to hold a part of the practical teaching from the Homeland War. In this way, the military and military systems would draw closer to young people, and it would be a good opportunity to present a military call. A multi-functional building will look like a pine commercial. I have to tell you that I just found myself in a pine chamber that was 600 people, and there were 60 wounded somewhere. That night at the Bor's Commerc shelling, the smoke entered the premises, we had to take out the wounded, the children. There were also children for six months, somewhere and two, three years. The kids started crying, we went out into the field. One exit collapsed. There's still a second entrance if the second entrance goes down we're stuck there in the smoke and we're out in the field, we take out the wounded first. Already there were TVs from Belgrade, TV from Novi Sad, buses that were ready, women went first. They drove us about two kilometers away, etc. I must say, that night alone, a bus and wounded civilians and defenders disappeared from Bor's Chamber. It is the very building that will be a copy of Boro Komerca, which would be the centre of the information and documentation section. There will be room for phonetic, archival, photographic, film building, hemortics, library, and lecture hall and seminars. It will provide a lot of opportunities for quality study and availability of all relevant sources to gain full insight into the Homeland War. When we thought about civilians coming to the center, we were guided by the idea of the interaction of space and visitors. We intend that visitors who will come have an active relationship with all the content. A field of brigades from the Homeland War at the memorial centre will be presented and presented by all Croatian Army brigades. It's designed to build an alley of guard brigades and brigade parks, and all signs and markings of the Homeland War brigade will be exposed. The project was supported by all defence associations in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will also finance the entire project. I must say that a visitor of the Homeland War Memorial was offered a tour of the exhibition of the Battle of Vukovar memories of the Homeland War, a presentation of the idea solution of the future memorial center, a tour of the weapons used in the Homeland War, artillery, armored vehicles, aircraft, simulations of the battlefield and everything else. I must say and mention the hospital, that the hospital has been taken for one night by 261 wounded in Ovcara, that there is a museum in the hospital about the Homeland War and that it will still mention the Ovcara home, and I must say the same, and I must note that all our defenders of Vukovar, all those from all over Croatia were and who came from outside, I must really thank them for doing their best, but I must again cry out that those who have not found them, those families of the dead, and the biggest problem for those who have not yet found the family is still seeking and praying, and therefore once again my cry let them say where they are, even after 20 years, but that parents can only bring out candles and lay flowers. And that's why my cry is that no one's ever been convicted of a crime in Vukovar before. There were some I don't know the charges, but that until today nobody did, and... So Radic didn't kill... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48519	Thank you. Time. It is up to the honourable representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The honorary representative of Sunchana Glavak is still at work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48520	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director. The war of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, as a public scientific institution and a specialized archive in the period from its draft 2005 to 2009 deserves a high grade. During that period, important attention has been paid to the dedications of archival buildings, systematic field work, with cooperation with actors from the Homeland War. I won't go back to the details my predecessors already spoke of. The collected knowledge is presented through the publisher activities, professional seminars and symposiums and presentation exhibitions, lectures and media performances. I especially want to highlight the fact that this field work applies to the ends that were not directly affected by the Homeland War, and I think we need to make this particularly clear. A private library where all published materials have been collected has also been organised, thus achieving high international professional standards in the overall collection of materials on the Homeland War and its availability to the general public. This, of course, contributes to the creation of positive national memory and objective images of the events during the aggression on the Republic of Croatia. There is also a remarkable activity that we have heard about in the professional training of employees, which is also a prerequisite for professional work on socially sensitive work, of exceptional importance for our country. Teaming with professional young scientists the centre also gets a wide base for its even stronger promotion in society. The 18 editions of the Homeland War are important and important, and I would also like to point out once more the teacher’s education, or history professor, which should certainly be continued. Is this going to be included in some other way we'll see what my colleague Lugaric said earlier. But I believe there are still documents that are not there, and where they should be, and that is the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre. That is why I will also remind from this place of the law that we have, and invite all those who have or who have the documentation on the Homeland War to hand it over to the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre for the purpose of keeping, protecting and processing. I also remind her of a legal obligation, and perhaps some are emotionally or otherwise related to documents. I would also like to say that the Memorial-documentation Center of the Homeland War will take care of that and that, of course, they can always take pictures of the material. The Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War contributes to the knowledge and dissemination of the truth about the Homeland War, but also to what we must not forget with a lasting memory of all the participants and victims of the war. Based on the systematic monitoring of the work of this institution and the comprehensive report in question, I believe that the Croatian Memorial and documentation centre of the Homeland War has so far satisfied all social and professional expectations with the rational use of available funds. Congratulations to the director and, of course, to him and his team, I wish to continue my work successfully with the desire of course that the documents, once again, which are not where they should be to witness our collective memory, be in the right place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48521	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48522	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Director of the Centre, colleagues and colleagues. The main starting point for assessing the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is how much he has completed the legal tasks of collecting, fixing, preserving and professional and scientific research and publishing materials from the Homeland War. That report shows that the centre collects and arranges archive material intensively. In this case, it's Serbian material... which is of particular importance to understand the events in the Homeland War, as it speaks of preparations, beginning and the course of the Yugoslav Army and Serb forces attacks on Croatia, and testifies to the Serbian leadership's intention to retain power in the occupied territory of the Croatian state and the procedures that led to the acquisition of part of Serbia's territory. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in '91. In the years all Croatian occupied areas in these areas, the Croatian people experienced a great exodus, not only of the Croatian people, but of all the citizens of non-Serb ethnicity. Their homes were burned, occupied, and there was no return of that people until the '95 Storm. A year. It's important for the center, and it should be said that in '91. The year that the greatest exodus of the Croatian people happened. Many gatherings that the centre is an organizer or co-organizer show the centre's intention to take place from the Homeland War to scientific processing. This is evidenced by the creation of a library on the Homeland War, or collection of books on the subject. Because insight into the entire literature is also a prerequisite for objective and professional writing of history. Although significant literature on the Homeland War has already been collected, I believe that the number of books on this issue in the centre should be even greater and that the centre should step up its work on collecting literature on the Homeland War. Especially when it comes to titles published outside Croatia. It is important to point out that at meetings organised or co-organised by the centre, scientists also spoke of direct participants of events that were so that they were able to complete or explain with their memory the content of certain documents that were produced during the period of discussion. It is equally important to note that these gatherings were public, i.e. all interested citizens were able to attend them, to which the centre had completed and to give presentations of events from the Homeland War to the public. As regards the presentation of events from the Homeland War, the centre was the organizer of several exhibitions of which should especially highlight the participation of the centre in the preparation of materials for the exhibition in Vukovar "Place of Remembrance – Vukovar Hospital in '91.". And an exhibition in Knin dedicated to the 10th anniversary of the Liberation-War Order Operation Storm. In this regard, further cooperation with the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior and other museums is recommended at a better and more frequent presentation of the Homeland War events, which should especially be adapted to younger ages. So that young people can understand what happened in Croatia in the early 1990s. The report on the work of the centre so far stated that in the last 2 years, a seminar on the Homeland War for teachers of primary and secondary school history has been held in the organisation of the Education and Education Agency with professional cooperation with the centre. I keep this very important because it is the teachers who need to pass on facts from the Homeland War to children, and therefore such seminars are an opportunity to get acquainted with the necessary literature and that they hear the lecture of direct participants of events to tell their students. In that sense, the centre would recommend even better co-operation with schools and teachers of history. First of all, in the preparation of sources that can be used in the follow-up to allow teachers to speak reasonedly during this period of history, i.e. on the basis of documents so that children can get as objective a view of this period of history as possible. Without excelling or concealing some of the facts that we all aim at. Since my colleagues have spoken, so let's not repeat ourselves and I will shorten my debate, but in the end I will say that I am sorry that the chairman of the Veterans' War Committee and that the Veterans' War Committee did not discuss this issue at all today. That's what I'm sorry for, and here, it's important to know. Finally, I fully support the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War in 2005 to 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48523	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Manager. Given the defensive liberating character of the Homeland War, I believe that Croatia has the most reasons for the period between '90 and '95. to show what's more objective and thus to save the truth about our heroes for the future. The fact is that at this center it works 18,19,20 or maybe 40, experts, historians who can create an objective picture of the Homeland War during a short period of time. Namely, how to create a picture of the Homeland War if you do not review the archives of the army, what can be achieved, means the archives of the Republic of Yugoslavia, Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska and paramilitary troops from the Republic of Yugoslavia. When these archives and videos that have photos, when that archive we already have somewhere around 3300 boxes, it should be reviewed, classified, determined. So when it is done then our archive from the Croatian Defence Council of the Croatian Army can be taken for a certain period of time from a certain area and made comparisons. When we do that, we can only say that we have one objective picture of the Homeland War. On our part, so these are war logs, these are military orders from commanders who were issued on a daily basis, these are SIS reports, service reports... , sanity, photographs and war shots that have more or less all brigades that participated and choir areas and then can be made a good basis for writing textbooks, i.e. books, i.e. making films. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're aware today, I'm talking about one area that sheds tons of blood, that's what doctors at Slavonski Brod said, how much blood they gave to the Posavats and to all those who defended the Bosnian Posavina. To this day, people who simply write books have never been there. At least I've never seen them, even though I was the commander of 103 at first. Dervent brigades, then four. The Guard brigade was until '97. years in the Armed Forces. I've never seen these people before. The other day I was reading books that just had nothing to do with it. And as we have a rather short memory, last week's debate was about the Croats from BiH, where it was said that these people only applied to the Republic of Croatia because of some socialities, due to health, pension, some giving, and when they were giving blood, when blood was shed, tears, sweat, and when they were all expelled from these areas, and your center will surely one day announce what it means on May 22, '92. years for Bosnia and Herzegovina, we know what it means for Croatia. What is the meaning of the Split Agreement, which means the Washington Agreement and what we gave up in Dayton to get a full Croatia and get peace. I fully support you and certainly will support more resources and more employees every time. Perhaps it would be a good idea to move it to Vukovar, only so many experts to find it in one Vukovar or from Zagreb and all of Croatia there but mainly in order for the truth, the real truth of the Homeland War to know, you should be far more so that you can work faster, compare that documentation of the aggressors and us who defended our homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48525	Thank you. On the turn of the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also adhere to my colleagues who spoke affirmatively about the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre here and will personally look back at three important elements for me. So one is the one already mentioned by counterpart Krešimir Ćosic about the importance of publication and publication, the other is about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, especially about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and their contribution, and the third part I will touch and that is the component of this memorial because it remains so little unsaid for me. So, this Center is a public scientific institution that collects, archives, among other things, but which is still or equally important, because without these two, there would be no such third publishing or publishing works. We need to know here, and I have already said that here on behalf of the Club, my colleague Kreso Qosic said that without published, without published event or such knowledge we cannot take a step forward, we cannot show the truth at the end of the strings, we cannot learn some of the things we have in experience or can pass it on to others. Therefore, what has not been published is said, which is not actually published, and what has not been published in English and in relevant magazines in both the CC and others, but at least that they are in English, then it is certainly not relevant and it is not significant. Thus, it will not be evaluated to the extent to which it is valued if it is published in a scientific journal. Here in the report itself, it says that, one sentence as someone wrote, "Until cannons of rumbling, the museums are silent," which is a fact, but the fact is that scientists in this Homeland War, I would say, have not been silent. And I would like to highlight the contribution of those scientists in the medical section, and this is one occasion that we should give recognition to, the respects that they have made in publicising what was happening in the Homeland War and it concerns medical science. So, Croatia's medical journal is a magazine that has published far the most articles on this topic and in itself is in CC magazine and therefore his editor Mako Marusic and his wife Ana Marusic deserve respect as all our doctors, colleagues who have published a lot of papers on this topic and also based on these publications there were many quotes of these works in world literature. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that someone else, I'm not saying they didn't publish, I'm not saying they didn't write, I'm not saying there wasn't that kind of act, but my impression that they were lagging behind the doctor. Therefore, it is a pity that they no longer engage, and I think that this Centre and the opportunity for all those from other activities related to the Homeland War, from logistics to I don't know the different other issues, so the questions in the humanitarian field in general, that I can explore, that I can publish, that I can publish. I'm particularly convinced of the importance of publicity. So I'm just going to give you two examples. One refers to my personal experience as a witness in The Hague, when we actually announced during the war in Mostar, the International Community, or the UN and the International Red Cross that the hospital in Mostar on the West Coast wants to make available. Both Bosnia and Herzegovina's army for reasons because on the other hand, on the east side of Mostar was a really difficult situation when it comes to health care and that health care that was provided in the hospital there. Our intention was pure as tears. We wanted to put the hospital in a way that the International Red Cross would enter it to control its work and that the UN would make it external and that all the wounded, all the patients in one city would be brought to that one hospital, that it really would not be HVO or Army anymore, but that it would be a hospital for everyone and for everyone and that in fact it would be as much easier to do war in the city where they were, unfortunately it wasn't just a picture of Mostar that was a picture of the entire battlefield in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There was no answer, you understand, regardless of the difficult situation on the east side of Mostar there was no answer on the other side or desire to do so. Some international institutions have come to us and told us that this is a good proposal but that it is implemented. My argument was that it was highly enforceable and the fact that the surgery on the front line is operated every day and that doctors of different nationalities are working in it, that they operate on different people in terms of both nationality and membership of existence, etc., but there was no answer. Later, Richard Horton, editor of Lancet, came and published a paper entitled “Imprints on war in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina” where he literally put our proposal to put the hospital in Mostar at the disposal of everyone and thus mitigated the horrors of war in Mostar and actually commented and spoke about the weakness of international humanitarian law so that in fact international humanitarian law did not progress in accordance with the war technique, because that progress would then come to a solution for such cases and for such situations and he published it in Lancet under this name that I am talking about. When I was later a witness in The Hague, then the document was one of the documents that was important to which they paid attention not only to lawyers but also to judges in The Hague and to which they spoke, and then I actually became convinced of the other documents that were available there that actually people in the International Community had given great importance to one such document, however, there was no response from the Muslim-Bosnian side. Why wasn't it this time? I repeat the publication, the publication is important not only for us to achieve and show our truth about what was happening in Croatia, what was happening in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also to show what was not good and that we never want anywhere to happen again. However, also because of the overall humanitarian knowledge, it is important to publish and publish because if the international experience had been published and published and evaluated, what happened unfortunately in Vukovar would most likely not have been repeated by Srebrenica. However, since Srebrenica did not vary to the extent to which it should have happened, what happened in other parts of the country and in the war affected areas where people unfortunately suffered and endured. I think it's important to mention some more people who have contributed to the development of this humanitarian right. Among them is a Free Lang who unfortunately had one car accident, thank God now recovers and this occasion gives him credit for his contribution. I'd like to say just a few more sentences about the contribution of the emigration in general to the Homeland War. I think we should investigate it, I think we should know that without the support of both financial and material both in weapons and in humans, it would not be possible to defend Croatia without that support. It would also not be possible to defend Bosnia and Herzegovina without the mutual participation of both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in terms of mutual support and humanitarian and each other, we know that during the aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina I think in the history of humanity the largest humanitarian support given by one country that was also at war was the one provided by Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina, because all assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina and by air and land and sea came exclusively through Croatia. Not to mention everything that happened during the care of our wounded when, among other things, the Split hospital took care of four thousand wounded members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Army during the conflict between both the army and the Croatian Council of Defense. So, after all, there are those who talk about aggression, etc. to Bosnia and Herzegovina by Croatia. At the end of the day when I see that time is really running out, I'd just like to say a few words about what I just said earlier that I'm going to be talking under number three, and it's about this component of the memory. So, the Croatian-Memorial Documentation Center. I don't understand it until the end of what's in this context and I don't know how much it's developed. But I think it would be a good idea for such an institution to be open to the public so that in this and such an institution it can be shown to those who come from outside, from children and other people interested, for example. original orders, say President Tudjman, General Bobetko or reports... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48527	Thank you. You're running out of time. Thank you very much. We have four replicas. First is the distinguished representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48528	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the director of the Croatian Memorial Centre of Mr. Nazor and I would like to recite to Mr. Bagaric. Mr. Bagaric, you also spoke of the war of Homeland which was being fought in Bosnia and Herzegovina. You're a witness to that war, and it's a good thing we have a center today that collects construction on the Homeland War. It is good that this structure is published, and it is good that this structure is a place from which history and children will be taught in textbooks in the Homeland War. The truth about the Homeland War is just one thing. She can be viewed in different ways. However, what has been sought in the last 15 years since the end of the Homeland War through certain media and from certain power centres around the world as a single political guilt complex, including one of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And the truth is that when the Croatian state was attacked that complete Croatianism was attacked, and I witnessed that on October 1st of '91. I was attacked right in Bosnia and Herzegovina when the whole political summit of Bosnia and Herzegovina said there was no war going on there, one even said it wasn't his war. The Croats were the first to stand up for Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are facts that, unfortunately, are often kept quiet in order to write a distorted history. That's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48529	Thank you. You're out of time. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48530	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think actually this information that was brought here in this report when Mr. Academyman Rudolph said that no decision was made here in Parliament 25. Six. '91. they could not go either in the further process of recognition of Croatia, nor would anyone internationally recognise it, nor would it be possible to show this war aggressively on Croatia until then. It can also be said of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The public doesn't know that. Unfortunately, the public does not know that, but it is an indisputable fact that can absolutely serve the pride of all Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and even the Croats no matter where they are. So, in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the declaration of Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence was brought exclusively with the support of Croatian lawmakers. Without their support, the majority in parliament would not be relevant and it would not be possible to adopt such a single document. On the basis of such a document, a referendum was held after which I think about 90% of the people came out and voted, and the Croats voted 95% for the sovereign Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, it was one unequivocal proof of the support of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Croats. Later, the HVO were units that were first organised to defend Bosnia and Herzegovina and, in many parts of happiness, there was no conflict between the army and the HVO in one significant part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, where he was, he was harmful to both sides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48531	Thank you. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48532	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The role and place of medical profession and medical science is certainly a topic that deserves attention and a short replica. Without the quality of treatment, without top medical services, without Croatian medical science, the likelihood of survival on the battlefields would be significantly lower. What also deserves attention, and less is known, given the traumas not only of the Croatian military and Croatian troops during the Homeland War but also of the civilian population of war trauma, mental disorder, post-traumatic war syndrome, invisible early war is certainly one topic. And the fact that Croatian science and Croatian profession in this area today is the center of excellence in the world. Finally, I would like to point out that not only in these medical areas, but also in some other areas of military technology excellence achieved in the Republic of Croatia in the area of leading anti-arming missile systems during the war and after the Homeland War was recognized even in world encyclopaedias related to rocket technology issued by burning world companies such as "Reaction", a whole series of published scientific works in... The area shows that this part of the participation of Croatian science and Croatian profession as a whole had an important component. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since these people hardly mention two short words, they certainly deserve attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48533	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48534	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am glad that my colleague Ćosic added, so actually I would say that he took a closer look at this issue and contributed. However, there remains one thing that is clearly under-processed in my opinion at the time of even aggression itself. No matter how many people collected and worked on data collection, we acted a little bit like it implies that Croatia is exposed to aggression and that the whole world knows it. However, all that is not repeated, published regardless of all the numerous statements of the victims, tortures different especially from the space occupied, so the lack of the arranged archives in that part is actually good work and starting with the assumption that it implies etc. It weakened Croatian arguments among those who precisely from those unwanted events that occurred and on the Croatian side want to relativise the whole area and reduce the power of aggression between one army and another, the rebellion of one nation in Croatia's territory against Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48535	Thank you. We have a replica of Honorable Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am very glad that you spoke about the medical profession because I agree with my colleague, Qosic, doctors have made a great contribution in the course of the Homeland War, not only in the treatment and care of the wounded but also in the publication of the magazines of everything that was going on during the Homeland War, which is extremely important. What I came to say is that I was one of the people who suggested that we actually include the editor you mentioned in the Memorial Board and he didn't pass. It is not good because people with such experience, people who can help and who should have been involved in that centre must surely, when we clearly consider after four years the new composition of the Governing Council, see exactly who can strengthen, contribute further to the work of this centre. This man is politically probably closer to your option than mine, but I was absolutely up for people of these qualities to be involved in the work of that center.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48537	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48538	I thank my colleague, Doric. We were, so we had the time to be fellow MPs in the past term when actually the issue of setting up a centre like this, and I remember the discussions and actually the different projections that would be with that centre, how it would all look together, etc. So, we can now conclude with satisfaction that the decision was right on making that decision by the Parliament on the establishment of this centre. On the other hand, people must always be chosen as best possible. I don't know exactly why Professor Marusic wasn't elected. I'm not sure it's about that, that it's about a man who's really very engaged. In any case, it would be good for him and all men like him to be in such institutions. On the other hand, if I can just answer you like that. I would not say that he is closer to neither this option nor that option than he is actually one normal human Croatian and scientific option which is actually good for both sides and for each option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48539	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that you specifically mentioned doctors in your presentation, i.e. to say first of all our surgical professions that were too busy during the Homeland War. The data that surgeons and doctors gave at their congresses and at lectures and abroad, I was also personally at Humboldt University in Berlin, having a half-hour lecture to German military surgeons, so they contributed to the vote, that the public and international as well as local knowledge of the horrors of war in the Republic of Croatia, clearly and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Just that as a small contribution to the fact that the Slavonic-ship hospital has provided 8 thousand and 6 hundred wounded, mostly in the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, she performed 11,000 operational procedures and spent 20 tons of blood. I'm talking about tones. Such data, which is truly regrettable to say to the impressive public, but above all also to the international community, to the international public to see the horrors of war and to actually know what you yourself said about aggression and the strength of aggression and anger that has taken place in the Republic of Croatia and Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this documentation centre with data that could be presented is that the Croats are Bosnia and Herzegovina, although in the number in which they have submitted almost the same number of victims as the number of victims in the Republic of Croatia. This is really one thing when compared to the total number of inhabitants in Croatia and BiH it is really something that is very... And that's what we can present to the world public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48541	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is next to the honourable representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48542	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Not to be all praises, I'm going to talk a little bit about some things that I think should be improved in the next period, and I hope Mr. Director and colleagues and colleagues agree with me. In fact, five years ago when only in this Assembly decided on the establishment of this centre I was among those who were particularly looking forward to the fact that we would finally get one institution that would be able to rapidly, effectively, professionally and objectively valorise everything that was happening during the Homeland War. The tasks were therefore collected, arranged, professionally interpreted and presented. And let's try to be objective now to see what we've achieved and what we haven't. Did we quickly and effectively succeed in what we intended? It's been done a lot, but I don't think it's fast enough, not effective enough. It seems to me that today, here at the pay phone, the director presented information related to a certain structure they have, which they have in connection with the alleged excessive bombing of Knin. Today we're in 2010, that data was supposed to be in the light of the day recently to really help. This is just one example, we don't have to chase ourselves just for that example, but I just want to say what we should certainly try to do. Look, I even think that those data don't even need to be presented here in the Parliament. No, I don't. No one needs to convince me that's the case, I know that's the case. But who was supposed to have that data two, three, four years ago and who was supposed to present that data? I personally believe the urbi et orbi that it should have been the minister of justice, the defence minister, possibly even the president or the Prime Minister. They should have made that public, they should have given it to every ambassador who sits in Zagreb. We were supposed to be effective, and we weren't. We're not because we're not systematic enough in the way we present the information that speaks about the truth. The board of directors. I tried, Mr. Director, to open your website to the center, and I tried to find out a little bit more about the structure of the center itself, and when I clicked on the structure, I received a modest text of 40 words. 40 words about the structure. I thought I'd find out who's in the Board of Directors, who's in the Expert Council, and a lot more than that. Unfortunately, I have not learned any of the names of these members of the Board of Directors or the Council of Experts, and we know that in their hands lies much about the work, the development, the planning of your work. That should certainly be the subject of today's conversation here too. I have already mentioned in the case when my colleague Bagaric mentioned doctors, he cited an example. I am deeply convinced and will always mention it, your archive is not a historical archive. It's a living archive, and we in the Governing Council have all the historians. That's not good. Why don't someone from the Justice Department sit on the board? Someone from the Department of Defense? Someone from the Home Office, etc., etc. They should be the ones who, through their advice, will find ways to optimally coordinate everything that happens in and around the center. That's very significant. I ask you, let's think about it, let's try to correct what we probably did in good faith four years ago. Let's make it even better. The right choice of people who will really make a new step. The other day, about ten days ago, I spoke to a retired Croatian Army officer who told me that he himself and his unit had come and seized documents related to the organisation of evacuation exercises... Who organizes them, who finances them, names, last names, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, ethnic cleansing yes or no, if we have that data then it is no, but we need to make it public, and we need to give it to et orbi again to the ambassadors, the European Union, Brussels, The Hague, etc., not to be kept in the archive. Part of the building is located in the military archives. My question to you director is what your cooperation with the military archives is, because clearly, if we're going to be whole, we need to have it in one place. I'm willing to have in Vukovar and elsewhere in the documentation centres, but I think there can only be copies there. The original material must be in one place, and copies if it has to be in ten places in ten centres, secret exhibitions, help them, etc., but we must be careful not to crucify information and these valuable buildings. That can't happen. So, once again I'd like to say that I've been trying to track down the databases... to see basically how many of your centers have published the papers that are listed in these databases, which can only give a relevant echo in the world, because you know where and how this information comes from. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, we have biomedicine, we have people from other professions, but not the center itself a large opus in these and such magazines. In science, we registered this facility as a scientific institution. In science, there are very clear criteria on the basis of which scientific work is valued. Publish or disappear, but publish what, in magazines that are quoted worldwide, can be found. So on countless decimals, we can precisely regulate the validity of each of us scientists in this scientific world, in the scientific community. So please, and there must be one step, a book to publish. It's not enough, it has relatively limited space, reach. I think new steps must be made to get the truth to those that need to be reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48543	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48544	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague, Doric, in his debate, who was content to say some things that I would agree with, but I didn't want to, and some I'm not going to correct, but I'm going to be able to answer right now. On several occasions you said these documents that have a centre should be delivered to ambassadors in Croatia, the European Union, etc. Indeed, I agree with you and probably they had all these documents on their eyesight, saw them, but the truth is always not one, the truth is selective when it comes to the Homeland War. And I'll best back it up, here's what we've witnessed recently in The Hague when the defenders of our generals were looking for the European Union Watchers' logs and they just answered we don't have those journals, and that's not true. I have since the first day of the Homeland War since Plitvice, since Easter as a doctor and in all the conversations that were observers of the European Union and of Karlovac and my hospital have kept very clear documentation that they have prepared in their archives and which they certainly have. So all the documents they wanted or didn't want to take went selectively to those who are trying in any case to equalize the guilt of the Homeland War, equalize the guilt of war on these premises, and that's where the center and the center are doing well. And therefore, I also invite all Croatian defenders who still have documents in their home archives to deliver them to our center, because the truth historians will write one that must be based on documents. And just like you said about the role of a doctor and what was done in the Homeland War and whether it was written. Yeah, and it's written down. And the Association of Doctors of Volunteers of the Homeland War in '91. For years, he keeps records, there's a lot of data that our generals have provided and I think the center is doing well, but the question of the truth is what kind of truth Europe wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48545	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48546	I thank my colleague for this replica. I agree with you that in this imperfect world today we always have some selective approach, I agree. But if you have arguments to direct this selective approach towards an objective approach, then you have to use the arguments. That was my appeal. If we have data from the Serbian side on the b swarm of grenades that fell on Knin, which objects were beaten, so don't use them. If we have a building on the training of evacuation of RSK citizens and we don't use them. If we have Kadijevic's speech with threats to Croatia and Slovenia, and we don't use it then it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48547	Thank you. And we have another replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I completely agree with my colleague, Doric, and I think it's important. He said, therefore, that the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War is not an institute for history, etc. So that's what it stands for. I'd just like to add a colleague to it, so science has no limits. So this center should also be seen as such an institution. So science has no limits. And I'd say on this occasion that I haven't said a word in a while, because I haven't had the time, unfortunately, I've spent it, and now you've encouraged me. Therefore, cooperation is important for this, this Centre for the Homeland War in Croatia with those who deal with similar issues. Let's say, I don't know in this case about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so when it comes to the archives of HVO or other institutions. Then, I don't know a similar archive or a similar centre, say the Bosnia and Herzegovina armies. Because exactly on the trail of what counterpart Doric said when they simply look at the facts then they cannot be respected. If a person does not respect them, then a third person will see the totality and those who did not respect it, so they will judge those who did not respect the uncontestable facts. Therefore, if the Hague Court enters the sphere of political court and makes such decisions and makes such decisions, then someone will judge them impartially after some time tomorrow and it is therefore important to publish, it is important to publish, important... your data. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48549	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I would like to say first to my colleague Bagaric that when business centres are analysed from a professional and scientific point of view, I would venture to say that 90% of these jobs are professional. 10%, 5% science, waist. That's why I called for people from the profession, defenses, justice, home affairs to be involved in the administrative council, involved in systematicizing, sorting out, analysing that data. He can't be a historian, he can't tell if a document is relevant to the defense of someone in The Hague based on what he sees on paper. Sometimes I can't read between lines. The waist can read between lines. That's important.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48551	Thank you. Before the closing words of Honorary Representative Ante Nazor, I would like to warn you that the documentation was all in existence and that someone is not giving them, the Honorable Representative Strikic turns out to be not giving the documentation and the basic. Therefore, I would ask you to keep an eye on the documentation debate. I agree with what Doric just said. Each one can evaluate the documentation from his domain, including you from the medical domain in which you participated. And now finally, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Ante Nazor, director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank the esteemed representatives and representatives at the support of the centre as well as the comments made that we will clearly respect to the extent possible. Given what I'm saying, I'm gonna try to explain some things right now. The problem in collecting materials is not listed in the report because it is a newer date. Unfortunately, I have recently heard complaints from researchers on projects that they do not have the availability they have so far. Therefore, it is a new problem, and I believe that we will solve it if we should and in conversations with the biggest officials, because I consider what I said and in my report that limiting the availability of documents leads us to a selective approach and leads us to half the information that none of us certainly wants. With regard to the financial problems that someone noticed, the reckless problem is normal when we started working with three people that we were growing up. Ten people were scheduled, but thanks to understanding again I repeat Mr. Minister of Science God Bishop and Ministry of Culture. We've grown to 18 members due to the exact speed and need of which the trial in The Hague has also conditioned. There were never 20 people. Maybe my report was too detailed, and then the colleagues who went to the maternity ward got a replacement. But there were always 18 people downtown. Clearly, I can say here as Otto Baric that I always lack two players to win. Certainly more people should, but it is certain that we should be realistic and that we are one of the scientific, archival institutions in Croatia and that we should also look at what we get accordingly. I won't complain. I am pleased with the help we receive, and the results of our work testify to these very editions. So what's going on with the financial downturn in programming is because we started from scratch the first year. The centre was to be equipped with all the equipment, informatively that I wasn't telling the rest. And that's why there was an extremely large amount of money, and then basically these activities come down to these programming, publishing activities, and I think they're quite enough. At least for now if it isn't, I'll be the first one to warn, and five books testify every year. If you take into account that we started working intensively since February 2006, when they finally got a job, when most employees finally got a job, to this day we are here in the two months we've been waiting for this report to print two more books, so it's practically more than four books, about five books a year, I think it's one distribution, one publishing activity for a center that is very, very important, and I don't think it testifies to the lack of funding, but rather that it maintains a constant. The moment we're in trouble, when we won't be able to print it out, I'll be sure to report it. As for future plans, someone asked, we will continue with the same dynamics, that means two books of documents a year, one book of documents of memory material, one scientific study and one photomonography. Four or five books, I think it's enough. And what I would like to emphasise in science does not quickly and efficiently and appeal to parliamentary representatives and to the general public, the Homeland War has recently ended relatively compared to historiography, especially if it takes into account the Law on Archival Material and how much material it may be inaccessible. I think if we're going to do quality work then we can't work fast, it doesn't exist in science. And as far as I'm concerned, I certainly consider the important step of the center of publication right in foreign languages, but in the centre's strategy, I personally opted for youth for one reason that is very important in science, I can also personally testify, we are all participants in that period. Each of us has been on a field, on a battlefield, in a situation that may be over-obstructive to properly assess that event. We have hired a team of young people who have completed a historical, mostly history study, because what we want to do in the center, and this is not only an archival institution, but also a scientific institution that will interpret the documentation at its disposal. History has shown that the one who arranges the material has the best insight into it. And our best experts in the Homeland War today worked in military archives or worked on archive material for 10 years, 6 years minimum before they went into productive publishing. It's one process, it's a long-term process if we want to keep that one scientific level. We are a central institution, such as the Croatian State Archives, a central archival institution, so this allows certain branches to be established in other cities. In addition, the center is not the only institution involved in the Homeland War. We have excellent cooperation with the museum center in Vukovar and with military archives, and with the Croatian Institute of History, and when it was mentioned whether there was any synthesis of recent Croatian history that could be recommended, I would recommend the synthesis of the creation of the Croatian state and the Homeland War made by a group of authors, and it was printed in the publication of the Croatian Institute of History. So this is about to say a kind of textbook where the recent Croatian history is quite objectively and diversely depicted. Of course, there's a lot more to work on. The strategy of the center is that each of these young doctorates take another topic. It must be tied to the Homeland War and exactly what was here and mentioned to be included, because war is not just a Homeland War, it's not just a military and political history, it's an economy, we heard, it's also a sanity, it's a pension initiative, it's an economy, and we're going to try to satisfy all of these. But certainly in cooperation with other institutions that have similar projects. Gunnery logs, they may be relatively new to the public, but for lawyers who defend Croatian generals in The Hague are not. I also said in Haag's presentation he knows very well about the artillery logs. The second thing is how interested the media in Croatia is and why this information has not been presented before. After all, in the last few months, I've presented that fact several times, but it has no such echo as any other negative side. That's the problem with Croatian media. The evacuation material was published in the book "Storm" in addition to documents, where exactly the period since the preparations for evacuation began, what is very important to note in that book "Storm", except for that scientific study by Davor... It is that it contains three wholes that provide an argumentable response to these painful points that the Hague prosecution has placed in The Hague, which is that the war could not be unfortunately that the military option could not be avoided, there are a series of documents, we deliberately went since '91. Years to '95. to show that it's one continuity, that military... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Operation Storm did not come as thunder from the clear sky, but that it simply resulted from the long-standing failed negotiations with the leadership of the rebel Serbs and ineffectiveness of the international community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second whole that speaks in these documents, in addition to the documents, is dedicated to the crisis. There is also a memoir of the esteemed representative of General and Professor Dr Krešimir Cosic, and there are documents that show that practically in '94. Until "Storm" itself, Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia have one important goal, which is to take Bihac and thereby significantly change the strategic basis in these areas. And if Bihac had fallen, believe me, the question would have been to keep it going. That is why this chapter has been purposely dedicated to the area of Bihac, and it has been deliberately taken back since '94. years to see continuity. And the third chapter in that book has just been subjected to plans... That's been going down since '93. The year, with the decision of the Supreme Council of Republika Srpska's authorities, where they, in the afternoon of August 4th, are giving orders to evacuate the population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm stressing again before the Croatian forces arrive. All of this is clearly stated in that book and in that documentation. Everything we've achieved, what we've learned, we've been trying to get word to the public as soon as possible. However, the problem is that this centre was founded only in 2005. In four years, expecting some top scientific results may be a bit pretentious, since the material was also a good number of years inaccessible. We can't have scientific results on one side if we don't have access to sources on the other. It's a law of connected vessels and it's very clear to anyone who's in science. The list of victims, there were mentions of him here. Since day one, I've been saying it with special responsibility, because I knew what was going to happen. As soon as we started working, taking care of the documents, I said we had one man in charge. As soon as it finds out about a dead Serb military member of the province, get him into the database. For four years, the centre has been working to collect about 5,000 people killed by Serb nationalities, which are mostly, so it's about an area occupied. In parallel with us Croatian institutions, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia has the Directorate for Detained and Missing in the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and there is a list. He's at the end, along with a missing persons list. Why am I saying this? Because we constantly have a question in public about the establishment of a regional commission that is set up, according to its ideas beginners, because countries in the region are unable to face their own past, they are not willing to objectively display the recent past. That doesn't stand and that's exactly what this data is, these numbers are saying the opposite. We today, almost 90% know the number and list of victims on both the Croatian and Serbian sides. In my report, I explained why it was necessary. Currently, about 12,000 210 people are on the list of victims on the Croatian side. So these are direct demographic losses, directly suffered directly from the action of JNA or paramilitary units. 1030 were missing on the list that were verified by international factors and I say this list that we are working at the centre he is simply talking about taking care of the full list in both the Croatian government and the state. And that Croatian institutions are capable of showing the Homeland War objectively without anyone else's help. I am not against cooperation, although I encourage cooperation with all institutions and NGOs in the region, but I believe we need nothing over the commission, no regional commission because we are capable of solving this problem ourselves. And what I'd like to stress is that the centre was founded, and I stress that, as a public scientific institution. And in that sense, we've been acting boredom and we'll continue to act. And don't put us, both at the same time and some journalists tried to sort us out with someone's policy option. The Centre is a scientific institution and it will remain that way. I would like this field class that we were talking about today, in Vukovar, and we personally talked about it with the representatives of the military and with the representatives of the Ministry of Science, and now I'm going to write a letter soon, a proposal. Vukovar is an ideal place to organize field classes in this area not only about the Homeland War and not just about history, because there you have a period from Vucedol from prehistory to here's Homeland War, but also about geography, economy. Vukovar is in an ideal place, the military infrastructure in Vukovar is simply crying out to be used. You have 40 minutes drive to Ilock, 40 minutes drive to Kopačko Rita, Osijek, Djakova, Vinkovac. In 2, 3 days, students can meet Eastern Slavonia, and I strongly recommend that they really get rid of it. Here, in the end, I would like to thank you once again for the support of the centre for all of you, for the remarks we will certainly consider and, in particular, I would like to ask for the support of my young colleagues at the centre who have taken the scientific path because I believe that they will need this support just as much as their patience, I repeat, science and scientific research, a long-term process, and we should be patient there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48553	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48554	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Director, you did not correctly interpret my words. You said, it's not true that in science, I would add to the profession, there is fast and efficient. Wrong, you know. I'm a doctor and there's a quick and efficient way on every emergency tape in this country, and what was I talking about? I was talking about the case of excessive bombing of Knin. If it's Kn's priority, then all the forces are being thrown at Knin and their documents. Whoever's first in them, that's no science at all. It's a matter of technique and profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48555	Thank you. And that concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48556	My colleague Vujic, I am not answering your line right now, so that I can test the behavior of the HDZ Club members or whether they will get up and leave the assembly in accordance with their new doctrine when I speak, but really because I believe that private property has one logic. Someone starts, sets up a radio or television station, if it's a private owner with a profit cut, it's a commercial business, it's a living thing. He can hire someone else, pay his salary, but the basic motive of private rule is profit. With units of local self-government, it doesn't have to be that way, when they own, they can even have a bad program, they can lose to it, they can cover it from municipal or city funds, which he cares about because they have another interest, they realize political or political interest. I doubt that any private publisher will allow himself to ban anyone from any political party from hosting on his radio or television, if such a show is interesting, if she can attract advertisers and if he can ultimately earn money. He'd drink the branch he'd sit on. But a single mayor or president of the municipality can do so and also cover the losses, not with his money but with municipal or city money, in order to achieve one political purpose and then it is quite the opposite of the idea of publishing activity in radio and television diffusion. I agree with you that perhaps the best solution would be to find some legal framework, some legal solution to make such things impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48557	Thank you. Within 15 and 7 minutes, the time of the 10-minute hearing has expired. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. He's gone. He's losing his word. Madam representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Lefty, Madam Secretary of State. I will just briefly remind myself that the Council for Electronic Media began working in 2004, and the Agency was established in 2008 on 1 January and I will, of course, only talk about this topic or about what this subject refers to. In December 2008, what was important or one of the preconditions for the functioning of the Electronic Media Agency was its own space, so the Agency bought space from its own resources which was, in part, restrictive in the work of the Council and later on, the Agency. In fact, the Council worked out of the draft in rented space, which in some ways prevented their technical and personnel teams. The purchase of a new space enables the establishment of the Agency for the Implementation of the Laws of Prescripted Tasks, Teaming of Professional Services and Technical Equipment in order to exercise control over the implementation of the provisions on programme principles and obligations of electronic media publishers, which is the basic task of the Council. In accordance with its competences, the Council oversees the implementation of the Law on Electronic Media and the application of sublegal acts. It also monitors compliance with the Audio Visual Media Services Directive. European Conventions on Cross-border Television and other Regulations. Special attention within the framework of supervision shall be paid to the protection of children and minors by controlling software content that could endanger the physical, mental or moral development of minors. Amendments to the 2007 Electronic Media Act The Council was given the task of collecting data on the ownership structure of publishers. However, what I would particularly like to emphasise here is that the publishers, and this is not a small number of them, are neglecting exactly this legislative provision, which is also visible in the reports of the Council on Electronic Media. And I hope that the Council will act in accordance with the law and I just remind myself that financial penalties are prescribed and that there is a financial definition of the law, and we will see, of course, only in this year's report that the council will implement that legal provision. The Council adopted and implemented a decision on the way and evaluation of applications for the allocation of the Pluralism and Variety Fund, and introduced, which is very good, and an offer assessment system for all members of the Council for each offer that has come to the public tender. The funds shall be awarded to the publishers according to the average assessment of the offer. The Council also regularly opened public tenders for the award of concessions for the performance of radio and television activities, depending on the new frequencies and depending on the expiry of the concession Treaty. However, what concerns, which is also evident from this report submitted to the Croatian Parliament, which still states here as something that encourages, and I would say that it still worries, which is that here it is cited as encouraging that we have the first case of scholarship of highly educated personnel. It is evident that especially if we are talking about local media, so smaller media, whether television or radio, their educational structure is not exactly something to be boasted about. So I would like to encourage this to see here more publishers who decide the funds that, among other things, are meant for the fund and for the scholarship, or for the education of staff, be more, and not to mention, we had only one case when the publisher opted for education. Equally, what concerns is too far apart from virtual and real situations, or offers and eyewitnesses, but I believe that the law that has recently been in force will regulate this. In any case, it encourages the fact that the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media is clearly doing its job, only to become clear to the publishers that not only when the Ministry asks for something of them, it is not their legal obligation, but also they must act according to the law when it comes to the Agency, or the Council for Electronic Media. I will uphold this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48559	Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. She's gone. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48560	Thank you very much, Vice-President, the Honorable President of the Council for Electronic Media, the Honorable Secretary, that is, excuse me and the Honorable Vice-President of the Government. I am pleased that the final report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the agency itself has come to order. Although we are talking about 2008 and I think it will also apply to all those reports that are going today that should have been done, if not sooner, and at least in September last year. Because for now, we should be discussing the 2009 Report almost now, and we're talking, I say, still for 2008. I must say that I am pleased to have this report in order to reaffirm how funds from the Pluralism and diversity Fund are being spent, which is the 3% that we are devoting from the subscription. Normally related to the HRT Act. And where the fundamental purpose was to just encourage content in terms of local focus, in terms of promoting the development and emissions that will treat human rights, fundamental freedoms, the rights of national minorities, or the rights of all those necessary minorities, whether they are persons with disabilities. Certainly promote the development of tolerance, development and certainly encourage understanding, the removal of various already applied stereotypes that often do not contribute. Unfortunately, I have to say what I am in the name of minorities, but in the name of my minority several times, I have pointed out that the reports we receive here in the Assembly are the same and when the competitions are discussed very often are not seen which shows are intended for minorities? What are these funds meant for minorities? Because unfortunately, it's always a pool of funds, and what's saddeningly more is that they're being treated as if they're all the funds that are given to the emissions of minorities. I think it's high time we got a council report like this in the end, or in the last year, really what kind of shows are they? Are these shows that only talk about minorities and are these shows that are 2.3 times done in one month or a week? Or they're emissions that go 365 days a day, and first of all in minority languages, that they're emissions really for which minorities are interested, and not to be, first of all, not to be in minority language, secondly to be just a contribution to minorities. When it tried to approach the establishment of this fund, it was just wanted to finance what is not normally available on our public Croatian television, which is primarily aimed at informing, educating. It's not commercial, it's not on the market and it's exactly like this, such as minority emissions, for which the market has no interest, for which they have no interest in commercial television because it's something most often heard locally, or something at local level, there's interest at local level. We are an officer. 18. Constitutional law defined that local radio stations, local stations are obliged to produce and broadcast emissions intended for minorities and emissions in minority languages. Unfortunately, to date, the issue of financing these shows has not been resolved at all. When they report to the fund with their show, they get some funds that are very often insufficient, i.e. they don't care enough whether it's a reported one month-long emission, which will perform 5 shows related to that minority and will end the programme. Or, what I've said is, it's a program that lasts for years, which is exclusively with minority editorials, in minority languages, and that can certainly provide some kind of information for that minority. I have the impression that when selecting the financials, the emissions were reorientated to information. As if we're forgetting, I've already said that we have a television that has the primary task of information, as if we're forgetting that when giving concessions to certain televisions and radios, we commit them to having 10% information programs. But there's no obligation to fund it anywhere. We are now also funding such information from this fund, and in parallel I say exactly those shows, that diversity, that pluralism as well as the fund is called simply turns out to be underfunded because the main thing I say is to go to information that is otherwise said television at the end of 97% subscription goes to HRT. Therefore, it is her dominant role, which is why they are not on the market. I think we should promote this diversity through this Fund, promote that this council is monitoring that these emissions are really going in the direction, that is, those means in the direction of encouraging such emissions that I say are not primary in the area of HRT, or those that should be potentiated and respected. There's something else I need to point out. Indeed, looking at the report on the funds allocated to the electronic media here and that such a report went into the summary report to the Council of Europe as incorrect, where it is said that several million were practically spent on minority emissions, and this indeed went to the Council of Europe for signing the Government. If we know from that, they've only been spent on minority emissions, they're talking about unseriousness, and I'd say the Council itself. Furthermore, the Government has also been led astray, as four years of the report on the implementation of the Convention on the Protection of National Minorities has now gone, where you believe such data have been provided that all the funds that have been given for all emissions have been given the funds for the emissions of national minorities. And now that we are, and come this week representatives from the Council just as monitoring it, say forgive me, but we get out of it, and we don't even know exactly what, then Croatia will turn out to be unserious. But this data is already inconclusive where one radio is said to have received 150000 kuna in that year, and it has received 40,000 kuna for a minority show. It's got a difference for four more programs, but just single out once what's really for minority emissions, possibly for other differences. But don't put it all in a basket because you're making a lot of mistakes and many conclusions aren't the right conclusions. I think there should be a request from us here, and we've already asked for it years ago that we finally know how much of the funds for which the Council's emissions when the programmes are scheduled have been selected, funded to finally say that it's either enough or insufficient but that we really know what we're funding. In this way we turn out to be unserious and yet the most important minorities are not satisfied, because very few shows go to the languages of national minorities, which is ultimately the goal and the Convention on the Protection of Minorities which says that minority emissions are considered only those in minority language, and not something that speaks of minorities in general. Thank you very much. I won't be able to support the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48561	Thank you. Final review, director of the agency Mr. Zdenko Ljevak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48562	... does not broadcast radio, does not finance radio, does not finance emissions, finance the program, so we cannot then and we will not certainly behave differently to this request or to some other requirements. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] That's what the law tells us, and that's how we're gonna keep doing it. But we'll do something that we can do. I went from the back, actually, to the freshest discussion. Something that we can do when we adapt to business sublaws, then we will consult actually a Council for National Minorities and see how something can be done there. National minorities think they have other addresses where that part of financial support should be realised. As far as the work of the Council and the Electronic Media Agency is concerned, we certainly cannot discuss what was two years ago, but it is a form. At the beginning, I said that this was the technical reason that the members were changing, that the law was not on, or the source was not on time. I also said on the parliamentary committees that by the end of May, we would have a 2009 report. As for the work and evaluation of the Agency's work and the regulatory part, I must tell you that a month and a half ago we had the director of the OSCE for this part, for this part of the actual monitoring of the presidential election. We had an hour of debate together with the Council and they confirmed that their assessment of the work of the regulatory body was highly assessed without distinction to the dispute they think occurred between one national television and the Council. However, we have proved that it is not a dispute, that it is the use of rights and that it would be done to any publisher to act so. Public ownership is the obligation of every publisher to be legally prescribed and I must say here that this year's Council, as you have completely completed, will treat those publishers who do not comply with their legal obligations without any distinction. We don't recognize HDZ or SDP as an agency. We recognize the program and such, in such a way as to actually implement the Law on Electronic Media. The right to the diversity of speech, the right to the diversity of broadcasting, these are editorial rights. We're the only thing we can and where we intervene, intervene in a way that doesn't stick to programming schemes. Namely, I have to explain to you when concessions or special programme permits are granted then we have the programming scheme that has been presented to us and on the basis of it we grant concessions and we give permission to work and the council is tasked to monitor whether the publisher fulfils his obligation in this respect. If it does not execute, then we also have the parameters we apply and try to be relatively consistent. I say relatively because the new law has just come and we must adapt ourselves as our publishers do. Unlike here, was there little or much of the Council’s sanctions in 2008? I can't comment on them for as many as there were. That was in the report. However, I must tell you that the report that you will receive in 2009 is much more radical, much more powerful with much more data, and much more of the very moves that the council has taken, not choosing whether it is a small and large publisher, radio or television. If a person committed a crime, then the council makes decisions in a way that is fair and within the law. There have been objections to whether we as a council should react, whether a new director-in-chief of Croatian television is elected or not. That's none of our business. And I'm glad it wasn't mine personally for a long time I was involved in it. But I don't think we have anything to do with it. There's a special law there, and we can't really react to that law, but we can do something else, and here we are, I have to tell you yesterday, that a program that pops out of the legal framework and that doesn't respect the Laws on the Programme that we react in the same way to public television or to anyone else, and that's how it's gonna continue to be. There were talks on whether an effective measure to initiate the infringement procedure was effective. I personally also told the Assembly Committee that it was not effective, but that this is one possibility that the law foresees. However, it is a much more effective reminder and we took advantage of it in 2009 and made it clear that we will not take away from that sanction to take away someone's concession for one hour, one day or one month, anyway depending on the offense that has been committed. I will end up saying that in 2010 the Council is now established humanely supported, technologically trained and I think that all our publishers can hope for better co-operation with the Council and the Electronic Media Agency, but also much more stringent law enforcement. And I hope that in that direction the debate on our effects will be very different somewhere in the 9th month of this year. Thank you for your support, everyone who supported this report, and we will continue to work and do our job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48563	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48564	We move to the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War from its draft in 2005 to 2009. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the conclusion which reads: "The report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is accepted from its draft in 2005 to 2009. "years." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The report was accepted by most votes, 110 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48565	We're moving to agenda two. This is - Report on the work of the Electronic Media Council and the Electronic Media Agency for the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2008. The applicant shall be the Agency for Electronic Media. The Agency for Electronic Media and the Council for Electronic Media submitted a work report on the basis of Article. 58a paragraph 3 and Article 2 Paragraph 58.9. The law on electronic media. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Information and Information and Media. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Representative of the Proposer, Imported Zdenko Ljevak, Director of the Agency. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48566	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. The introduction of the Report on the Agency for Electronic Media and the Council of Electronic Media would like to start with a few notes, which is the Council and what kind of Council has obligations. The Council for Electronic Media was established by the Law on Electronic Media in 2003 as an independent and independent legal person with public authority. In 2007, there is an amendment to the Law on Electronic Media, where the Agency for Electronic Media is co-ordinated and we are now receiving actual support, i.e. support to the Council for Electronic Media, and since 2007 the Council and agencies have been functioning. In order for the Council's report to be completely understandable, I will briefly remind you of the Council's obligations for electronic media. I hope that will help in the debate I expect and make the decision itself. Council, I'm going to state a few tax obligations by law, which should be done by the council. The Council shall implement the concession procedure in accordance with the Law on electronic media and the Law on concessions. It shall conclude a concession agreement with the most favourable bidder, which shall be logical. It makes a decision to withdraw concessions and permits in the cases provided for by law. It shall take appropriate measures to temporarily restrict the freedom to transfer audiovisual services from other countries. It shall conduct the authorisation procedure for the provision of audiovisual media services on request and for satellite, internet, cable and other forms of audiovisual and radio transmission. He shall make observations in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the laws and sub-legislative acts and shall submit the indictments in accordance with the provisions of this law and of the law in breach. It lays down rules for whose decisions it is, for which it is governed by law. He keeps a record of the provision of media services, implements the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media for the Protection and pluralism of the diversity of electronic media. It shall ensure supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the programming principles and obligations of the Electronic Media Act. And not to mention there's a lot of it, I wanted to point out that we have the knowledge of what all the Council needs to do to do to him and how it works. Finally, I would just like to point out that the Council is also obliged to cooperate with other regulatory bodies of the European Commission, and the European Commission, and to submit a report to the European Commission in accordance with the Law on Electronic Media. Normally we report to the Croatian Parliament who chose us. The Council for Electronic Media carried out its obligations in 2008 through 54 sessions dealing with various issues and making decisions and actively carrying out direct monitoring, which is one of the council's basic tasks. In light of the fact that in 2008, the Council opened 5 public tenders for the award of concessions of radio and television and, in addition to the previous stages, awarded and opened a tender for the award of those concessions, opened a tender for the Fund for pluralism and diversity of electronic media to which 143 radio and 21 television broadcasts were registered, and all the programmes were required to listen and watch and then make decisions and issue documents on the use of financial resources, I believe that this is a valuable picture of the Council's activities in 2008. All these and many other activities are taxed in our written report, I think you'll discuss it and we delivered them in time, in time unfortunately, for one whole year, but we'll finally say something about it. Now some information on the further activities of the Council and the Agency. By taking effect the new Law on Electronic Media at the end of 2009, the Council and the Agency received additional commitments for which human and technological organisations must be organised, and we do so as much as possible. In early 2010, the Agency organised and strengthened its monitoring, equipment or equipment is still in operation, with the latest software that enables even more active presence in the monitoring of the television and radio programme, which is one of the most important tasks foreseen by the new Law. The new Law on Electronic Media obliges the Council to bring in more than 12 sublegal acts within 90 days, and we are working on it and we think that we will do it in time. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, the work of the Electronic Media Council has been recognised as appropriate in the wider region, so some of our segments and modes of work are taken as a positive pattern in neighbouring countries, and one of them has chosen our Council and the Agency as an institution to send part of its staff for shorter education. The above confirms that the Council and the Agency are as active as possible, that they are able to carry out their obligations with great effort and to communicate with the public on a parallel daily basis, as well as with all expert associations of electronic media publishers directly or through an interactive website. And finally, this House needs to know how the Council is financed. The Agency and the Council today numbers a total of 18 employees, which means with complementarity and training for all its functions, the Agency's work resources are provided in accordance with the Agency's annual financial plan of 0.5% of the total annual gross income, which in the previous year, has been achieved by radio-television publishers. This is exactly the kind of funding method that proves that the Agency is in the system in which the Council is also fully independent without economic, political and other influence on the decisions it makes. We will continue to do this, we will try to do our job very consciously and within the legal framework, and I also announce that we will carry out our commitments to the Parliament in this new composition in time so that the 2009 Report will arrive on time and then we will discuss another time this year on the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48567	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. First of all, the representative of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities is a respected representative of Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48568	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed this report on the work of the Electronic Media Council and the Electronic Media Agency at its 31st session on 3 February 2010. This report was considered to be an interested working body in particular in the section relating to the power of the Electronic Media Council set out in Article 65 and takes decisions on the allocation of funds from the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media. The same article found that the Fund's funds and that is 3% of the funding paid to HRT means big money, encourages the software content of electronic media at local and regional level that is important for the exercise of public information rights, for the exercise of the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and for the promotion of awareness of gender equality. The members of the Committee referred to the Council's obligations to encourage the publication of software content relating to the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rights of national minorities, children, young persons with disabilities and the obligation to prohibit those content that promotes and spreads hatred based on racial or ethnicity, sex, language, religion, national or social origin. In this connection, they pointed out the importance of further developing tolerance in order to achieve a higher degree of understanding of all differences and the removal of imported stereotypes. We therefore believe that more attention should be paid to the analysis of these programme content in the next Reports, in order to assess whether the publishers fulfil the law of the established obligation. And to Mr. Leviaq, who has just taken office this year, sent this message for next year. As regards the provision of software content intended for national minorities, they pointed out that the amount allocated from the Fund's resources for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media for these software content does not mean that it will be used for them. In fact, it happens that only part of these funds are used for the emissions of a small part intended for national minorities, while most of them are used for the work of individual radio stations. As the problem of financing television stations and radio stations has been highlighted, it is particularly expressed at regional and local levels. The Council should therefore monitor how the allocations are used, i.e. it is required to ensure that they are used for software content intended for national minorities and not as we have said for the development of these radio stations. The members of the Committee therefore called on the Council for Electronic Media to allocate from the total funds the amount specified for the analysis of those software content, in particular hate speech and intolerance in electronic media at targeted television and radio stations. Although they welcomed the adoption of a Regulation on the way television operators act in order to protect minors, they stressed that there was no information on how respected this Regulation was, whether there was a breach of its provisions and in which part. They also pointed out that the Council is not being used to the extent that it has been given the Law on Electronic Media. It is not understandable why the Council launched only one infringement procedure in 2008 which is still pending when it is known that only the Ombudsman submitted 10 applications to the Council asking the council as a regular authority to examine whether children's rights have been violated. Given that one infringement procedure has been initiated and that only 6 further warnings have been given, a more active role of the agency is expected, above all by official duty, and a greater co-operation of the agency with the competent state authorities. The opinion is expressed that the proposed report does not give introduction to the achievement of the programme content for children. The members of the board requested more precise data on the number of emissions to disabled persons from the end of the electronic media. The amount of funds for their realisation granted from the Fund with this purpose, as well as information on how much television and radio publishers have shown interest in broadcasting such emissions at all, i.e. how many have appeared in the tender for the distribution of funds of the Fund. Since funds are primarily intended to promote the software content of electronic media at local and regional level related to the exercise of citizens' rights to public information, it is stressed that persons with disabilities in this regard have been particularly shortened because very few emissions are allocated to them in particular to local television and radio stations. The Council of Electronic Media called for better co-operation with the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, as well as with the presidents of associations and parliamentary representatives representing the interests of persons with disabilities. In particular, the need to educate journalists on the rights of persons with disabilities and on the rights of persons with disabilities is highlighted, and it has been proposed to ensure their familiarity with the problem of persons with disabilities during the annual meetings of television and radio publishers. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Electronic Media Agency for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48569	Thank you. The Committee for Information, Information and Media, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48570	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the Committee on Information, Information and Media considered this report as a parent body. The question has been asked, why is the 2008 report only now being submitted? It has been answered for technical reasons, and the 2009 report will be delivered by May this year. The members of the board particularly commended the availability of the Fund for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media, and the fact that it was given an accurate, transparent, virtual and realistic picture of the situation in electronic media. It draws attention that the publishers were obliged to inform the board of advertising by 31 March. But if they did not do so, no sanctions were prescribed, which was later corrected in the new Electronic Media Act. In Chapter 6, which speaks of a violation of the provisions of the law, there is only one infringement procedure. In the debate, members of the board found that the infringement procedure was long-term, ineffective and that it would be more effective in such a case, for example. to withdraw the concession for several hours, in particular for the purpose of protecting children and minors. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to adopt this report by the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48571	Thank you. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48572	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Council for Electronic Media, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club considered the full support of the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Electronic Media Agency for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2008, which the Council and the Agency for Electronic Media delivered to the Croatian Assembly for discussion and adoption and on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a positive opinion. The report delivered by us at the Croatian Democratic Community Club is estimated to be critical enough for the state and appearances in electronic media and self-critical in a segment where certain qualitative shifts are made both within the Council and the Electronic Media Agency. On the basis of the amendments and additions of the Law on Electronic Media from 2007 to the Council of Electronic Media, the Agency for Electronic Media was established to which the administrative and professional affairs of the Council were transferred, and the Council also received the position of the Management Board of the Electronic Media Agency in its competence. During 2008, the four-year term for two council members expired, and the Croatian Parliament appointed a new two members to the five-year term. The same year came the election of a new council president and the director of the Electronic Media Agency. It also deserves to be commended for the methodology of drawing up a report which, as for previous years, is transparent and clear, gives a further look at what has been done during the observed period. The Council thus already had the opportunity to hear from the exhibitors during 2008, held 54 sessions, three more than in 2007, on which it carried out its tasks prescribed in Article 60. The law on electronic media. Thus, during 2008, the Council adopted 5 sublegislative acts, of which we particularly highlight the Regulation on the way and procedure of implementing a public tender for co-financing of programme content and funding of the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media, to the criteria for the allocation of funds and to monitor the spending of funds and to achieve the programme content for which the Council has been allocated to contribute to the transparency of work and to give clear instructions to publishers who compete for the funds of the Fund. Special attention should also be paid to the Regulation on the way in which television operators are treated in order to protect minors. The main tasks of the Council are the implementation of the Law on Electronic Media which regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities of legal and natural persons carrying out the activities of the production and publication of software content and services through electronic media. The Council for Electronic Media is therefore responsible for the activities of commercial broadcasters of radio and television programmes, electronic publications and for Croatian radio-television as a public institution except in those matters which are in accordance with the Law on HRT in the jurisdiction of other bodies. Without Croatian Radio and Television in 2008, there were 155 publishers of the radio programme, 23 publishers of the television programme, and this report did not list the number of legal and physical persons enrolled in the register of publishers of electronic audiences that are otherwise being held in the council and we had this information in the 2007 report. As established by law, the public of ownership is obliged by 31 January of each year to provide the Council with information on the change of ownership structure. In this report we record 15 publishers who have reported a change in the ownership structure, so the data provided by the council in the radio activity is 15 publishers owned exclusively by local and regional self-government units, owned by 49 owners of local and regional self-government units and 91 publishers are privately owned. In television activity, five publishers own units of local and regional self-government and 18 publishers are privately owned. During 2008, the Council held five competitions in which 14 concessions for radio and television activities were awarded. The concession was also offered more clearly in accordance with the free concessions as well as the end of the concession but due to lack of interest as well as the non-compliance with the conditions laid down in the Regulation on specific technical, spatial, financial and personnel conditions for the performance of radio and television activities, these parts of the tenders had to be annulled. No administrative dispute has been initiated against Council decisions during 2008. Namely, these decisions are final and are not allowed to appeal against them. Furthermore, no confiscation of the concession has been recorded, which means that the Council has not established any such breach of the provisions of the Law on electronic media for which the law has prevented the suspension of any temporary or permanent confiscation of the concession. It might be good for the report if the total income on behalf of the annual concession fee for all commercial broadcasters of radio and television activity in Croatia is possible again, which was also in some previous reports. The applicant/reporter, the Director of the Agency for Electronic Media, said in his opening statement that the Council was responsible for determining the infringements of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media which occurred during 2008. In particular, Article 70 of the Treaty on the The e-media law lays down cases where the Council of Electronic Media for established non-compliance or violation of the law initiates a misapplication and, in all other cases, declares a warning. Thus, the infringement procedure was initiated in 2008 against New TV because on 16 September 2008, it broadcast a software content titled "The Moment of Truth" which was found to be in conformity with the provisions of Article 15(3) of the Law, which stipulates that software content which can seriously compromise the physical, mental, mental or moral development of minors is not allowed. Although the law prevents the fine of a million kuna from being fined, we are also in the club that because of the longevity of the infringement procedure that is here and in this case, even more appropriate statement of the warning is being made, because after the third warning being made, a decision can be made on the temporary or permanent confiscation of the concession. By the way, notices were made during 2008 for 6 publishers, 4 television and 2 radios which found violations of the provisions of the Electronic Media Act. A few words on the fund for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media operating within the Agency for Electronic Media. Fund funds are designed to promote the production and publication of software content of electronic media at local and regional level, which are of public interest and are particularly important for the exercise of citizens' rights to public information, national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, the promotion of specific programmes in areas of special state concern, the promotion of cultural creation, the development of education, science and art, and the employment of highly educated professionals in electronic media at local and regional level, as well as creations in Croatian languages and the development of awareness of gender equality. The Fund's funds for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media are provided from neutral means of the Agency for Electronic Media and 3% of the monthly total collection of funds in the name of the fee generated by Croatian Radio-Television. The public tender for the distribution of funds was attended in 2008 by 143 publishers of radio and 21 broadcasters. In 2008, nearly 33 million kunas or 4.6 million kunas were distributed more compared to 2007 for these purposes. According to the law, 16 million kunas are distributed in equal amounts to publishers for radio and television activity. It is important to say in this distribution that the Council decided during 2008 on how to evaluate applications for the distribution of funds and introduced a new system of evaluations of bids that met with the rapporteur. In particular, a detailed analysis of the reported programmes from which the Council has drawn up a virtual and real picture, a real or real picture of the state of radio and television publishers. For us here there is a much more interesting and important real picture of radio publishers who testify that 8 publishers without a public information programme, 91 without a gender equality programme, 81 without a programme intended for areas of special state care, 71 is without a programme intended for national minorities, 66 without programs in Croatian language. And the real picture of television publishers shows that 11 of them do not have a PPDS programme, 11 of them do not have a gender equality programme, 9 there is no program in Croatian languages, and 6 publishers have no programmes intended for national minorities. However, given that the promotion of creativity in the Croatian language and the development of awareness of gender equality is embedded in the law of amendments and additions to the 2007 law and that this was the first year of their application, there is plenty of room for improvement in the coming years, and we expect that just by pointing to this situation in the future, it will be improved to improve the Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and diversity of media to achieve its full legal task. This, however, is not enough just for the activities of the Electronic Media Council, and a different relationship between the electronic media publishers is also needed. During 2008 The Council gave prior consent to the amendment or addition of a programme basis relating to more than 10% of the programme scheme on the basis of which a concession was granted for 19 radio or television operators. In addition to ensuring supervision, last but most important, supervision of the implementation of the rules on programming principles and obligations or monitoring for which the Electronic Media Council has been responsible, through direct monitoring carried out by members of the boards and professional services of the Agency by going to the field, such monitoring has been carried out 6, and through the specific surveillance of the Agency, which analysed the footage of the software content, 15 television and 34 radio publishers which were found to respect the legal provisions in most parts of the publishers, and for the observed deficiencies, warnings have been given to the publishers. Indirect surveillance by authorised companies was carried out by three radio publishers. In fact, all the tasks carried out by the Agency and the Council for Electronic Media have been carried out by 12 employees, namely 7 members of the Council for Electronic Media and 5 employees of the Agency’s professional services. By the end of 2008, the electronic media agency has permanently solved the work space by purchasing the business space and thus created preconditions for further professional teaming in order to be able to carry out the demanding tasks that the Council and the Agency have put into power over the next period. Finally, something about finance because in 2008 it was a very good year for publishers, both for publishers and for the Electronic Media Agency, because the Agency is financed from 0.5% of the total annual gross income that in the previous year was achieved by broadcasters of electronic media. Thus, in 2008, the Agency made revenue of 12 million 490 thousand 800 kuna and these revenues were higher by 3.4 million compared to 2007. We are convinced that both this report and what the Director of the Agency and the President of the Council of Electronic Media have said that during 2008, the Agency is partly human and technologically qualified to carry out its increasingly demanding tasks in the future. From the above mentioned club, the Croatian Democratic Community will support the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Electronic Media Agency for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48573	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48574	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Here on page 3 of this report it is said that, I quote: "in accordance with my powers, the Council oversees the implementation of the Law on Electric Media and the application of sublegal acts. The Council also opposes the respect of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive and the European Convention on Cross-border Television and other regulations, in particular respect for human dignity, constitutional order, national security, and prevents the promotion or promotion of software content that extends hate or discrimination based on race, sex, religion or nationality." It is then said, I quote, "that the Council for Electronic Media, within the framework of the established Law on Electronic Media, lays down rules for the award of concessions for the performance of radio and television activities, the tender procedure", etc., etc. I am pleased that these days one of the Commissioners, if I am not mistaken, apologized to the European Union as early as he attacked, while I am already talking about these discriminations, etc., one of the Croatian journalists because he saw the insolence of the journalist asking him something out of context. If someone in Croatia had done so, Europe would react immediately, rightly, they would have called that person, but we see that no one in the government has responded to this kind of behavior by this gentleman who is scandalous, embarrassing, rude, etc., etc. Secondly, I am far more interested than this report 6.1 to 31.12.2008 in this report, which should be for 2009 especially when it comes to presidential elections, so let's see how the council will assess the monitoring of these elections by some commercial televisions with a national concession. And there's the OSS interestingly, I find it embarrassing to say that some are discriminated against that it's a matter of editorial policy. Why am I saying that? I say it for the hypocrisy of those who follow us, monitor us. I am absolutely for Europe, to be clear, but these hypocrites from Brussels often function as follows. If it is in the interest of their owners or their capital, then everything can, and if you do something in Croatia that is not in the interest of their capital, then it is disputed. I'm not a Eurosceptic, but those criteria bother me. Why am I saying that? You may object to the President of the State, the Government, the Parliament, I don't know who. All these people are as vain as we are, but on the other hand, if you object, let's say some media, then you're like the deceased. I guess there are no more vain people than some who work on commercial televisions with a national concession. There's a lot of money going around under the table. These TVs are also the media, let's say the Governments, parties, the Pantovics are making up a picture of Croatia's economic social reality about themselves, and in such circumstances being themselves is certainly the most difficult. I also know that media independence is most likely utopia. From politics, the media can be independent, but the media's capital is very difficult to be independent of ever again. Croatian radio-television is sort of controlled by the government. Of course the HRT pass has money, too, i.e. Capital. Everybody knows that, but in commercial television, the pass only has money. It's easy for them to attack both the government and the Parliament and the president. But let them try their sponsors once, once and for all. That's not good. And therefore, while some journalists may be on HRT, there are also those who are explicitly opposition should be fair. However, Croatia's radio-television is the most objective television. However, here access to this television is far more free than anywhere else, and therefore Croatian radio-television needs to be preserved and it needs to be preserved as little water to express myself on the palm, and not to privatize the next day I don't know which channel as it was with a third channel or before that, I don't know the privatised T-HT, banks, INA and so on. Today, T-HT is ruled by Germans, Italian and Austrian banks, INA Hungarians. I read recently that the unions rebelled for having to speak English. They're still fine, they'll have to go to Hungary soon. Finally, we also had a Ban of Hungarians, so it's no wonder we're going back to those principles somehow. On page 8 it is said that out of 155 publishers of radio activity 15 is a publisher owned exclusively by units of local administration and self-government, owned by 49 publishers of local administrations and self-government units, and 91 is a publisher of private property. Of the 23 publishers, I quote television activities in 5 publishers owned by local administrations and self-government units, and the other 18 publishers are pardoned in private, meaning ownership. So the local self-government units are clearly participating in the possession of our media. This again means that the unit or rather the political set in that unit of local self-government that controls them has an impact on that medium, and that it is also the advantage of some local or similar elections. The question is, is that a good thing? If they're open to everyone, I'm talking about local media now, it should be normal, okay, but I'm afraid it's similar to HRT and some other TV. What might be good about local self-government being involved in all this is just the financial stability of these media. On page 9 of this Report, I quote that broadcasters of radio and television activities are required until 31 March of each calendar year to report to the Council on the advertising carried out. But unless they do so, they are not responsible because there are no prescribed sanctions. On the other hand, what is interesting from 21 broadcasters at regional and local level provided 18. There were no advertising in dozens of publishers, with 8 advertising amounts set at 20, 13 to 120000 kuna. The radio is the most radio Trisat there, so they're probably the most valuable and reported 252000 kn to say one radio, so I'm not going to mention it from 1200 to 200000 kn now. Now the question is, can anyone with 10,000 kuna survive? It clearly can't, but it should also be acknowledged that 90% of these radios or local televisions are like church mice almost without the money being broken and they need help. And a man asks himself a question to help them? So that most of the television subscription, among other things, is directed to these television stations, or to those radio houses. That's the point. It can't be as defined by law now that 97% of television subscriptions pick up Croatian Radio and everyone else in that subscription, so all of these means I don't know how many 21 television publishers, 152 radio broadcasters at regional and local level are participating with only 3%. And then we even have another paradox to say some ridiculous laws about ZAMP we're destroying, for example, cable TVs with penalties 800, 900, million or more than a million kunas. And that's the same thing you should wipe out. On page 13 of this Report, where this Pluralism Facility is mentioned, it is said that Croatian radio-television under quotes is denied 3% to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media as it is called. One more time, I'm gonna say it's just a shame. 3% to stimulate pluralism. Now we see how much pluralism is worth in the Republic of Croatia 3%, and all of this remains reserved for one-party or two-party. I kind of translate these three percent. I personally advocate that it be at least 10 percent or more. Why? Let us also remember the fact that the Croatian Radio Television last year ended with a loss of 500 million kuna, and on the basis of the TV subscription, more than 1 billion kuna. Imagine giving these billions of kunas to these televisions, these small, local, regional televisions, commercial televisions and these commercial radios. What would they do with that money, and what kind of program would they simply watch? It's clear that we're all obliged to take care of HRT, we need to show care of it, but I think we should make an urgent redistribution of the television subscription. Otherwise, this redistribution, meaning these television subscriptions, is very correct for us as it is given on the page. 17.18 etc., and then here exactly how much was the radio or how much was the television station that got the money from that pluralism-enhancing fund. I have the impression that Istria alone didn't neglect this institution in the redistribution of money, but it's true. And then this would look like "Arena Radio" in Pula got 77.7 thousand kuna, "Radio Rovinj" 157, "Radio Istria" 170 thousand kuna, "Radio Zone Buzet" 140 thousand kuna, maybe I'll skip some. Radio Labin 130, Radio Trsat, well above the river are 152 thousand kuna. "Canal RI" 689 thousand, "MIT" 782 thousand kuna, "TV NEW" 651 thousand kuna, etc. But I think it's done as correctly as possible and there shouldn't be any grudges about it. The end of the IDS club will absolutely support this report. Once again, I will say what is correct, but I am more interested in the 2009 issue and how they will assess the monitoring of the presidential elections. Why am I saying that? Because we may have early or regular elections this year, it doesn't matter, parliamentary elections. Otherwise, the agency has 12.5 million kuna. Personally, I believe that from a TV subscription at least 2.3 times the amount should be aimed at encouraging pluralism. The division is fair, it's commendable. True, maybe 35% of that amount of $12.5 million goes for wages, or 3.8 million if I recorded the exact exact information. Now we'll see, the government is announcing certain reductions. If it's for 12 employees, it's a decent salary. I'd like to know what the average gross, net salary is because it turns out you have an average higher than the ministers there. All in all, once again, we support this report. It clearly needs to fight this discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, nationality, etc., but on this issue we are probably advanced because today we are all more or less discriminated over financial and social status and here we are all in the same position. But today, I assure you, discrimination is a little more subtle. It exists by party matrix or ideological or what I know, political. Well, some of them can come somewhere overnight, others can't, etc., etc. All in all, here's when we're talking about these presidential elections once again I'm going to say HRT did it correctly, even if their editor was Mrs. Hloverka, but they did it correctly, unlike some other big Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48575	Thank you very much, fellow Caine. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. He is the first representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48576	I am correcting the inaccuracy of fellow Caine, who is saying that a number of radio and television broadcasters, that they are owned by units of local administrations and self-government. A colleague of Kai's unit has been missing for eight years. There are government bodies and local self-government units. I'm not correcting you right now, so to correct you, it's a common mistake, that syntagma is being used and very often wrong, sometimes we hear it from the secretary of state. Sometimes even from the head of the local self-government units, from the mayor and so on. I think we need to take care of it in order to express ourselves as accurately as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48577	Second correction, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48578	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I have two corrections to an incorrect quote. In fact, Mr. Cain spoke of a fair distribution, and he noted that he was satisfied with the amounts and number of radio stations received from these 3% of the funds in Istria. However, when we look at this fair distribution, then we see that from 143 radio stations in Croatia, Slavonic stations are represented by 19, or about 12,13% which is not fair as you said, Mr. Cain. ... And the second, and just a little bit, and the second correction to the incorrect quote when it comes to 3 percent pluralism then Mr. Cain is not exclusively about political pluralism but also about all the other pluralisms. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48579	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, MP Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48580	Madam Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. First, we may want to dedicate a few words to the context in which this report comes. The fact is that the overall construction of our entire media legislation actually takes less than 10 years, and I think we have made great progress in terms of both the quality of the issue and which we are now considering and then also the instruments that have developed in the meantime. Just to remind you, ten years ago, they didn't even keep ownership records. Not even the programming base should have been declared. One TV owner was someone who owned one advertising house, which, by the way, was literally the owner of television, and it was nominally someone else. The fact that this space is gradually arranged and, of course, like any editing, it faces problems, and it is clear that it cannot be in such a single space for which the entire public is particularly interested in all solutions that some will not cause confusion and problems. What's also important in this respect, we didn't have any kind of media pluralism fund 10 years ago. At that time, Switzerland was the only one who had it, and a few more countries had solved it the same way we did. There were even confusions at first, and do we even need that? Do we need a subscription? We've worked out a lot today. We have also resolved the question of concessions and the question of transparency of ownership at least somewhat. But there's a lot more to be done here. The fact is that this report does not apply to the year before, but also to the previous year, and it is actually the way that this body itself has developed and that has been built up in some way gradually, and now as we hear from Mr. Left, it is built in a way that it can monitor the entire area that has been entrusted to it, and it can also give us a relatively fast report for the past year which may be more indicative in terms of further progress in the quality of criticism and then in the quality of solving certain things. Since many colleagues have been here, and I even think in some way of reading the very parts of this report, I would refer only to the comments, not the very parts. First, there are several aspects that could be considered in particular. This is the first question, i.e. the public of ownership and changes in ownership structure in the context of keeping certain records etc. This is a particularly important issue because today it determines the issue of freedom of the media, more important than the other problem that existed before. Thus, for example, it would be good for the award of concessions or the question of determining the concentration of ownership that, in a future period, the Council may be committed to such issues, because we have indications that there are still certain hidden owners of certain stations and therefore are linked even to the press sphere which the Law should prohibit, etc., but this is now one step further in training such a regulatory body to face more complex and even more powerful functions concerning freedom of the media. It is interesting in this context of ownership to see one thing, and this is the complete trend of crossing the public into private, so from 155 publishers of radio activity actually 91 publishers is private owned. Of the 23 publishers of television activity 18 publishers is privately owned, it will probably be a tendency that will continue to go so, because what I can say for a miracle is that I agree with Caine too important to keep what is in public ownership first, which is public television, public radio, but also to point out that this might be the point for this item in particular, which is that private ownership of the electronic publisher does not mean both private policy and private understanding of his rights in relation to such public interest as public information. It is I think perhaps a new wave of problems, or a new generation of problems, and a generation of problems may no longer be as when we were or had to privatise the 3rd programme of television, it is actually how many private owners, private interests, are able to impose their own interests as public interests and to forge in this respect the public interest which consists of public objective information. In this regard, there are many problems, the Council for Electronic Media which has been defined and because it is not as far as I can see from this report, it still had a chance to commit itself to this kind of surveillance that would detect private interests within certain media publishers in this sector, which is also what I think is a new generation of problems. I think regardless of what we will never be satisfied about whether we have investigated all cases of violations of the rights of minors or gender equality or of the elements of the presence of minorities in programmes, which we certainly support and on what a large part of the report is actually based on, which should continue to be followed in particular, I think that this new generation of problems is crucial and that it primarily touches the interest of such a public place as the Parliament, which is to protect the public interest in terms of the relationship of private interests in the media space. These private interests can be different, we have also seen how they have responded to certain penalties or reactions of the court of honor which have been expressed by certain television houses to certain journalists but we can notice that from the very freedom of the media, even those who speak for the freedom of the media, that in fact very often this freedom is being violated or that it is being misused. I would not agree with my colleague Caine in this section, which is one example of an apology by one representative of the International Community here marked the victory of freedom of the media over such bureaucratic holding of that man because there is, in fact, only freedom of the media, but there is also good taste in the media, so the one who apologized or so now we don't name anyone, that the International Community or part of the International Community that apologized. But he thinks his own, everyone thinks his own, there is also a journalistic honor there is also a journalistic courtesy, so I think in every form that I say journalistic activity does not confirm aggression, nor is that kind of freedom of the media that offends another or that makes him unprepared for what he is responsible for, which is therefore a new generation of media freedom issues, which is a private understanding of that freedom. It has been said several times, and I would also support it on behalf of the SDP Club, which is that the relationship between the instruments that the Council of Electronic Media agencies has to react and the efficiency of these instruments, many have pointed out that in fact the infringement procedure is such something that may not have some direct power, it goes as we see, it is long realised although it should not be quite so. However, many have warned and encouraged more use of the Institute of Warning, because it is threatening so much that after two warnings there may be a confiscation of concessions, or at least a confiscation of concession for a certain time. I think we should start with that, but if we're asking the council to, then we need to know, or we need to be honest and stand behind that council decision. Such a decision will be shared by all those who are very loud and who consider their private understanding of their freedom to be actually freedom of the media. And I warn that it's easy for us Assembly deputies, in this particular case, to ask someone to be strict, but then we support him to come to that strictness. We've had this many times to see how we behave by swimming down the current, because when the media presses something that we might personally disagree with, then it's hard to put on that wind and say no, they were right, not us. This was the case where they reacted about the presidential campaign in one case, which I will not explain further now, but where a great initiative has already taken place about the fact that the private media can do what they want and that no one can be on their way. He's imploding that the fund shared funds in a way that actually there wasn't one remark. I think that in one of the previous reports there were a lot of objections exactly to that. This means that the criteria that are set are appropriate, that they are transparent and that it is obvious that as far as possible for those who may be more directed or who have worked on such laws, and who always include some decisions that always have a part of the arbitration within themselves that it is possible to get those decisions to be so and that there are no objections. Of course, I think that the debate on this problem, as it was on the board, might be able to lead a broader debate in the Parliament on issues of media freedom and media obligations and rights and duties at Parliament level. We were close to having one proposal and on the board and I think it would be useful and that, in fact, we would have examples of which we have positive examples of it now... of the regulatory body, and we have examples that may not be so positive. These are the works of some other regulatory bodies or difficulties they are coping with. It might be good if in some ways and as a Parliament, we have a general sense of what we support and what we do not support when it comes to the media and regulatory bodies and the legislation that we have. What should we change, and what should we insist on? Because I think that as a community, as a political community, so the states as a whole and we as individuals are actually in a key kind of problem when it comes to the further development of democracy, which is the functioning of the media in a way that is truly free, and in a way that is very aggressive when it comes to the media. In this respect, with these remarks and in hopes of having a report for the past year very quickly, the SDP supports the adoption of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48581	Thank you very much. This was all in front of the clubs. Let us determine another debate individually, before the break. I give my word to Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48582	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Leviaq. Today it's quite a quiet and relaxed atmosphere in the Assembly, so I'm going to start my discussion in this style. As the only representative in this House because I'm always caught by this camera so he tells me I'm always behind the pillar. If only one of them would include me being a criminal and not just a representative, you'd feel better somehow. If it's technically possible to perform it. Mr. Left-handed, I'll begin the debate with the next finding. I want to believe that it will never happen again that the council and the agency report are written in December for last year, because this document relating to 2008 at the Parliament was salty on December 7th last year. So it won't happen again. I would kindly ask that all state agencies bring their report to the Parliament in at least the first three months. Secondly, it is good that this report is written in Croatian, because if you wrote it in a language that can be heard in part of local radio and television it would be one mixture with three, four languages and a little tent of our Croatian with dialects or without them. I mention this in the context of this because I also follow up on printed media the report has in it 40% of Croatian companies. Management and management do not speak Croatian, and it is even allowed in Croatia to publish in newspapers only in foreign languages, I do not know if you noticed. And there are no such rules in any Member State of the European Union. But good. Those who wrote this report for 2008 returned in 1999 to find out that we have 155 publishers of radio activity, 15 of which is owned by local administration and self-government units. So, indeed, there has been no local administration in Croatia since 2001, so please warn the authors of the text. But I was surprised by the fact that 15 local radios are exclusively owned by municipalities and cities, and 49 still have co-owned shares. What are municipalities and cities supposed to have their preferred, localally preferable? They have nothing else to spend money on, so they settle their losses, right? That's a little weird. Because I come from part of Croatia where we have no local electronic media in which we would have one change of ownership of local or regional self-government. We're not used to having that, so this shocked me. But, well, we're different in this Croatia. You further provide information about the enforcement of the legal obligation that the state and the users of the state budget at least 15% of the money they give for advertising in electronic media must be given to locals. And you listed the users who reported it, who got and how much someone got. However, whether there is a possibility that you can check or request supervision of whether these amounts that they received are equivalent to 15% of the total number of countries, i.e. users of the state budget, spent on advertising in 2008. Because when I remember some companies, institutions and institutions that are users of the state budget, what was on national television via videos or not everything compared to this amount, I don't think it would be 1.5, let alone 15%. So that's a particular question, can you request a check on this 15%? I think Minister Schuker would have to collect it at your request, how much budget users spent on advertising, whether they could control whether the law is respected, because the law says 15% at least. Furthermore, in the analysis of the situation, the real picture of the radio and the real picture of the television activities of the locals. It is good to warn that some do not have a public information programme, have no emissions on gender equality, national minorities, Croatian languages, education, science, culture. The only thing I don't know is what this means is that they don't have a PPDS program. I haven't been able to identify it. ... So why don't we write it down, then, areas of special state concern, so the cipher would already have to start carrying with us to read state documents. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I would kindly see that you see both obligations and opportunities for local media to function as citizens, to have part of the programme dedicated: a) education of consumer rights, consumer protection because it is the most numerous population, and b) protection of patients' rights. These two topics are not really represented in local media and especially because of those 3% and thirty million pluralism media, so it would be good for one of the criteria to allocate these funds and these two socially useful, above all socially useful components of the programme to try to install as a contribution to local media because they can locally be useful to protect the rights of patients and consumers. And finally, an analysis of the 15 TV videos and 34 radio publishers that gave you thanks to internet television in every part of Croatia is now possible to monitor programmes if I am not cheating on 16 local TVs. What I've noticed is that out of those 16 on the 14 programs at the same time, the same program is going on, networking as cheap and better. However, I'm not sure that I respect the provision if I'm not wrong about 40% of my own program. Now I don't know what the conditions are. Namely, I warn that after you award concessions and they start broadcasting a programme of control over the amount of their own production program in Croatian, I think it was the least controlled so far and should most insist on it because it refers to both television and radio because it resorts exclusively to a programme that only brings profit is deviating from the law. If the Parliament has also mandated you to control and undertake how much of your own programme of domestic and Croatian must broadcast in order to get a concession, then the issue is to monitor that clause, and the provisions must always be in the first place and you will see there are obviously the biggest deviations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48583	Thank you very much. I'm closing this morning's debate. I announce it's three o'clock. Next up, counsel Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48584	We're continuing the session. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is right at the beginning of the commendation of both the council and the agency, not only on this report but on your work. Already several participants of this debate have made one fundamental observation, which is that we are discussing last year's snow. It's not even last year anymore, it's a little bit of pre-scene snow in 2008. Well, you and the board said that there are certain reasons of technical nature for that, you promised it wouldn't happen again. I really don't see any reason why the report should not be made immediately after the end of the period for which it is submitted because it is not even a complicated report, it is not too long, it is being prepared over the years and then as soon as the beginning of the new year it can be completed and sent to the Parliament. It'll make far more sense than this. The Agency is an independent regulatory body, and it draws out actually one authority. The Agency has gained this authority, its independent position in society, and it is a pity that this authority does not use it more often and so in real time, that we do not only get the Agency's views through these reports which are then discussed through the intervening process than that the Agency should be involved in daily events, especially when there are some problems to be addressed. Here's the year 2010, and we don't even have a chance to discuss last year's events. I guess that's what we'll do in a month when public television made one mistake the agency had to react to, because it's really about precedent, one big mistake. It was a transfer, i.e. a special broadcast from one party's convention, which has not happened before and cannot happen. The HRT Council then asked me for an opinion from your agency, and as far as I've seen from the press, we haven't found that in your official papers yet, you haven't found that objection. The main speaker at that convention is beyond social events. As SDP, we responded immediately, and at a press conference, I also requested that the then director, head director of HRT, Vanja Sutlic and the director of Mrs. Hlorka Novak-Srzic's programme for such a failure to resign. Mr. Sutlic is no longer the director, Mrs. Hloverka is no longer the director of the program, and it would be much better when it comes to such an exercise that, if necessary, he will discuss himself in this House at the moment. It's instantaneous. And right now we have a situation on public television that I think your council should say something about, should be published, although television has its own special law, it is a lex specialis in relation to the law that regulates the work of the Electronic Media Agency. But this very independent position of yours, which is non-partisan, is part of the agency's work of recognised experts, who usually works well gives you the right to report in such crisis situations. You said in your opening statement that you communicate with the media in daily situations, but that's not enough. You know, because when we have a public television state where the director is not elected, but one temporary thing is being extended, when we see that it comes to this because here in the Parliament doesn't want to vote 11th member of the council and it's past the law, then I think it's a big enough event for you to come out, to at least put it out, not to formulate it just at a council meeting, so you'll send it to the Parliament in a year to read here, to hold a press conference, to talk to the media, to say what you think about it. That's an obligation. I see here a respected representative of the ministry. This would normally be the obligation of the ministry responsible for controlling the implementation of the law in HRT, so when it is seen that the law is not being implemented, even if it is in the Assembly, it would be good for the ministry to make an announcement. Because the minister still gets paid for it, it's his obligation, it's his duty, it's the ministry's duty, and it's not good when such obligations are avoided. I'm not saying that you have to report for every show, about every petty offense that's been committed, but when they come to the agenda this big, then it would be good to use your authority that way. There's been a lot of talk here about those publishers who own units of local self-government, and it actually opens up one maybe theoretical question about how good this thing is in principle or not. Namely, the idea should be to depolitize the publishers. When they are owned by units of local self-government, they are de facto controlled by a particular political group that holds power in that unit. Often he gets there to shift directors, even editorial teams if local authorities change. I’m also in this political life faced with such a phenomenon that in some campaign you try to get on some local radio, and then they tell you it’s not possible, in that unit of local self-government in power is HDZ, it controls that radio and there must not appear any SDP's in the program. It's a real picture, it happens. Therefore, it may be necessary to consider or regulate it legally, so that this property does not imply the right of such drastic interference in the programming policy, in particular to prevent public words or to prohibit roaming on that radio or television, or to consider prohibiting such ownership structure because it means de facto political influence. And on the third hand, it can create problems for you in the distribution of funds, I publicly commend you here, have done so to others, because this division of money to encourage pluralism managed to make you so that you do not have any complaints, and there are many users, it is the art and wisdom of you, because whenever money is at hand is a dispute. But you managed to do it without a fight, so you had clear criteria that no one could object to. However, this grudge that I point out may appear to you as a distraction, whether it is now receiving some HDZ radio, a SDP radio, that is something that is unnecessary. I call on you to monitor this situation in these very radios and televisions, so if it extends in such a way that if you have any objections in that sense then it would be wise to think about changing the law or changing any behavior in any case not good to keep that condition. With the praise of this report and your work here I conclude. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48586	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48587	Mr. Stazic has just presented a dilemma that I spoke of in the beginning on behalf of the club. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Namely, the problem is that Mr. Stazic is probably right to note attitudes and practice when he is, when in local structures, or local self-government units, something in his possession then he acts as a replica of the political structure that he owns. However, the problem is, in some ways, more complex that private ownership of the relevant media also does not guarantee representation or freedom in some way access to all others. Private property can only be a replica of someone's former political ownership as often in our case. That's why I think that no matter what some think it would be good for the more private, some think as well as I do that it might be good for more public and social we actually have such legal manipulations that would make it impossible for this kind of abuse. That's why I'd be ambitious in some way when I'm looking at whether any ownership structure itself would be conditional on television in a political sense, but the thing is that any ownership structure shouldn't make it conditional in that sense, so I guess you think alike.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48588	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48589	We are moving to the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Electronic Media Agency for the period from 01 January 2008 to 31 December 2008. The applicant shall be an electronic media agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the parliamentary bodies, I am voting in the opinion: "The report on the work of the Electronic Media Council and the Electronic Media Agency is hereby adopted from 01 January 2008 to 31 December 2008. "years." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The report on the work of the Electronic Media Council was accepted by most votes, 110 votes for and 1 abstention, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48590	We are going to the next item - Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 for the needs of national minorities The proposal of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Free Taker, will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48591	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs, ladies and gentlemen. Before you is the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 for the needs of national minorities. This is the report, so this document was made up at the end of 2009, and it refers to the year before that. An apparent delay in the report is the result of poor practices that the government is seeking to overcome. There's still a few things about lateness. As a rule, it is a slow and insufficient process of collecting all relevant information from units of regional and local administrations and self-government, and information is of course an insecure and irreplaceable basis for creating a credible document. This reason should also be added to the Croatian Parliament's conclusion since November 2008 that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been tasked with making a different concept of its report than before. To remind you, this conclusion, the Croatian Parliament asked the Government to have a future report, so this and each future one contain some of the elements that were missing in previous reports. Let me draw three. First, that it must contain an assessment of the results achieved during the period to which the report relates. Secondly, to contain a preliminary analysis of the causes of possible non-implementation of certain provisions of the Constitutional Law and of the third, to include proposals for measures to remove possible difficulties in the implementation of the Constitutional Law. The government therefore sought to respect this conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, which clearly took some additional time to submit the report. And as for the content of the document itself, it is summed up by focusing on a dozen key thematic units, which are: equality, equal use of the official language and the letter, official of course, preservation of traditional names and labels, and the use of signs and symbols, that is the theme of education in the language and letter of national minorities, that is the question of the right to show their faith and to establish religious communities, that is, for a moment also the question of access to means of public communication, that is the question of cultural autonomy, the question of representation of members of national minorities, the question of councils and representatives of national minorities in units of local and regional and regional self-government. This is especially one specific and unfortunately already a long-standing issue of refugee housing and their return, which is a particularly isolated issue of ethnically motivated crimes and violations. And to mention the particular issue that we have spent a lot of attention and the potential of working and financial, it is a question of implementing part of the national programme for Roma and the action plan of the decade for Roma inclusion 2005-2015. We hope, therefore, that with this text that you have received on the table, we have met at least most of the requirements of this conclusion. It remains our assessment of the difference in our satisfaction with the character of the provisions of this law and the character of its implementation. By acting on the implementation of this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should say this openly encounters no minor difficulties. Part of the difficulty is of course objective nature and for them it is possible to have logical justification, understanding and justification. First of all, there is a view of the difficulty of hiring members of national minorities under unfavourable conditions of recession and the overall crisis. The government, however, also faces difficulties that arise for unacceptable reasons. These are, for example, their own resistances, the kind of obstructions of part of the political leaders at regional level that are hidden or openly opposed to adapting their acts to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. True, this is mainly about issues that will be elaborated in the next report, the next year's report, given that these difficulties have almost escalated in the past 2009 but I also point out here because it is a relatively long-term action of a few in the rule of the same regional environments. It is unlikely that from these environments we have the most difficulties and excesses with the rights of national minorities, for example the rights of returnees to own their property and so on. Similar obstructions, similar examples of obstructions have more to do with removing these obstructions, will in any case continue to work. As for the details when it comes to both progress and stagnation, and there is a report on obstacles, it is before you. Every critical assessment of you, every remark, every suggestion in advance will be considered welcome. And in the end, one promise. We will seek to make sure that the report for the implementation of this law for the past 2009 is also presented to you before the first half of the current year 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48592	Thank you. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? Committee for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, Chairman of the Committee Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48593	Thank you, Mr. President. At its 23rd session held on 26 January 2010, the Croatian Committee on the Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of national minorities discussed the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The Committee considered the report as an interested working body. On behalf of the applicant, the report was presented by the Director of the Ministry of Administrative and Inspection Affairs of the MUP. The Committee members were given statistics on the number of bilingual certificates issued to minority members and on the state of the public order in areas of special state care and assessed it as stable. The Penal Code introduces a crime of hate for ethnicity which has been trained by police officers to identify such cases. In the discussion, the committee members praised the report for its methodology and transparency, but above all because of the level of achievements which the Republic of Croatia truly and specifically cares for national minorities. Compared to other European countries, the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia have been found to be high-level and, accordingly, the most resources are allocated in relation to the overall budgetary opportunities. Among other things, the equal use of the language and letter of national minorities, the preservation of traditional names and labels, the use of signs and symbols of national minorities for education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, the right to demonstrate their faith and to establish religious communities, access to means of public communication, cultural autonomy, representation of members of national minorities in units of regional self-government, housing, financing of returns and the care of returnees is ensured. The aggregate and financial indicators confirm that 18% of the funds were allocated to the funding of the national minorities programme in 2008 compared to the previous year. The Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia is pleased with the achievement of the protection of the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and also expects an acceptable level of Croatian national minority rights in neighbouring and other European countries in accordance with those standards that the Republic of Croatia has or at least at European standards. In order to monitor and compare the concerns of the Republic of Croatia for national minorities and the concerns of neighbouring countries for the Croatian national minority in those countries, the Committee proposes that in the next 2009 report, bilateral co-operation, as far as the country singles out for the Croatian minority in the country concerned, should be brought in the next report. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion: "A report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the cost of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. A year.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48594	Thank you. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Chairman of the Committee, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At its 31st session on 3 February 2010, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the purposes of national minorities. The Committee considered the Report as a home working body in accordance with Article 71. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It is estimated that the 2008 report under consideration realistically shows the state of play on the implementation of this Constitutional Law and that it was significantly better prepared than earlier reports, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its preparation had in mind the conclusion reached by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Committee after considering the 2007 report. This conclusion was requested by the Government to make its assessment of the implementation of the Constitutional Law and to propose measures to address the difficulties observed by the future of data and facts, based on an analysis of the causes of non-implementation of certain legal provisions. In the debate, however, it was found that the request from the Committee and the Croatian Parliament was not fully realised. In addition, it has been pointed out that the 2008 report is sufficient that this report gives a fairly objective assessment of the situation, for those parts of the Constitutional Law which are not properly implemented, lacks an analysis of the cause of the problem, and in addition, the Government does not give a proposal for measures to be taken to address the problems identified, as stated in the above conclusion of the Assembly, by means of a saying. The Committee members agreed with the report's conclusion that significant efforts have been made during 2008 to implement the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, as seen in the increased allocation of funds in the state budget, as well as in the numerous activities undertaken by the Government and other state bodies in order to implement it. Progress is in the real power of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, a positive trend has been maintained in the manifestation of religious freedoms, increased funds to religious communities that have concluded contracts with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, extra funds have been allocated for the restoration of religious objects and the maintenance of churches and buildings that are the cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia. The higher allocation of funds in the state budget compared to the previous year has also created better conditions for the work of associations and institutions of national minorities in the fields of culture, publishing and information. Significant progress has been made in implementing the National Programme for Roma and the Decade Action Programme for Roma inclusion 2005 through 2015. Especially through greater involvement of Roma children in the education system from pre-school to higher education institutions, improving the health standard of the Roma population, addressing housing problems, taking activity to hire and provide free legal assistance, etc. Afterwards, since the Committee on Problems has been discussed mostly by representatives of national minorities, I will speak later on behalf of the Club. Finally, I express my satisfaction with the fact that the 2008 reports in the Croatian Parliament are only being considered at the beginning of 2010. As reported reports are lost to currentities and are difficult to serve to define policies and measures that will contribute to a more successful implementation of the Constitutional Law. It has therefore been proposed to make a commitment to the Government to report on the implementation of this Constitutional Law by the latest half of the current year for the previous year. The members of the Committee expressed their dissatisfaction with the fact that the debate on this report was not attended by any of the ministers responsible for participating in the work of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Government of Croatia, and here I can say as chairman of the Committee, that this report, which we consider as the parent body, will not be considered in the future if there are no ministers present. This, in particular, takes into account the fact that it is a sensitive issue, with a number of open issues, and that the central authorities of the state administration and their leaders are in accordance with Article 37. Constitutional law is responsible for the implementation of the Constitutional Law and for the specific laws of guaranteed rights and freedom of national minorities. And now that the debate has been held, the Committee has decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusions. There are three of them, so I'd like you to listen to them. 1. A report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 for the needs of national minorities is hereby adopted. 2. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide in the following reports on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, with an assessment of the exercise of the rights of guaranteed Constitutional Laws and the measures to be taken to address each of the problems identified. 3. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities for the previous year to the Croatian Assembly no later than 30 June of the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48596	Stay, Mr Furio. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, Mr. Representative Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48597	Thank you very much for freeing me from excess calories. In addition to the positive results indicated, there are still a number of areas where the difference between the normative solution and the declared policy on the one hand and what is being achieved in practice is noticeable. And above all, when it comes to the following areas: First, the right to the official use of language and letters of national minorities. Second, the right to represent national minorities in state administration bodies and judicial authorities. Third, the right to represent national minorities in the administrative bodies of the unit of local and regional or regional self-government. And fourthly, the right to participate members of national minorities in public life and to manage local affairs through councils and representatives of the national minority. And at the end of the sixth, the right to access means of public communication. We would like to point out that in all the above-mentioned reports, the issues are listed as the most difficult areas. So it's just one trend that continues. However, in the 2008 report considered as well as earlier years, the government did not give a more detailed explanation of the reasons why these problems are constantly repeated, nor did it indicate any concrete measures it intends to take to change the situation. This report calls for an action plan for the implementation of the Constitutional Law adopted by the Government on 25 June 2008. As it is an internal document of the Government, and in this case it is a report submitted by the Parliament, it remains unclear what is really planned to be taken, who are the bearers of the obligations and within which individual activities will be realised. In other words, the Action Plan is an internal government plan, and the Parliament must actually have control over the implementation of the Constitution and constitutional law in terms of human rights and the rights of national minorities and in general. Here, when it comes to the rights of national minorities, then the action plan here actually gives insufficient information on what, at least to us in the Parliament, is to be taken. When it comes to this, I would now like to talk about problems, when it comes to the official use of the language and letters of national minorities, we are warning of the fact that the report itself has been established, that during 2008, there was largely no requirement for the use of the language and letters of national minorities in the proceedings before the national authorities of the first degree, while only 19 proceedings were conducted in the language and letter of the national minority. Now, we have to ask questions now. Is that because minorities do not have, members of national minorities do not have the need for bilingualism, or is it because both the administrative authorities and the courts actually find one atmosphere that at least, because we want to speak positively, if we want to express ourselves in a euphemism, which does not encourage them to say that they belong to a particular nationality and that they will be used in a certain language. Only 19 procedures in the language of national minorities were conducted and all were in Istria in Italian. But let's not be fooled, only in the Italian national minority 258 times, members of the Italian national minority refused the proposal to be run in their language, in this case in Italian. In a court procedure, the right to use its mother tongue has been rejected. As far as the Italian minority is concerned, there were no demands or procedures among others. Now, if we were in a hypothetical country where all the rights of national minorities have long been resolved and in which history has not shown any problems in protecting the rights of national minorities, I would say that here we are in this one, in which no one really has the need to give certain rights to conduct procedures in a language that is closer to people who are looking for such a procedure, but nevertheless and in fact it is an idyllic situation where members of national minorities have no need for their own language but use the language of the majority. One melting under the European way, but it's not like that. This is because a man who comes to court has problems, and then he has to decide whether a proposal is going to be conducted or a request to conduct the procedure in another language than is the official language of the state, whether the procedure will be a facilitating circumstance for him or be a difficult circumstance. It's obvious that the conclusion is that it's going to be a difficult circumstance. A similar situation is also the issue of identity cards in the language and letter of national minorities. In addition to a number of members of the Italian national minority, I must say that as far as the Italian national minority is concerned, most of the Italian national minorities have indeed sought and received a card in their own language and probably because such an atmosphere is in Istria. In the process of issuing IDs, the situation with other national minorities is actually catastrophic. Of course, it is also encouraged to look for documents that must prove belonging to a particular national minority. So when you go to the police department and you're looking for a ID card, you have to give actual proof that you are who you say you are. It's not enough your word, there's some proof to be given. This evidence in Istria is sought only for municipalities and cities where there is no position of bilingual statute, but other national minorities very rarely have, live in municipalities and cities where there is a statute that recognises bilingualism and must prove to various documents that they belong to a particular national minority. This is, of course, rejected by members of national minorities that they are seeking such documents, and for this reason barely a few hundred or a few thousand requests have everything in common for other national minorities when it comes to bilingual personal documents. The achievement of bilingualism in practice shows that it would be a far more effective solution that existed before, under which the exercise of this minority right was linked to the territory on which members of the national minority live and under which the right to bilingualism is applied by automation. It is obvious that the current solution by which each minority member in each given situation must be declared before the competent authority does not give the expected results which raises the question of the applicability of the legal provisions guaranteeing the right to bilingualism. I'll be clearer here. In the former municipality of B in Istria, so Buje, those belonging municipalities and cities and in Rovinj, you really shouldn't have asked for a bilingual card. Every citizen, regardless of his nationality, had a bilingual card and thus was avoided and the fact that the card shows and what your nationality is in situations where it is actually negative, has negative consequences. The bilingual card was actually an indication of belonging to a particular territory. And that's the only way she makes sense. We've been talking about this for 20 years, and I guess that's why we're not as loud as we were at first. But the fact is that it only makes sense, bilingual documents make sense if they are given to everyone, not only to members of a particular minority who has the right to do so. Furthermore, there are units of local and regional, or regional self-government, which did not comply with the Constitutional Law. In addition, part of them only formally carried out without application in practice. This condition has been reflected for years. It is mainly about the same units of self-government, and in addition to the finding that there are no indications of concrete moves that the competent central authorities of the state administration and the government have taken have no meaning of such indications as to what they have taken, nor when the problem will be solved. Moreover, the report gives the impression that the central authorities of the state administration do not have a clear view of what needs to be done. In the debate, it is necessary to ask the question of how it is possible for a law not to implement it for years, without having any sanctions and thus not being encouraged by those who do not implement the law to continue to do so, it is not encouraged that they continue to do so. The report shows that the law guarantees the representation of national minorities in both the authorities of the state administration and the judicial authorities, as well as in the administrative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, is extremely slow to achieve this is also said in the introduction. It is particularly worrying that when applying for tenders, very few candidates are called for by law as set out in Article 22. The Constitution of the law. There is no explanation in the report for this phenomenon, and it has been requested that the problem be sought, and therefore we ask that the problem be analysed and determined as to what it is, or perhaps, might be considered as encouraging candidates and that the reason for their connections to the legal obligation to be difficult in the tender procedure. It's always about the same thing. So whether or not membership is national is extenuating, means positive discrimination or a difficult environment, means negative discrimination. And finally. Access to national minorities by means of public communication remains one of the problems with which no specific shifts have been made. HRT still does not realise emissions in the languages of national minorities, and no editorial has been formed to prepare such emissions except for individual emissions that actually exist for years, but there are no programs. The report noted that it would step up activities to implement the government's conclusions of 30 July 2009 which adopted the draft contract on the production and broadcasting of emissions intended to inform national minorities. However, there are no clarifications provided for in this Treaty and why neither the law in six months has anything been done on its implementation. When it comes to radio and TV stations at local and regional level, we warn that they do not show sufficient interest in emissions intended for national minorities. There's, of course, a Prizma exception. However, given that they are interested in all types of pluralism and diversity funds, and that the funds from that fund are looking for and getting for minority programmes, we suggest that both the Council and the Electronic Media Agency pay greater attention to the control of that money, and we have said that before. Finally, we express the opinion that the following reports should also show the economic situation and overall social life in areas traditionally populated by national minorities in order to get a full picture of the conditions of life in those areas, which is an important assumption for the achievement of all, including minority rights. And finally, this is indeed the end, we stress the need to continue, step up efforts to improve the functioning of the Council and representatives of national minorities, as their work depends greatly on the involvement of national minorities in public life and local affairs management, and thus on addressing the important problems of members of national minorities in areas where they live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48598	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48599	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Government. We are here today talking about the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds for this purpose for 2008. This is quite a time-out from the real situation today, and so are the predecessors, and as a club of national minorities, we think this report should be more up-to-date and that the government should update it according to a situation that is closer to today's time. A report for itself if viewed in some technical sense, in terms of statistics, indicators, etc. could be assessed as correct with that before we know that he is in some way, that it is in some way a sublimation of the data that actually received from the various competent ministries and their operational bodies. And so, if the whole problem of the position of national minorities, the situation within minority communities is trying to put into these 17 chapters, then there should be a number of concrete data, comparative data to be seen in some chapters and progressions that should be highlighted, while also realizing that in certain chapters we also have stagnation in certain things and that one final assessment of this report could finally be made. But it doesn't matter so much that we say that this report is correct and that we accept how important one assessment of the situation in society is and that we realize whether we are really with this problem ready for some flows, some of the processes that are coming, which are far more serious than we can conclude through this reading of this report. So each of these chapters would be specifically elaborated to get into the essence of the problem itself. And I'm not going to deal with it in this debate, because it's too short a time. But I will remind myself that in 2008, the government adopted an action programme for the implementation of the Constitutional Law and that it has committed itself, so it has given itself some tasks, operational tasks with action, with concrete enforcers, so responsible persons with deadlines and the means to implement these programmes. So we could analyse this action programme, the action plan, that the opportunity is now to talk about it. I will not analyse the action plan, I will conclude that the government has, however, done through a series of legislative proposals some correct legal assumptions and frameworks to sort out this problem correctly. However, the problem arises in the execution itself, in the realisation of these legal frameworks. So the problem is that I say at a lower local level, whether it's local self-government, whether it's regional self-government, whether it's public services at these levels. I also have to say here that there is some progress in all these activities. So if we talk about the chapter of reconstruction and return we can certainly say that certain things happen positively, but we also cannot say that the matter is done, nor do we expect that the matter will be completed by the end of this year, although it would be very good and very useful, both for the community and for the Republic of Croatia. We can also conclude that there is a progression of even a very good progression in the field of education education by default models. There is even a significant, correct financial support for such education projects. We think that the correct relations within the problem of religious communities, as regards respect for the status of religious communities, and at a certain point in time in the budget are set aside for the recovery of objects, I am particularly saying this on behalf of the Orthodox religious community, where it is particularly necessary to stress that there is a correct relationship and consideration of issues by the Government and the need to resuscitate certain objects, churches, etc. I will, therefore, not analyse the specific chapters but simply try three examples of how I see the situation within the minority community that I represent. First of all, I think that right now the most important issue is the representation of the minority community in the executive authorities. We've had extra elections now. We believe that the additional elections, i.e. the presence in the executive government, are a very important thing for the minority community, especially for the Serb minority community, because the presence in the executive authorities gives the possibility that after a long time certain people from the Serb community are engaged in solving the problem of the community on the ground, in local self-governments, especially in the space of recovery of special state concerns, etc., which we experience as one problematic, one problematic space in terms of standards, compared to another space of Croatia that lives quite different lives. That's why we think that, that these additional elections were an extraordinary step in this direction for minorities, especially the Serb minority community, to be given the opportunity to participate in the executive government. But what happened? Something else happened. It happened that certain regional and local self-governments, therefore both the county and the cities and municipalities did not respect the legal provision that should make everything binding by logic. So they didn't agree to their statutes, they didn't do it today. Therefore, they did not allow a basic assumption of compliance with the legal obligation, and these are the additional elections. So if we are now analysing this situation, then we can say in some bad sense and wonder if it is, whether we are creating a system of some legal unity or creating some kind of legal particularism system, where everyone can interpret the laws as fit and take from the provisions of what suits him, and what doesn't suit him won't take it. So, I don't think that's a good way to go, and I think these things have to be resolved, and I think they have to also withdraw certain and conconsequences to people who have knowingly violated those legal provisions. Another thing that we think is very important for the minority community I represent, but I think that all national minorities, unfortunately today and most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, are the question of employment and employment. I particularly think that minority communities, especially Serb national minorities, are particularly sensitized there, because there is a certain different treatment in this matter than the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. There are opportunities to be employed in public services, there are opportunities to be employed in the private sector, so on the market. And there are opportunities that, less opportunities to be employed in local self-government, local and regional self-government. So, when we talk about public services, it is already a well-known thing that members of national minorities have the right to some championship if under the same conditions for the same workplace they run for and call for their minority membership, and this is an extraordinary legal framework, which I do not think have many countries in our neighborhood that are so perfectly resolved by the legal framework. However, everything remains on this legal framework. The problem arises when it should actually be applied in life. And here it would be good to get some comparative indicators in this report to see how much in the courts, how many in the state's attorneys have hired people using this privilege that's been given by law. And you'd be surprised to see that those are numbers that can fit your hands. In the private sector, I have to say that approximately my minority community doesn't have a great opportunity to work. I also have to say one general opinion. So one generation of people has been leaving their whole lives in some kind of old big systems that we used to call combined. They've been leaving all their lives here, they've tied all their assets to them. Privatisation has given them the first cancellations, and it has never, even given thought to the possibility, not to concretely realize this possibility that a certain category of people, which I am talking about, who have left their whole lives in such systems, participates equally in some kind of stock business, etc., etc. Therefore, even from the space I come from, we have such examples that the new owners of large systems simply avoid receiving members of the Serb community into jobs. We also have examples that we already have quite a number of young intellectuals, educated people in the category of engineers, magistrates, etc., masters of science who can't get a job with such privates, with such large bosses just because they belong to a particular national community. And I don't think that's good. I don't think that's a good ID, I don't think that's a good way to go, it's not even good for some kind of economic flow. And finally, in the end, there remains one fact that needs to be determined, that units of local self-government, so the municipalities in which you provide the majority with politics, it gives you the only opportunity to hire someone. Whether through municipal plants, whether in the municipality itself, therefore in the structures of the municipality, whether through kindergartens etc. Therefore, we have an exceptional need to preserve a number of such local self-governments, not only because they are a moto development in such environments but because, among other things, some amount of these minority rights can be exercised most fully. So in municipalities where we as members of a national minority, conditionally speaking, we can employ some government and some from our minority community. And unfortunately, that's how it is. The third thing he would talk about is the problem, as my colleague before me said, the presence and access to the media of all kinds, especially television. We think there's a presence deficit anyway, it's already been established. And in the previous point of a long debate, it was said. We also think very limited access to the media to members of national minorities. Now I'd like to ask one of the questions that might be most vividly depicting one of these positions that I'm talking about. So there's one show we all love to watch. The long-term show, which has ambition and is probably a cultural heritage promoter, folk heritage of the Republic of Croatia, etc., which is called "The Beautiful One". But I have never seen in any show that he was a guest of any cultural and artistic society that cherishes and presents culture, tradition, music, dance of the Serb minority community, the Serb national minority. So, there was no such show. There were no such guests on that show. And impossible that there is no such society in any part of the Republic of Croatia that deserves to be a guest on such a show. This happened in the White monastery when we objected, so we got some strange answer, and among other things, such folklore societies with the omen of Serbians have more members than some other folklore society, if not the same as the folk society of the Croatian people. Thus, such behavior would be good if it changed because of some of our totals, because of some future. I'd say it's some kind of social and social hygiene that's supposed to happen tomorrow. And I just think that this should be changed so that you should be a model of a good model for all people and for all the neighbors in our environment who also have significant national minorities within their territories. As for the funding itself, I'll say that we think the funding this year was correct. Although I have to say that this is one dynamic category, that they appear every day, not every day, but there are new associations that have ambitions to present themselves, which have their own programmes and we think that in the future these funds for funding the work of minority associations will need to be greater than now this level that we have achieved. Although we are fully aware that at a certain point in time when the budget and national minorities were created, they must bear the burden of crisis and recession that was current. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48600	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first gentleman is the representative of Dragutin Lesar who is not here. The second is representative Davorko Vidovic, who is also not there. The third is Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48601	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say that, here, minority members make up about 8.47% of the population, or unofficially even 10%, that this issue is regulated by the Constitutional Law that we're talking about today, with several special laws, that a lot of the law touches exactly the right of national minorities, and that's why I have to say a little bit that I'm sad today when I see that there's no interest in this subject. That there are no clubs that are discussing this subject, that very few representatives have been reported to discuss this issue because I think it is a subject that still deserves the attention of this society. It may also be the fact that we are talking about the 2008 Report, and it is behind us already in 2009, but there is certainly something to say about the implementation of the Constitutional Law, about the spending of the resources that national minorities have on practically their own needs, that is, their differences which, above all, in culture and religious customs differ from the majority people. I must say that this report is in any case more quality than the reports we received earlier. A better quality implementation analysis has been carried out, i.e. an indication of what is not being carried out. An assessment of the results achieved, but I think there is still a lack of action and reaction itself in these reports, i.e. better to say, there is a lack of plan which will either be achieved or the objectives outlined, which will be taken to remove any deficiencies observed during the period following this report. So, there is no analysis of the cause of certain problems, and there are no measures that are mostly to be reported after these reports. I know when I put it on the board it was said there was an action plan. I am pleased, and the government will obviously act on it, and it will certainly be a more positive approach once we get the 2009 report. But I think every report, whether it was about the minority or it was about some other diversity and access to some differences and an analysis of some problems, must have a way of accessing and solving the problem. I have to say that what's most positive and what I'm particularly pointing out is the area of education and education where I think we're really behind Sweden, the country with the highest rights when it comes to minority education. So minority education in minority languages. Since indeed minorities according to their organization and similar population in a particular area can choose between 2 models, i.e. in particular 3 models when it comes to language cultivation, they can choose as much as possible how many hours depending on the burden or depending on the need to learn the mother tongue. I think that's the part where a lot of people could learn. It is also positive that for 2008 there was greater separation for the work of associations and institutions in the fields of culture, publishing and information. Although the funds are really being spent on purpose, the funds are under control. I think that within minorities, we too will have to take care of our publishing about where the border is, or the sufficientness of certain magazines, newsletters of information, and perhaps the means of more quality rerouting. What are the shortcomings? This is where my predecessors talked about a lot of shortcomings. Everyone referred to the great problem as being right to the official use of language where we practically transferred all responsibility to units of local self-government that had to regulate it with statutes. We haven't said further what the consequences are unless they do. And this is best seen in this report where when the office of county offices practically give a report on the use of language and letters, then they say no one asked for it. I'm sorry, it would be convenient to pass the Tax Act if we don't ask that we don't have to pay that tax, because it's also said here that no one has asked for the application of bilingualism, or if he has asked very often for problems on the ground are problems about non-acceptance or only formally incorporated into statutes, and that even the institutions that are then obliged to implement part of that law, i.e. to implement bilingualism, do not know that these are due or even certain county offices don't know that somewhere in their field in some local self-government unit, in particular, bilingualism has been introduced. I think it's something that speaks of inconclusiveness and insufficient implementation of certain parts of the law. When it comes to IDs, he talked a lot about it, my colleague Furio, but I would only now ask the vice president to work a little bit to bring the two ministries in line. This means that the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Internal Affairs must finally agree whether minorities need any document to prove their belonging to a minority or whether it is the same constitution that stems from the individual's commitment to belong to one culture, one ethnicity, and that no document has to prove it by any means necessary. It is a problem that arises and may be responsible for having individual minorities to have very few minority IDs, or if they ask when they start looking for some extra documents, most often they give up the card and say what you give that I don't have to come again. There is still little problem in the functioning of the councils and representatives of national minorities. Even though it's eight years since this law was passed, we are still meeting in certain councils today that they don't have work space, that they don't have virtually minimum funds for cold drive. Therefore, they expect to act in the direction of improving life, work, and the presentation of all that has been achieved in the minority area would be unserious because many still have nowhere to meet today, many still have no phones. If he doesn't have his phone, he can't write a memo, if he doesn't have his own computer, etc. There is still that, it must again say that the 2009 report shows that the government has taken certain steps, but looking at 2008 but also here is the last meeting of the Council of the Czech National Minorities and representatives saying we still have it on the ground. We had a report on electronic media, i.e. the Council for Electronic Media and Agency Labour. I have to say, and I'm going to confirm again that there is a dissatisfaction with everyone. What colleagues said when accessing the media, when information in minority languages is that it is insufficient. Although the x law regulates this problem. I mentioned the Constitutional Law of Article 18, Law on HRT Article 4, 5. which speaks about what is the obligation of HRT, electronic media also regulate it. We saw that we had the funding of everything and everything, but at least the diversity and pluralism that was the goal when that fund was founded. And I think that in this segment, we have to deal with the fact that finally minorities have a different treatment and a different approach to information. Because it is unserious every 4 years to analyze the Charter of Regional Languages, every 4 years we also report on the implementation of the Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, which the Republic of Croatia is signatories, unfortunately still holds even though these conventions and charters were signed in '95, '97. we cannot say that we have achieved the minimum achieved by the Charter of Regional Languages and the Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. So I'm going to support this report. I expect that the 2009 report will be better, i.e. in particular in these areas where action is still missing, something more will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48602	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48603	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the Government. My colleagues Chuhnil, especially what you mentioned about the fact that units of local self-government should react, gave me a bit of a boost on the equality of official use of language, which is normally regulated. However, the fact is that I have looked around this part of Osijek-Baranja County for a little while, so this Slovak minority of the Punovci municipality and the place of Jelisavac. Since I know very much that part and that just at the time of Strosmayer and Josipovac and Jurjevac and Punovci, which were then formed by the Slovak minority, my grandmother came too. Indeed, the question is, how and what kind of interest should be shown to minorities in order to introduce what is laid down by law in both the letter and the language into the official use of both equal and official use in that self-government community. I think that it should not only be observed as it is here in this report, but it should also be followed in a concrete way and react in the next report to see if it has moved. If it hasn't moved, why is it because it really might be sometimes in small communities even inappropriate for members of those national minorities to appear and insist on something that they actually have the right to do by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48604	Thank you. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48605	Thank you very much. I just agree with my colleague Bodakoš that very often we do not actually use the law because bilingualism can be acquired on the basis of acquired rights which both Slovac and Czechs in this section where you mentioned have 33 per cent on the basis of representation in one area by new ones, or if this is defined by bilaterality and all of this should be regulated through the statutes of municipalities or cities and eventually county. Unfortunately, here is what I have already said to justify that no one has asked for it and where he has sought it often ended in the Constitutional Court as did the Czech minority who requested bilingualism in Daruvar where they had bilingualism for 50 years, where the right was acquired, where that minority was traditionally settled there, etc., we have only now introduced bilingualism through the goodwill of another mayor instead of the law being implemented and that these bilingualisms were exercised on the basis of acquired rights. I gave it to the IRS. I don't think we're additionally here by the Central State Office or by the institutions responsible enough to make sure that what the law has given and implemented is not waiting for anyone to ask for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48606	Thank you very much. Mr. Nenad Stazic. He's not here either. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Agent Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48607	Thank you very much. Mr. President, esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to say about this report next. The real report shows the state of conduct of this Constitutional Law. I do not want to repeat the facts expressed here by colleagues and colleagues, but I will try to point to a particular problem of national minorities, first and foremost, from where I come from. As far as the financial sphere and the material sphere are concerned, I don't think there's really any reason for any criticism. In my view, we should give recognition and gratitude to the National Minorities Council, which, despite certain difficulties, is very correct in disposing of these funds and establishing certain relations. As far as religious freedoms are concerned, I don't think we have any bigger problems here. However, as far as the rehabilitation of sacral objects is concerned, I think there is room and need for this to be seen by the Ministry of Culture, which is closest to this problem and the Ministry of Regional Development, because the situation is indeed very complex on the ground. A few words only about representation and employment. Employment and representation of national minorities in certain environments and institutions is a very sensitive issue especially on these occasions when there is otherwise a very high unemployment and when from ten, fifteen and thirty applications arrive at one workplace. It is very difficult to seek justice when all have certain difficulties. But there's one relationship under which I don't think there should be any need to go, but there must be an understanding. It is unacceptable to say in one village where 95% of the members of the national minority live specifically in this case that no one in the post office or in the pharmacy knows a single word of Hungarian. I don't think that's right, but I'm convinced and we're trying and we're going to solve it for which month, two days and there's a mood, it can't be solved overnight either, but it's on its way and I'm sure we'll solve it, and I had to say that example. While it is far more complex to solve the problem that in a public notary which is the same sensitive issue since there are also desert debates or at the municipal or county court that of 40 or 50 judges at least one to be a member of a national minority, or a public notary who is true to the will of the White monastery even promised before he was elected to keep an account of it just for the sake of an older generation that comes to these desert debates, etc. But I say the situation is objectively difficult. The second moment I want to say just a few words now, and that is the right of national minorities, I look at all the rights at the very least with the same weight as what I've been saying so far in certain developments in this area, of course with the majority people. Since part of the national minorities live in western Sreme, Eastern Slavonia and Baranja, I don't think the comparative data on the development of these areas gives a very good picture that they have the right to say this on even-minded development. When the elemental indicators of the communal standard are combined, the overall social standard is then there is an apparent one lagging behind in both national minorities and for me those rights of national minorities are then actually achieved when they have the right to join those environments that have one dynamic development. And it is difficult in this respect often to give clarifications. I'll just point out without any intention to object or insult anyone. I understand that the difficulties are but I was here in this House talking and when you're making a budget, there were examples of building a port in Batina. The port will benefit not only the national minority but also the majority population, which is 50% in the village and we say there are no funds, there are difficulties, while reading in certain materials to build a sports port on one island for 16 million that I don't even see on the map. I don't mind it, nor do I object, but we need to be correct and realistic, to see that this port needs both Baranja and these people, and then we'll be equal. Or, we have over 60% of children not covered by preschool education, and in the same materials I read, 380 thousand are spent on setting up kindergartens. I don't mind it either, let it be nice, but we need that little boy and there in those areas, then we're equal, then we have the rights as national minorities. For me, that's a very important and crucial question. I'd also like to say one more sentence for the council of national minorities. We have already discussed this, and we have been told that the role of these councils of national minorities will be analysed in those environments where these minorities are, in fact, the majority or the most numerous. It's a special phenomenon. If these aren't the same political options, then there's an unnecessary parallelism, one not to say the source of the conflict, etc., etc. I think you should look into it. Secondly, I would ask the Deputy Prime Minister especially for those minorities where there are certain mixed committees with the country of origin who meet annually regularly and analyze in detail everything that was agreed in the previous period, in particular, quite concretely I say, we analyze what my country of origin did, built, arranged, touched the Croats in Hungary, and what the Hungarians in Croatia are accomplishing. That's very correct, there are steps, we can really boast. A lot has been done in the last few years. It's also analyzed what was done there. I think that reciprocity has been established, but I'm not sure that the competent ministries in particular or the government analyzes the content of these minutes, because there are some things that with relatively small funds could be resolved and that it does not repeat two three years in a row. I'd like those records to pay attention. In the end, there's something else I need to point out. I have read the conclusions of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia concerning this material and I must stress here that I absolutely support the part of the conclusions that says that, under the title of bilateral co-operation, the data the country provides for Croatian minorities in those countries. I absolutely support this to be done, and perhaps I would add my one sentence, even finally and it should be kept in mind, as which country, whether or not the neighbour, refers to the key problems of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48608	Thank you. We have one replica, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48609	Dear colleague Shoja, you have concluded that there are no employees of judges who would know Hungarian. Here in the report we also have a report that there is no interest in the conduct of judicial proceedings in the language of the minority. So what's it gonna be like to know in advance that the judges don't know. Therefore, they do not even require such a procedure to be conducted, and this immediately suggests that what we have already indicated here does not have the right official use of minority language, or bilingualism that institutions that should do so do not know what to do, that they do not implement Croatian laws because otherwise they cannot be characterised. Because if the official use, i.e. that the Hungarian language is in official use, it would certainly have to be employed, that is, if not for Hungarian employees not to go that far, but there is a clause in the constitutional law where it is said that it is also desirable to learn the language of the middle, so it can work for anyone, but it does know the language of the middle. If 70 or 80% of Hungarians live in that environment, it's really sad that you have such cases today that you can't communicate in minority language in institutions, and I wouldn't be surprised that this municipality has official bilingualism, at least on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48610	Thank you. Mr. Soya, here you go. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48611	I agree with my colleague, but I must conclude that there is a certain shift there, although it is not easy, of course. But we have examples that in the Cultural Centre of Hungary in Osijek there are children from mixed marriages and even from Croatians they go to kindergarten in Hungarian and learn. And I think that in this respect, especially when Croatia is a member of the European Union, when even more borders open, I think that this problem will be even easier, or will not be practically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48612	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48613	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will accept this report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, joining all those colleagues who have highlighted a number of weaknesses in many areas, but also visible progress and that is true. After all, you should go a little maybe from Croatia and see what this burning problem was a few years ago. Today, even on this joint parliamentary committee of Croatia and the European Union, this is not even a topic anymore. So these problems are considered mostly in that global solution. But since we're particularly sensitive here because it's about people, and not just these general things, and what a global report should look like and it looks good because, I repeat, that's how it really is. However, I will especially mention one, I would like to have this endemic case, Mr. Vice President is familiar with that case, I was passing by near Benkovec noticed that in Jagodnja, a small place, as if the war had ended yesterday. No bricks, nothing moved, so I thought those people weren't really interested in rebuilding their houses. And then last Monday, I was hit by a resident living in Zadar, but his parents, his property, they lived there, his grandfather's estate, so... And here we are also talking about the use of the letter, the bilingualism and all those rights that we have to ensure because we have drawn this by the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. However, this man not only as an individual, but the whole place cannot even drive into the village, believe it or not, into the place. He can't look at his estate from a distance. Well, if he's a brave Croat, they take him with them to look remotely at their collapsed houses and their properties, their properties. Because a few of the volunteers that apparently no one can do anything about it have decided to chase these people away every time. And of course, not only have they been threatened twice that the police had done nothing about it, but then those people who had the courage to bring these people there twice to see have a lot of problems with their countrymen, believe it or not. It seems that time has stopped, that nothing has changed. But it also has its practical conjecture, not only does it leave those people without income because it's dead capital, we could sell, we could build, we could sow something. They are disabled in the regular use of their property that's one thing, and another thing threatens them to lose property. Because after 20 years, they're already going, twenty years, nineteen years before the court tomorrow, and they're going to ask and convince the court that they couldn't get to their real estate. And the real estate, not using the "non-usus" is lost, or the other one, the third acquires the right. Of course there's still time because they all know who they're using without a legal basis, but time doesn't work for the owners, but for those who own this property here, or if they didn't own it because it's true and these people don't know if they're being processed at all, maybe part of it. Because I just can't come into possession of my real estate. I think it's a bizarre situation that cannot and cannot be tolerated near the city of Zadar. And I'm asking Mr. Vice President to read something about this and see what you can do about it, but not at some future time, but what we can do for these people tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48614	Thank you very much. It's past 4:56 p.m. for 10 minutes. And now Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48615	Thank you, Mr. President. I must therefore be pleased here to support all those who care about the rights of the national minority in Croatia, and especially after reading this report in which I have heard from colleagues and colleagues there are still problems and can always improve the situation. But the situation is still on a high level and satisfying. On the other hand, since we do not have a chance in this House to talk about the state of the Croatian national minority in European countries, and here, Col. Shoja has already spoken about it, and I think it is one matter that binds itself, so directly and in its own way, although, of course, Croatia should not view the reciprocity of how it is with the Croatian national minority in certain European countries, but, in fact, by virtue of its constitutional law, it refers to its citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, other belongings in terms of nationality. But also, until we pass certain laws that we have already announced, such as a strategy for Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and when we have reports of this kind, I think it is important to touch this problem. In fact, in preparation for this presentation, I have asked representatives of the Croatian independent service from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deliver to me what the state of the individual national minority looks like, so the Croatian national minority in certain countries and how many European countries are singled out for the Croatian national minority, then it can really be seen that in different countries they approach this matter differently. So, I speak harshly and exclusively compared to the means that stand out and how much. Of course, it is not a measure and it is not a measure and it is not the only measure, but it says a lot. So if we look at it, let's say that the Croat in Austria has 50,000 and that Austria is at a level, at one annual level, so it stands out for various projects of a million and 150000 euros. In Bulgaria, we have 1500 Croats, they are not recognised as a national minority and does not single out Bulgaria anything. Montenegro now has about 10,000 Croats, so after what happened, what happened during the war, that number has been significantly reduced. However, it stands out about 65,000. The Czech Republic has 1,000 inhabitants, but it stands out nothing. Italy is really specific because I don't know that 2100 Molly group around the Croats recognizes language autonomy and it is the smallest group with recognised language autonomy. However, about 60,000 Croats live in northeastern Italy, and unfortunately, Italy does not finance an additional and especially Croatian national minority. The situation of Croats in Kosovo is also specific. So, given that there were around 8800 Croats living there and that their number fell to only 360 or 400 is truly incomprehensible that Kosovo has absolutely not shown significant attention to this so far, whoever was there and saw that group of lamb Croats then must say that these people are indeed in need and that, apart from Croatia, it is of course that the country in which they live should show more respect and more support. Especially given that Croatia has recognised Kosovo, etc. And it's really sad that they don't have more and more organized support. There's a special story in Hungary. I think Hungary can serve as a good example, because in Hungary and Croatia's self-government is formed. There are estimated around 50,000 or perhaps more Croats and Hungary stands out about 760,000 euros annually for different projects. Then Macedonia about 2700 Croats, outstretched only 3,000 euros annually. If the data are correct, I hope they are, Romania is also a good example, because there are 7 thousand and 500 Croats in Romania, and Romania stands out about 300 thousand euros annually. There are about 3 to 4 thousand Croats in Slovakia and about 53,000 euros are set aside. Slovenia is a really bad example, and it is certainly not a European example, because over 50,000 Croats live there, they are not recognised as either a national minority or what is organised by Slovenia for Croatian projects in Slovenia. How with Serbia and the state of Serbia, the Croatian national minority is a special story, especially in the context of the past war and the great, unfortunately large abandonment, i.e. the persecution of the Croatian population from Serbia, is part of the persecution, and in part because of the uncertainty of voluntary withdrawal from the area. So unfortunately we have no judgment there as much as this hour, the precise judgment of how many Croats there are, but the estimate is that there are also about 150, maybe up to 200 thousand. Serbia too sets aside over about 323 thousand euros at an annual level. When we look at these figures, therefore, the relationship of the Croats, or the number of people on one side and the resources that stand out on the other, we see that different countries approach this problem differently, and in fact all of them speak for the benefit of what fellow Shoja said, it is very important that we all approach this problem, organised in a way that, simply at one interstate level, we finally resolve these issues and I thank you for the proposal, or for the acceptance of colleagues, Col. Shoja said here that what we have proposed on our committee, that the conclusion of the next report on, in that chapter of bilateral co-operation, also enters these official data as much as and how the funds for the Croatian national minority in certain European countries are allocated. And that, at the end of the day, not only do these figures show up, but one verdict of the state of the Croatian national minority in a particular country, because otherwise we cannot accept the information as a Parliament down as a whole. And at the end of the day, it doesn't always have to be the way we want it to be, but to bring it in and improve it, we need to have an objective state and we need to know what and where we're going. Once again and with this I conclude my presentation, my support and here present Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and all those involved in this problem, and the office, and the Council for National Minorities and here present Mr. Tolnauer and all of us who are in a certain way engaged and interested in this problem. I believe that according to one of our famous poets when he said while the hearts are going to be Croatia, I believe that, and this proves Croatia has a heart for others, differently for others. I believe that it is for us to awaken hearts and others who are not in such a bad state in our environment, which are, many of them, members of the European Community, that they simply have more hearts for members of other nationalities in their environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48616	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48617	Thank you very much. Recently, it has become a trend to compare diaspora and national minorities. I actually used the replica institute to warn my friend Bagarić, who I've never felt as close to as lately, that in fact bringing diaspora, or Croats outside the country and minorities in Croatia, is actually always one manipulation. The rights of Croats in countries where they live in diaspora should actually be fought in those countries, and Croatian diplomacy in those countries should be fought for. But every time they are brought into some balance of the rights of Croats outside the country and the rights of minorities in Croatia, I actually feel that they actually want to reduce the rights of minorities in the country and Croats outside the country. You, Mr. Bagaric, have the greatest friends in the minority. We really support all your demands, and as far as voting is concerned, and as far as financing is concerned. And we'd like it to actually be reciprocated. There will be no positive, no positive products of what we are going to look for as countries, other countries finance Croatian minorities when they are actually discussing minorities in Croatia. If you want me to, for example. I'll be your spokeswoman in Italy, you'll always get me on yours, on this job. So I'm closing. It's two different problems. Both Croats outside the country and minorities in Croatia should have all the rights that belong to them under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48618	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48619	If there's something I didn't want to happen, it's this, and it just happened, and the reason for that can be a two. Or I wasn't clear enough, but my intention certainly wasn't the way you fellow Radin had it, you know I wasn't. I mean, I'm not that kind of person in our personal contact, but I'm not either, publicly or secretly, not at all. However, I have shown here my satisfaction that Croatia is doing the best it can for national minorities in Croatia. I didn't talk about it, God forbid, it's getting smaller, it's not talking. But I said that what can still be fixed and repaired and that all this is done. But I just said that we don't have a chance, so we don't have any agenda points in the Croatian Parliament where we would talk about the state of national, Croatian national minorities in European countries. You understand? I said among other things and... here in certain European countries, where I have pointed out in a certain way the problem of this situation and the need to fix it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I remain in that we are truly friends in this House, especially you who represent the national minority in Croatia, but also we who come outside Croatia, and we represent Croats outside Croatia because at least we can understand each other even more. So here's the thing, if that was misunderstood then I'm making it right now, if I've made any mistakes, I apologize. But it wasn't my intention. My intention was exclusively to improve the situation here and even more than we now have, but also to work with it together or in parallel with it to improve the state of the Croatian national minority in European countries. And by that, of course I keep the Croatian national minority living in Italy, we can also consider it a diaspora because they left when they left, but they are, in a legal sense, a Croatian national minority and have the status of a language national minority. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48620	Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48621	Thank you very much. Here, I want to replicate my colleague Bagariæ even though I may be, it could be more of a correction, but it's just that we can give a little more of the arguments. The fact is that only a thousand Croats who unfortunately were victims of the Denesh decrees live in Czech Republic and are indeed displaced throughout the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is funding its minorities, but following a report from the Czech government, 2 last years the Croats in the Czech Republic have not used funds. They're justifying it so I can't organize myself. I even invited them to Croatia to see that these very age groups can be well organized. I wanted to show them the examples of the Czech word "Slavonski Brod", the Czech word "Rijeka" that you can really learn the language of your great-grandfathers through such an organization. Indeed, both the Czech government and the Croatian government cooperate and finance. Here, two years ago in Jevisovka, a Croatian museum was opened. It was funded by both governments and a normal cultural centre. Likewise, I was present at the two prime ministers' meeting when they agreed to buy spaces for each Croatian association with joint investments if they were organised. The problem is a little deeper and I'm saying it's not convenient to say it doesn't stand out. It stands out, unfortunately they're not able to spend it, so let's keep it recorded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48622	Thank you. And Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48623	Thank you. I don't know what I said exactly when I spoke about the Czech Republic, but I don't think I said anything in a negative context because the official information I have here, so official, signed by the Foreign Ministry, is exactly what you said. So, it can be read because it says, "Because of a small number of dispersions and Denesh's decrees, they have been displaced," so this is the consequence of what happened "and their high age is often Croatian associations even not applying to the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic." Therefore, this is a confirmation that what you said is not true. However, it also does not mean, does not mean, it is not the Czech Republic's fault, but does not mean that if someone is not able to because they are 800 and are capable of who they are, if they are not able to organise and hire in a certain way, does not mean that they do not deserve any help, support. And it's up to us to take that step forward. Here, we can if you're given one time together to go to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48624	Thank you. Final review, Deputy Prime Minister, Free Taker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48625	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and deputies. Let me first of all thank all of you who took part in this debate. I understand that your announcement is that you will support the report's proposal in itself to confirm that we who have done it have done a relatively good job. And your comments, your grades, the suggestions that went in order to improve this document, and there were many of them, and we all find welcome, are particularly useful to us. In that sense, I am taking the opportunity to answer the questions why there are no ministers and state secretarys here today. Namely, in the abundance of work that we are all doing, I have assessed that it is not necessary for them to be here today, because I am taking responsibility to ask that as soon as possible I get a phonogram from this debate and that every detail that is being punished here will be given the necessary attention, every grade, every proposal, every suggestion. In fact, and I am answering the question of a proposal for a measure submitted as a proposal for a conclusion by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which I accept on behalf of the Government, thus contributing as much as possible to the details of what has been said today in this Visko home. The government of the Republic of Croatia has no reason not to show full readiness to complete both the letter and the spirit of the Constitutional Law on the right of national minorities. We can't say that today, unfortunately. We have not fulfilled this, but the government's determination to fulfill it is not questionable. I have indicated some of the difficulties we have in the discussion you have many of you spoke about details as well. I say, not to repeat them now, we'll search them all again and see how your discussions can be the basis for taking these measures. Compared to the two groups of issues specifically mentioned, I would like to say, first of all, the distinguished representative Marinovic, we know of what this is about. Not only do we know what this is about but we've had a few high-level working meetings, not to tell the ministerial level, to solve this problem. Unfortunately, it's about hard resistance in that environment. Not by chance about resistances that are recognized in other forms, for example In obstruction right now. We also talked about changing the statutes of the county, when it comes to the rights of national minorities, etc., but the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the relevant ministers, or responsible ministers, are aware of what it is and be assured that we will deal with it. As for Mr. Bagaric's discussion and what we had in our consciousness, there are no special difficulties. It is not, of course, about any conditional parallelism or reciprocity in the sense that one equal and one right in one environment means other rights. Our principle is this in every country as much as possible and in ours. In that sense, both the debate and the esteemed representative of Radin, and yours was focused. Of course, I myself suggested that, on behalf of the Government, we also accept this conclusion regarding the obligation to hold a report for the previous year, so in 2009, which will be before the end of the year. This is with these promises, and with that gratitude, I conclude my contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48626	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48627	We move to the 2008 report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of national minorities. The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the conclusion which reads: "The 2008 report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the cost of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of national minorities is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The report was accepted by the majority of 109 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, which was proposed by the proposing representative, and I am voting on the first conclusion of the Committee, which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to state in the next reports on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, with an assessment of the exercise of the rights guaranteed by the Constitutional Law, and the measures to be taken to address each of the problems observed." Please include and vote in favour of this proposal for a conclusion adopted in the meantime by the Government. Please, let's vote. Score. This conclusion was accepted by the majority of 105 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. This is an opportunity to warn you to control the red light for what you've voted for, someone thinks when it's pressed to turn red, sometimes it doesn't turn red, please check it out. I am voting on the second conclusion of the Committee, which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit the report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities for the previous year to the Croatian Assembly no later than 30 June of the following year". Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This second conclusion was adopted unanimously 107 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48628	We're going to the next point. - Proposal for a "National Consumer Protection Programme 2009" - 2012." The government submitted this report on the basis of Article 121. Consumer protection laws. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Economy, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, human rights and the rights of national minorities and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Ivan Bubičić will further explain the report. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48629	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You have before you the National Consumer Protection Programme for a four-year period which defines guidelines for the development of consumer protection policy in the Republic of Croatia in the coming period, as well as concretely elaborated selection and scope of priority jobs in the area of consumer protection as well as their holders. The main objective of the Republic of Croatia to create a modern developed social economy that is able to compete in the international market, the well-organised economy of a single country is based on the competitiveness of entrepreneurs but is largely dependent on a high level of consumer confidence and satisfaction. I would like to stress this occasion that the high level of consumer protection and education on basic consumer rights and obligations are one of the priority objectives that we wanted to achieve before Croatia's full membership in the European Union. I would also like to stress with satisfaction that today in the Republic of Croatia legal and institutional frameworks have been set up and a consumer protection system has been developed in accordance with the rules and standards applicable in the European Union, resulting in the temporary closure of Chapter 28 of the Consumer and Health Protection Chapter at the meeting of the international conference on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union on 27 November 2009. The consumer today, thanks to everything we have done, and great assistance from the European Union through projects implemented and implemented in our country, has the option of choice, has access to information and the possibility of comparison in decision-making, and thus has a decisive word on the market, or directly affects the business policy of the economy, by ageing an encouraging environment on the market. With the construction of a consumer protection system, we started in 2003 by adopting the first Consumer Protection Act. The need for a continuous upgrade of this extremely dynamic system and the commitments made to bring legislation into line resulted in the adoption of a new Consumer Protection Act in July 2007 and its amendment and addition in 2009. The Consumer Protection Act further provides a general framework for consumer protection policy while a specific consumer protection policy is being developed through the National Consumer Protection Programme, based on Article 121 of this Act, during a specific period of time. Two national consumer protection programmes have been adopted in the Republic of Croatia so far, and two reports on the implementation of the national programme adopted by the Croatian Parliament have been drawn up in order to monitor the implementation of the planned activities so far. The report on the implementation of the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2007, which was developed by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in cooperation with members of the National Consumer Protection Council, was adopted at the 14th session of the Croatian Assembly held in September 2009, based on the indication of the competent institutions and NGOs. The tasks outlined in this report have been used as a basis for setting guidelines for the development of a new National Programme, which develops consumer protection policies for four years, which implies a far wider range of activities and tasks to be planned and carried out. The tasks carried out in the report are included in the text of this national programme through the assessment of the situation, and in order to facilitate the monitoring of the continuity of planning and implementation of activities in this area. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship has developed, in cooperation with the members of the National Consumer Protection Council, the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2009 as a body responsible for consumer protection for all relevant institutions and NGOs. - In 2012. This programme before you today was unanimously adopted at a session of the National Consumer Protection Council held in November 2009. The component of this strategic document is also the tabular representation of Chapter 6 of the task review in the priority areas of consumer protection, which defines priority tasks for the entire four-year period, their holders and sources of financing of those tasks. Given that it is a longer period of time and in order to monitor more effectively the implementation of specific tasks and activities in the field of consumer protection, we have decided to develop two two-year action plans as a basis for encouraging and coordinating the operators of the measures and activities to carry out their tasks, i.e. to see any problems in the implementation of the national programme and to develop the best solutions needed. For the implementation of the tasks identified, consumers' protection holders are responsible for the established Consumer Protection Act, as well as other scientific and professional institutions in the Republic of Croatia. What I particularly want to point out is that throughout 2009 they have carried out intensive and continuous activities in the field of consumer protection in all competent authorities and other stakeholders in the consumer protection system. All activities carried out in 2009 are detailed in the text of the National Programme. The activities were carried out on the basis of tasks and objectives defined by the previous national programme of commitments taken from the negotiating positions for Chapter 28- Consumer and Health Protection, as well as the obligations and recommendations under the implementation of the CARDS 2004 twing project to further strengthen capacity in the area of consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia which ended in October 2009. I point out, some of the significant activities carried out during 2009. During 2009, all the rules in the area of consumer protection from the part-round work of the relevant Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship have been adopted and, in order to further improve the consumer protection system in the Republic of Croatia, the Law on general product safety, the Law on Unauthorized Advertising, the Regulation on the Rapid Exchange of Official Notifications of Products which pose a risk to consumer health and safety, the Regulation on the designation of persons authorised to initiate proceedings for the purpose of collective protection of traders from illicit advertising, the Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, the Regulation on the establishment of persons authorised to initiate proceedings in order to protect the collective interests of consumers. Furthermore, during 2009, sublegislative regulations were based on the General Product Safety Act, the Consumer Protection Act and the Regulation appointing the authorities responsible for the cooperation between the national authorities responsible for monitoring the enforcement of consumer protection rules, whose adoption is foreseen during 2010. During 2009, activities were carried out to improve and improve the central information system of consumer protection established in March 2008 allowing for a higher degree of cooperation between the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship as the holder of legislative activities in the area of consumer protection of the State Inspectorate as a competent implementing body and a consumer counsellor whose primary role is to provide advice and help consumers solve their problems with traders. This system is accessed through the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the State Inspectorate and Consumer Protection Advisory Centre. This system is very important because consumers can seek advice, interpretation of the law or submit their application to the State Inspectorate. I would like to point out that consumers are increasingly using this system and there has been an increase in the received items through this system in 2009 compared to 2008. In nine and a half months 2008, at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, and at consumer counselling centres, a total of 215 consumer instructions were received while 839 questions were received through the system during 2009, representing a 290% increase compared to the previous year. Furthermore, in the first nine and a half months of 2008, 772 applications were received through this system 472 applications to the State Inspectorate and 772 applications were received, indicating a 63% increase compared to 2008. In 2009, the most frequent enquiries and complaints received through this system were the areas of energy protection, or electricity, municipal services, more concrete water and disposal, the areas of electronic communications, and the explanations and application of the Consumer Protection Act with regard to advertising, guarantees, product notices, distance sales and other provisions governing consumer rights. The Ministry gave interpretations of the regulations under its jurisdiction. The State Inspectorate, as a body responsible for market surveillance, has taken up a number of activities during 2009 in order to coordinate supervision with best practice of the European Union, and further training of the inspectorates has been carried out. In 2009, a total of 30,000 controls were carried out on the application of the consumer protection provisions and of which a thousand 893 controls were carried out according to consumer performances, of which 772 performances were received through the Central Information System for Consumer Protection in Oversighted Controls in 2009 were found 6 thousand 229 infringements. The maximum number of infringements found in the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act itself concerned the obligation of traders to impose prices and to make product notices known in 4 000 143 infringements while 907 infringements were related to the obligation of traders to enable consumers to submit written objections and to respond within 15 days. Furthermore, during 2009, preparations were also carried out in the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of provisions concerning Member States' cooperation in the case of cross-border infringements, protecting the economic rights of consumers. The Regulation on the Rapid Exchange of Official Notifications on products that pose a risk to consumer health and safety is introducing the RAPEX system applicable in the European Union, which will be applied in Croatia by accession to the European Union. Also, the State Inspectorate sets out activities related to their function in the system of the National Rapid Alert System for Food and Animal Food "HR raspap rapid alert system for food and feed". During the course of 2009, all national authorities and regulatory agencies carried out a number of activities under their responsibilities related to the improvement of the consumer protection system. The National Consumer Protection Council, as the government's advisory body, regularly held its meetings on issues in the area of consumer protection. In order to achieve a high level of consumer protection, the Republic of Croatia has also used the assistance of the European Union. From September 2007 to October 2009, the implementation of the Twinning project CARDS 2004 continued to strengthen capacity in the area of consumer protection. I would also like to stress that this high level of development of the consumer protection system could not be achieved without cooperation with the non-governmental sector that we are accomplishing in the direct sector and through the promotion of activities of consumer protection organisations through information and education projects and free consumer advice financed from the state budget. As part of the resources available for the implementation of the Consumer Information and Education Project in 2009 in the field of public services and according to the criteria of the published tender for four consumer protection associations, financial support for the implementation of the project is allocated to the total amount of EUR 200 000. The planned funding for projects for associations in 2010 is 235 thousand kuna. Based on the projects of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in Croatia, four consultations were established in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Pula in 2005 and 2006. Their main activity is to advise and inform consumers in the rights and percentages that need to be taken in order to exercise their rights in the presence of traders. A total of million 329 thousand kuna has been provided for consumer consultations in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. The planned funds for the work of four consulates in 2010 amounted to a million 329 kuna, which ensures the continuity of the work of the consultant so far. During 2009, 18 thousand 422 councils were offered in total from public services, trade, financial services, municipal services and electronic communications. The main objectives of the development of consumer protection policy defined by this national programme are. First, further harmonisation of legislation with EU legislation, further strengthening market surveillance. Third, raising public awareness of consumer protection in the field of financial services, public services, health services, electronic media. In line with the recommendations of the European Commission, the organisation of a public campaign related to public awareness on consumer rights, which would be financed through the projects from pre-accession European Union funds, is planned. Fourth, further development of product safety policy. The Republic of Croatia will carry out activities aimed at further developing product safety policy through the establishment of coordination of the body to monitor the rules on the protection of economic interests, consumer and product safety and the establishment of a consumer information system for the safety of products on the market and the implementation of the inspection programme. Fifthly, further development of an extra-judicial way of resolving disputes in accordance with the principles guaranteeing their quality of services by competent authorities providing alternative ways of resolving consumer disputes, activities will also be undertaken in order to sensitise the public, educating and informing consumers and traders about the benefits of extra-judicial dispute resolution. Sixthly, further strengthening the consumer protection system through strengthening institutional and administrative capacity and better interconnection between all consumer protection holders and by improving support from local and regional self-government units. In accordance with the best practices and experiences of the EU Member States that have an effective consumer protection system and recommendations from experts in the EU area on projects that the ministry has benefited from and in order to strengthen administrative capacity. In this area, the fact is that in order to implement consumer protection policy more effectively, it is necessary to establish an independent body that would carry out part of the activities in the implementation of consumer protection policy. Furthermore, by obtaining full membership in the European Union, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to establish a European Consumer Centre which has an independent status which, in cooperation with consumer centres in other EU Member States, would provide consumers with information on how to buy cross-border and also help them to resolve cross-border disputes and complaints in the event of violations of their rights. Following the above, this National Programme provides that, in accordance with the recommendations made by the CARDS project 2004, the European Consumer Centre in Croatia will be established by an independent body which will carry out the activities of implementing consumer protection policy after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The establishment of a European Consumer Centre in an independent body is foreseen for the following advantages: simpler insurance... The European Consumer Centre may be used by the services and infrastructure of the body where it has been established, from premises to devices, software use, support in PR activities, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to stress that the establishment of an independent body will be regulated by amendments to the Consumer Protection Act. Seven, support for further strengthening the consumer movement in the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia will support further strengthening the consumer movement in the Republic of Croatia. Further empowerment of consumer protection associations is necessary in order to achieve their basic function, which is consumer information and education. Furthermore, following the adoption of this National Programme during 2010 on the basis of a public tender and in accordance with the criteria set out in the tender, financial support will be granted to associations for information and consumer advice projects. Therefore, the realisation of the tender will allow for the further work of associations on consumer consultation activities, with the possibility of specialising consultation for individual areas governing consumer rights. The introduction of a standardisation of the work of the consultant, as well as their interconnection, would allow for more transparent, rational spending of budgets, and the consumer would get a uniform and timely advice. The National Programme also stresses the need for more active roles of the local and regional self-government bodies in the Republic of Croatia in implementing consumer protection policies in all areas, as well as the creation of conditions for more effective consumer protection through information and consumer advice, the organisation of educational gatherings and support for the work of consumer protection organisations, thus improving the quality of life of citizens in their area. The possibility of specialising in the consumer protection advisory network as their telephone connection has also been introduced. In addition to the already demonstrated measures that will contribute to raising public awareness of the problem of consumer rights and economic interests, the National Consumer Protection Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009-2012 has shown the need to strengthen the level of consumer protection in the following priority areas: public services, health services, food security and food quality, product safety, trade, financial services, insurance services and banking, tourism and catering, in the area of real estate transport and the task of units of local and regional self-government. It will also ensure better integration of competent inspections, authorised laboratories and other institutions for timely and accurate consumer information on the results of official controls in the field of health and quality control of products and will also strengthen the food control inspection authorities. Special attention will be paid to providing consumer information on the food safety control system. In the next period, the product safety policy will continue to comply with the activities of further harmonisation of Croatian legislation with EU legislation. One of the important activities is the establishment of a consumer information system for the safety of products on the market through the promotion of voluntary action by manufacturers and distributors. Better integration of competent inspections, authorised laboratories and other institutions will be ensured for the purpose of timely and accurate consumer notification of the results of official controls in the field of health and quality control of products. Consumer representatives will be encouraged to participate in the work of the national normative body and to ensure the membership of consumer protection organisations of the Croatian Institute for Standards, with a view to monitoring developments in national, European and international standardisation in the field of their interests and active participation in the work of the national body. Finally, I would like to say once again that the basic objective we want to achieve by implementing this national programme is to further develop a consumer protection system in the Republic of Croatia, to create a modern and developed social economy in which consumers feel protected, secure and satisfied. The activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the next period will primarily focus on further development of consumer protection policy and strengthening institutional and administrative capacity, with particular emphasis on bodies responsible for the adoption of consumer protection policies, supervisory authorities, regulatory bodies, consumer protection organisations and the adoption of appropriate instruments for non-judicial consumer dispute resolution. Education of the general public on consumer rights and economic interests through continued dialogue with civil society and the economic sector is one of the priority areas covered by the new strategic programme. It is necessary to intensify the cooperation of all stakeholders on consumer protection with media representatives on activities relevant for the protection of consumer rights. Activities will also continue to focus on strengthening the consumer movement in the Republic of Croatia, thus enabling more active involvement of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in creating a public policy in the area of consumer protection. Aware of the importance of continued dialogue with consumer protection organisations and their importance and contribution to raising the level of consumer protection, consumer rights, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to encourage the work and development of consumer protection organisations by providing financial support for projects promoting and protecting consumer rights. The success of carrying out the tasks of this national programme in the first order will depend on...
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48630	Thank you, thank you. Time's up. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48631	The success of the implementation of the tasks set out in this national programme depends primarily on the readiness of all key consumer protection holders, the failure to perform the tasks identified, and the available financial resources. I therefore propose that the 2009/2012 National Consumer Protection Programme be adopted. as a document to allow the objectives set to be met. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48632	Thank you very much. The committees don't want to? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48633	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's after Mr. Secretary of State read us the National Consumer Protection Programme, we can only conclude that it's not about the programme, it's about the report. The European Union is a complex creation that rests on the common market with capillaries of free movement of goods, people, capital and services, which means trust in the quality of these goods and services, and to establish and maintain this trust is a crucial protection of customers, i.e. consumers. However, this document that we have ahead of us is first outdated because today is February 2010, and we are discussing the National Programme for the period 2009 to 2012. Moreover, even during 2009 the National Programme was still working and developing. The objective evidence is to mention the date of June or July 2009. Thus, he was by no means finished when he was to be finished, i.e. Before 2009 to accept it as a program. And it was written as I said not as a program, but as a report. What was the proposer waiting for, like, 14 months? It means that the programme is adopted for the period 2010 to 2012 and since March 2010. But it's better than nothing. If the adoption of this programme would be delayed, existing funds would be blocked, no matter how insufficient all activities would be blocked. So we're going to support this program even though it's not a program and it's groundless in essence. He lacks action plan, lacks measures. There are certain goals down there and in Chapter VI. But it's more like a set of good wishes. The national programme in this form is extremely lacking with regard to the implementation of laws protecting the interests of consumers in cross-border trade, as stated in the programme and it is said that preparations for the implementation of provisions relating to Regulation 2006/2004/EC which regulates Member States' cooperation in the case of cross-border infringements are yet to be implemented in the Republic of Croatia, which protects the economic rights of consumers. So watch the syntagma. Preparations shall be carried out for the implementation of provisions which have long been in force in the European Union. The Programme itself, for example, acknowledges on page 54, that more effective implementation of consumer protection policy requires the establishment of an independent body that would carry out part of the activities in the implementation of consumer protection policy, and in which part of the work would be carried over and part of the work of the competent Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Furthermore, on page 56, the Republic will, after its accession to the European Union, be set up by an independent body that is yet to be said to be established, that the body will carry out the tasks of implementing consumer protection policy, and that an independent body to be called the European Consumer Centre as an independent body will be established. So let's sum it up. Preparations shall be made for the establishment of an independent body which would establish an independent body that would encourage consumer confidence in cross-border trade, all of which will happen after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. And why only after joining the European Union? Why not now? So we are essentially a member of the European Union exposed to market laws, which means that our consumers also need certain protection. So we're going to have a real collapse in Croatia. We adopt laws, implementation, provisions, programmes with delayed effect until the moment of entry into the European Union. Has anyone ever made any balance that all these laws take effect on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Union. How many laws do you have in college? There's going to be a total economic collapse. True God was founded a central consumer protection information system that should partially take care of consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia, but he had a whole series of problems. For example, it has been recently conceived in a way that accepts queries sent from other web browsers other than Internet explosives. The question is why the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship favoured the Internet explosive and Microsoft, which is essentially not in line with the practice of the European Union. For example, if you access this system with any other browser, say fire fox, opera, safari or other appearances of an English-language interface as opposed to accessing Internet explosives. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, I think there is still a Croatian official language in Croatia, not English. Here I have here... which appears after joining this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] from any other web browser. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then when you start the application you have an opportunity to ask questions, and as a country of origin you are offered either Croatia or Slovenia. Why Slovenia? Why didn't you include Bosnia? Why didn't you include all the neighboring states? What about Hungary? Hungary is our neighbouring country from the European Union, not just Slovenia. When you run the query details, again you open the interface in English, then asks if you want low interpretation advice or inspection query. In other words, why didn't you adjust all the web browsers? I also have information that only recently was it possible to access other browsers, browsers, and can access them. This interface requires a whole range of data, such as name and street and home number, county, telephone, fax, last name, place of residence, mobile phone, e-mail, etc. What about the protection of personal data? Is this in line with the policy of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which convinces citizens that they do not have to give these data, but in order to question all the data force that you then give to the Consumer Protection Association, or to the Ministry, or to anyone. The program is extremely lacking in electronic trade. True, there is also a whole, whole chapter related to electronic trade, but this chapter was made according to the report of a marketing and advisory company for business research in the Republic of Croatia. We're not gonna mention her that we're not doing her commercial. But it is mentioned that one of the main obstacles to the faster adoption of electronic business is lack of trust, and a prerequisite for the development of electronic trade is to remove consumer mistrust in this form of business, and to raise public awareness of the need and usefulness of the use of it. And then, the programme says, therefore, plans to promote electronic business in the coming period, in particular to promote the system of security of the protection of personal information, consumer protection, as well as the definition of codes of conduct, etc. What is it, Mr. Secretary of State, next period? Namely, this report of yours for 2009 to 2012 which we are considering in 2010 used data from 2008 as mentioned in your programme. And what happened in the meantime? Here is a quoted report from your programme published in 2008 saying that the e-market in the Republic of Croatia is growing at about 50% annually, which means that from the moment you put this data into your report, until the moment we discuss this report, that the e-market in Croatia has grown more than 100%. What has therefore been done over the past two years with regard to the protection of consumers in e-commerce and the information sector, especially in the context of your own report, that the e-market has increased 100% compared to the date of publication of the report quoted in your programme. For the purposes of this segment, nothing is said in Chapter 6 of the task review according to the priority areas of consumer protection from the national consumer protection programme for the period 2000-2012. So in this segment you said that you planned promotion of electronic business, promotion of the security system, protection of personal information, consumer protection, definition of codes of conduct and criteria of excellence for electronic trade and electronic business, but in particular chapter 6 on e-commerce, there is no word. When, for example, we in the Republic of Croatia will welcome the initiative recently presented in the French Parliament, for example, that all photoshopped, or digitally modified photos must issue health warnings about the reputation of cigarettes. Namely, such photographs can lead to individuals believing in a hybrid reality that does not exist, which can have negative effects, for example, on adolescents, bulimia, anorexia. However, such segments, such an upgrade in the information sector, are purely science fiction with us in Croatia. So, regarding this program and these randomly chosen examples, we can say better than nothing, better to support it than not to support it. He is like holy water, neither helps nor harms. Thank you very much. And we'll support the program.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48634	Thank you. Holy water sometimes helps. Those who believe help them, those who disbelieve. ... My colleagues Ingrid, your professional, artistic opinion in this direction? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Witches. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't say witch. The HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. She's gone. HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48635	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. At the very beginning, let me remind us all together that today is February 23, 2010, and we need to debate today, and then adopt or not, this National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2009 to 2012. I wonder, I ask you, what has the proposer waited for a year, more than a year? Today we are actually discussing the proposal of the National Programme for the period 2010 to 2012 because 2009 is questionable in terms of implementation and reports. I'm asking what national programme we were working on in 2009 and what action plan was worth the same? And here I disagree with my predecessor who said he would support this National Programme just to enable regular funding. Because obviously funding was in 2009. According to sound logic, the National Programme was to be discussed and adopted at the end of 2008 or early 2009 in order to apply it to the period covered by this National Programme, i.e. 2009-2012. The establishment of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, and the Department for Consumer Protection, which once again has the Department for the Development and Monitoring of the Consumer Protection System, has been established, among other things, to work. It produces, says the National Consumer Protection Programme, monitors and analyses the achievement of the objectives and tasks identified by the National Consumer Protection Programme. Why the National Programme is more than a year late, while reminding me that the submission of the 2007 Report was also 9 months late. So I'm asking why is that? And will anyone suffer the consequences of such a situation? Furthermore, I think that this 130-page document is overly burdened with the introductory section where we have the principles of consumer protection policy, history, which we have already seen twice in the presentations of national programmes for the period 2005-2006 and 2007-2008. Then comes the review of the 2007-2008 Report, which we discussed and adopted at the end of September, as I have already said. In this House, the National Consumer Protection Programme is adopted on a proposal from the Government, and neither the Parliament nor the Government mentions it as a consumer-protector. Under this proposal, the National Programme shall be given a table view of the activities for the next period, which is unfortunately at the level of the general and general. We expected and should also receive an action plan that defines the time and the necessary financial resources for their implementation, together with the activity content. We expected at least for the first two years of that period. And now I'd like to isolate some parts of the National Programme with which I'm going to ask for clarifications. The National Programme mentions the central information system and the need for its upgrade. The 2008 Report indicated that the centre was established in 2008 and its results were presented, the number of advice given by the consultants. So we had the opportunity to read that, for example, the Council in Zagreb through the CISP gave one piece of advice +15, which suggests that through the CISP only one request was answered, and another 15 questions asked through the CISP were answered alongside it. The question is why only one through the CISP, as the report further shows that the same consultation in 2008 gave 8 000 548 tips. From it through its own web portal, 2,000. Already mentioned the Consumer Protection Department and its Consumer Protection System Development and Monitoring Department, I quote: "Institute and manage the central information system of consumer protection, design and edit the website of the Consumer Protection Department." I'm asking a question of his responsibility. The CYSP is the only way to provide information and legal advice to consumers under the consultation agreement and under this National Programme, and has been established, as I have already said, 2008. We representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club are aware of the extremely living and day-to-day changing problems related to this life area, as well as the development and change of techniques and technologies that are in the function of information, so we understand the need to upgrade the CISP. This proposal of the National Programme mentions 7 upgrade positions that we believe to be the alphabet of the establishment of the system, not the upgrade. We therefore believe that this House of the High should be awarded a contract with Combis, which has been given the job of establishing a system from which we will read the answers to the following questions. What does everything make for a functional CISP specification? What's the price of an orderly job? Is the contract providing for software engineering by authorised and independent IT experts? Do we have comparable parameters of several types of central information systems at prices and operationality? Do we have an analysis of the operational specification, the effectiveness of the order? The answers need to be given in order to know what we have, what needs to be upgraded and whether there are differences between the order and the pay in relation to the delivery. The fact that consultations are required exclusively, I underline, exclusively through the CIP, to provide advice and information to consumers requires urgent answers to forward-looking questions. The next issue I am referring to concerns the EU Programmes and Projects Department of Consumer Protection, which is bound by a series of tasks related to programmes and projects that would run for funding. So we're wondering, what is and how much has been done in this area? The 28th negotiating chapter on Croatia's EU accession to protection and consumer and health is open and closed, which means that we have passed the necessary laws, established the necessary institutions, but there is no assessment of how they operate. That's not what the program says. The principles of public policy for the protection of consumers of the European Union after being translated into laws and regulations should be translated into concrete measures and activities based on analysis of the weakest link in the functioning of the consumer protection system and on the basis of monitoring of European policy and measures taken by it. The proposed national programme does not show enough what has been done, where weaknesses are, where the biggest problems are, and who needs to be done to make the formal legal system really work. It is particularly important that what was done in 2009 for which this programme is proposed. The announced action plans to be adopted subsequently after the adoption of this programme should be in this programme, instead of all principles, as I have mentioned the history of consumer protection, repetitive reports, etc. This document, which is structurally and contentally made in our assessment, and with a delay of one year, largely bypasses the topics which form part of the action plans in the European Union countries, and individually and as a whole. For example. protection of privacy, protection of children as consumers, new financial products that are placed from Europe to our market, all kinds of insurance, advertising as a whole, raising consumer literacy, safety and labelling of products that are permanent activities within the EU, although legislation is regulated, but is constantly changing. By the end of this year, Brussels is adopting new directives for that line of marketing, especially according to EU Consumer and Health Commissioner Madlene Kuneva, who will respond to the challenges of on-line marketing, which is already turning strong money today. It's about $1.8 trillion. Furthermore, it concerns the way in which such a document must be drawn up and proposed, which must be operational and concrete as a single driving order, which goodly violates the code of consultation with the public interest in the procedures for the adoption of laws, regulations and acts adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 21 November 2009 establishing a two-way process for the establishment of public policy with stakeholders based on participation in working bodies and on the basis of a partnership which implies the highest degree of cooperation and mutual responsibility for the adoption of regulations, programmes and their implementation. We in HNS are expecting and looking for further activities in order to strengthen the mutual cooperation of all Consumer Protection Associations through the creation of a single alliance that would be more quality and efficient to represent the consumer movement at national and international level. The national consumer protection programme, apart from the literal meaning of the word consumer protection, must be an incentive to a fair market economy and state as a rule of law. This is particularly important in the times of this difficult economic and all kinds of crisis that we are involved in. Finally, according to the National Consumer Protection Programme, representatives of the HNS Club will determine in line with the proposal's response to the conclusions reached by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the answers to the question raised in this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48636	Thank you. The HDZ club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48637	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of honor. We have before us a proposal for a national programme in which some of the activities so far are summed up and the other defines the policy of the state in this extremely important area. It should certainly be warned that there is a difference between the title of this programme itself and the time that we are discussing it. Therefore, the HDZ Club believes that it is necessary to speed up the activities listed here that need to be done quickly and those action plans in order to clearly define the deadlines, the actors and to speed up all of this together. Strengthening consumer awareness is a direct relationship with the competitiveness of the national economy. That is why we consider it particularly from an economic point of view that this is an extremely important document. The fight for consumers in order to be educated so that they can identify quality products on the market, products that are health-resistant which comply with environmental standards, etc. is part of the fight for the market and the protection of domestic production, as it is precisely by imposing these high standards that are actually reducing the competitiveness of products coming from imports. For the last time, we also mentioned a survey on the knowledge of consumer protection regulations where it is actually seen how important education is, that in 2007, out of a thousand respondents over 15 years of age, 58% did not even know that there was a Consumer Protection Act and it was precisely the year when the law was passed. In fact, when it comes to education, we believe that this extremely important role should be played by media, consumer associations. It should certainly be commended for the " Consumer Code" of Croatian Television and Radio Show "We are All Consumers" where it is successfully affected by consumer awareness, but also where on life examples, they try to shed light on a number of cases where citizens are mostly victims or traders or monopoly services and businesses. It is also important to mention the importance of associations, but also the fact that 26 Protection Associations currently operate in the Republic of Croatia, that they are organised in two alliances and that exactly the disagreement between them, and sometimes conflicts are actually oozing the edge of efficiency and that this situation should be changed and that this should be addressed through this programme, but also through the work of the ministry, this situation should be resolved. So, with education, this programme also provides for strengthening administrative capacity, which I believe the secretary of state in the final address may say something more. Therefore, from legislation, the establishment of a special department at the Ministry of Economy, from the Central Information System for Consumer Protection, etc. Therefore, administrative capacities should certainly be strengthened. We also welcome as a club and all those measures that work in several areas from raising public awareness of consumer rights, public services, health services, food security and food quality, product safety, trade to the use of real estate, tourism and catering. And finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this programme. But what we must insist on is that action plans be drawn up in haste, activities, their bearers, and execution deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48638	Thank you. An individual debate Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48639	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about such an important subject, I must first notice that here is this consumer protection programme for me in one part, I was a little confused because I experienced it more as a report of what has been done so far or what has been done in the past years in this area, how much money has been invested, certain activities, which have been passed, harmonised, etc. He's quite general, being spoken as through a document on what should be done, how should be improved in the coming years. And what is important to note is that consumer protection first and foremost rests on some basic postulates that is primarily product safety because we are witnesses now in the world, almost every week we have one big news that a particular product is withdrawing from the market. Here, Toyota has marked the past few days with a large amount of cars that have been withdrawn because of product uncertainty. On the other hand, consumer information that must be absolutely high and perhaps in Croatia we are the most cascade because our consumers are not really informed enough, or when they are informed quite often are disabled in the exercise of their rights. The third thing is, of course, the freedom of choice of products and the fourth thing is that the voice of consumers is heard or that they have the opportunity to express and say what they think about certain products. And most often, consumers and consumer associations in the world are those who warn about certain products that are not safe, etc. I would mention, of course, that I support some of the activities that have been launched in Croatia, above all the Central Information System that should be upgraded with one thing that is in Europe or in the European Union, which is a standard which is a central system called RAPEX, or "The rapid alert system for non food products" which, as its name suggests, warns of products that are not of sufficient quality. I'll just mention that this year, he's being published on a weekly basis. This year we already have seven reports where approximately 500 products have been processed that have been partially or withdrawn from the market because of their uncertainty or have been designed in some ways to be safe to use. So, about 3 to 4 thousand products are being warned through this system every year by consumers in the European Union and I believe that such a system should be introduced in Croatia, especially when it comes to products most often intended for children, they are mostly toys originating in countries where there is not too much concern about the safety of end-users. So, along with that system that you can react to and send to the Ministry a certain inquiry, suggestion, etc. There should be such reports that are safe in Croatia and which are not. After all, it was an anti-recession measure last year announced by the government, unfortunately it did not implement, and it is a battle against non-quality products that our market is quite often and burdensome. What still needs to be noted above all even though I say the programme report was completed at 2008, it would not be bad if there were more information relating to the year 2009. It would not have been bad if there were more data relating to concrete examples to see how in this respect things happen in Croatia and perhaps eventually some market research in order to be aware of the position of consumers in Croatia or how consumers in Croatia feel about this problem. In the end, I won't talk for long, of course we should work on consumer protection. The largest support and most of the improvement in the area will certainly be given to consumers and should be supported by civil society associations involved in this business. The consumer association is absolutely to be praised, 26 organizations are working and should be given more support than is given through these figures shown in this programme. Another thing that I note at the end should be stimulated in Croatian legislation, or as much out-of-court problem resolution as possible. In Europe, the standard is that if the consumer has a problem with a product of up to 350 euros, it does not have to go to court to resolve the dispute but it is usually settled out of court through associations and the association is relevant, of course the one that is roofing or the one who has that authority from the state to resolve the dispute whether it is established or not. For each dispute, it was worth 5, 10 or 100 euros to go to court most often to the consumer's cost and then, of course, consumers are demotised at all to enter such stories and, of course, manufacturers who have non-quality goods or traders to place such products because they know that there will be no sanctions or problems at all if these non-quality products are advertised by customers. And in the end I'd still be here, something else came to mind. How I've been home for a while now. I don't know what to do without those commissions that prophesy the future getting off the television. Every morning on New TV, I watch a show where you watch cards, everyone has a lot of weird names, people who show up on television mystics talking about their knowledge and the ability to tell the future, really there's such a possibility and people call and we tolerate that kind of thing and I don't know when it's gonna be, that's what I mean at 9, 10 in the morning when most people can look at kids, older people and call, spend money and we're all aware that there's no one from a cup of tea or from cards or from telling them what day you're born to tell you if you're going to fall in love, whether you're going to be sick, healthy and whether you're going to be rich. I don't know what to do to get those shows off TV, but here I am appealing from this place to all the institutions, the inspectorate of anyone that simply does not need to present it to Croatian citizens, because really, in this case, consumers, and these are Croatian citizens, are not protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48640	Thank you. Is there a guarantee under control, let's say that if someone is going to fall in love, does that really happen? 'Cause if there's an idea, right... Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48641	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the presentation on this document, I would like to warn you that today is the second half of February 2010, and that we are discussing this strategic document that is already to be applied during 2009. This is unfortunately not the first time in the Croatian Parliament, so we are discussing almost all reports with great delay, and we do not even discuss many strategies. And here we would mention an extremely important strategy for tourism development that we should have discussed in autumn 2009, and recently we only discussed the quasi report on the completion of this most important strategic document on tourism development just to find out that we cannot know when this document will be completed. It is so unfortunately with other programming and policy and strategic documents. I believe that this points to the very terrible insecureness of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this indifference is not only seen from non-compliance with the deadlines of making documents, but also in the already proverbial non-implementation of all strategic and programming documents. So when we bring them and these documents are even quality written, designed, the existence of such documents absolutely does not mean anything in the implementing sense. Therefore, it is not appropriate to ask why the government is making, and the Parliament brings such documents in the first place. Is it so that the ruling majority would satisfy the public or at least interested groups by acting as having a strategy and a vision of Croatia's development and sensitivity to important issues of civil values society? If that's the case, and I'm afraid it is, it's a simple farce. It is indisputable that the protection of consumer rights falls within one of the most important issues of modern society, because it is a very wide area that includes just all members and members of our society, in other words all of us who buy a product or service every day. And the fact is that the situation in Croatia with regard to consumer and consumer protection is not at all brighter. Our rights are being violated almost daily, regardless of whether or not trading entities are manipulating so-called. special offers that have been exhausted before or before they have been opened or are about manipulation of insufficiently clear price emphasis, non-transpa-rent bills for telecommunications services, bullying the audience in cinemas by displaying countless ads and for our money, incorrect declarations on food and other products, selling health inquiry products regardless of whether they are underwear, toy or toy, selling copies instead of originals for the price of the original, etc. The potential for the depriving of consumer and consumer rights in market economies is almost limitless and only when one method is slightly subdued by wings some new forms of violations of consumer and consumer rights appear. For this very reason, it is extremely important that as a state, we recognise this problem and have prepared solutions that we protect and promote consumer and consumer rights. I am afraid that in Croatia, we also have a great deal to do in countering consumer and consumer rights violations by well-known methods, and that the disclosure of new methods of violations of our rights is not to speak. I repeat in this sense that today we are discussing a document that was to be applied already last year, which speaks in favour of the ruling majority and does not give an excessive interest in this issue, because if the document had been prepared and discussed in the autumn of 2008 and would have started to apply already in early 2009. This has not happened for some reason, and we have no excuse or reasonable arguments from the Government on the reasons for the delay in this document can only speculate on the reasons and doubt that it is the pressures of certain powerful corporate circles which are not in the interest of implementing an effective policy of consumer and consumer rights. And that would be a terrible thing to say once. I sincerely hope this isn't the case here, but until we get some reasonable explanation of this delay by the officials and government officials we have the right to express such doubts. When I talk about the content of this document, I want to say that it is not immune to criticism. I also remind you that the Union of Consumer Protection Associations has made a series of remarks on the account of this document, and I must conclude that most of these remarks are of a financial nature, and since it is a roof consumer and consumer protection association that is certainly more than invited to comment on such a document, I believe that all the observations of the Union of Associations must be taken seriously into consideration. I welcome the applicant's decision to actively include consumer protection organisations in drawing up the document because this has positively affected the quality of the document we are discussing today. In this regard, I am expressing hope that the motionor, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship will also consider these observations and amendments to the Government will correct this extremely important document. I recall, the Union of Consumer Protection Associations believes that the document needs to redefine the place and role of consumer counselling in order to achieve a more efficient, faster, cheaper and more quality provision of counselling services. I also find it rational to consider a proposal to set up a national counselling centre and to use counselling services, specialists and specialists organised at national level to resolve cases that cannot be resolved at counselling centres. The Alliance of Associations proposes to strengthen the role of regional and local self-government in financing local consultations, and since associations are almost entirely committed to funding from state, local or regional self-government should in any case consider such solutions. Obviously, the funds that associations manage to implement from the European Union and other funds are not enough to raise the quality of the labour intensity of associations. Since this document shows that the implementation of the programme will finance the largest part of the state budget and the budget of the units of local and regional self-government, and only then of the European Union funds, it may be necessary to consider financing certain projects of associations or at least two associations and funds of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, or that a certain percentage of the money from their memberships should be used to improve consumer and consumer rights, as this would certainly have a positive impact on raising the quality of Croatian products and services, and this should certainly be our goal in our ambition to raise the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. In the end, I would like to conclude that this strategic document The National Consumer Protection Programme is somewhat more like a report, which was spoken of by both predecessors and predecessors, and less as a plan or programme of action. Most of the text in this document is a description of what has been done in the last few years, especially since the adoption of the Consumer Protection Act in 2007. What the document says can give the impression that Croatia has done most of the work legally and institutionally, since the roof law as well as the sublegal acts have been drawn up and adopted, the legislation is mostly in a horizontal and vertical sense in line with the European Union roof law and resolution directives, administrative capacity has been created for the implementation of laws within the meaning of the competent department of the Ministry of Economy, the cooperation of state and local authorities with 26 associations and 2 roof associations, the establishment of counselling offices and the National Consumer Protection Council, and the Central Information System, until the courts honors of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate. We also have a specialized show on state television that works in quality to inform and educate the Croatian public about this issue. However, the situation in Croatia with regard to consumer rights protection is not good, and I did not get the impression that, despite its administrative and legislative arrangements in this area, the situation has significantly improved in the last few years, especially since 2007, when the Consumer Protection Act was passed, and this indicates that despite the quality laws and the existence of all necessary instruments and administrative capacities in Croatia, there is no political will for the real, quality and effective implementation of both legal and sublegal documents. And for this reason, although I will support the adoption of this document, I cannot express from this place any concern that the implementation of this document, in the most important sense, will remain only a dead letter on paper, while strengthening the rights of consumers and consumers in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48642	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48643	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The motto of many consumer protection associations is the famous saying that should never doubt the ability of a group of serious and committed citizens to change the world. On the contrary, they have changed it. This whole National Consumer Protection Programme should have gone and I think it would have a fundamental one purpose to empower consumers. In fact, many countries that have understood the role of such consumers know that they are actually helping the country itself to take over a good part of the country's social role. Because unfortunately, especially in our society when few people produce and consumers we are all legislation is not enough. In addition to consumer policy, it is also important to have guidelines for a good practice, so strong consumer organisations that are aware of the rights of individuals are very important to us. In fact, one Germany sets aside huge funds for these associations, where it usually works for several professionals. That's not the way it is with us. State resources are small and insufficient. Local communities, especially if they criticise a particular policy, i.e. above all, their inadequate working conditions are completely, completely marginalised, and people are perverted by a variety of chicane behaviors. Since 1992, when the General Security Directive came into force later, it has been extended to toys, to things on cosmetic equipment, to pharmaceuticals, to machines, to recreational equipment. However, how many things have changed? The truth is, there's a lot more to talk about these problems, but there are equally more inadequate products. So I have the impression that the more guidance, the more the directive, the change of laws, such or similar programmes, of course the national programme is, and most importantly, the more the consumer's rights are being threatened. And why is that? It seems to me precisely because we have to and should think about preventive action. While we still had the notion of consumers in these political areas, there was absolutely no unknown phenomenon you could not simply buy or be placed on the market a dangerous product. Today we have consumer protection, and on the shelves there are also what counterpart Maras said are the services of some kind of good experts, a good doctor, a good scribe and all kinds of cursive professions. How do you protect yourself from such an illegal above all? There have been cases, yet, already five, six years when honey was sold and one of them, it seems to me that even in the government was one of the officials and it was taste, the smell of honey, but honey didn't, honey didn't even see a sound. The public wanted to know who it was that put it on the market, which is that famous producer. However, we couldn't get the information on who the manufacturer was. The media have guessed and today we have such a pain, and the basic prevention would be exactly and I don't know who's afraid of such merchants or producers to place such persons, or persons who have sinned on the market a harmful product, to publicly disclose their names. Those who tried to go in that direction were thrown out by procedures with uncertain outcomes. Those who point out precisely from the Consumers' Association at local levels about such companies are intimidated, threatened, feared simply by people because they were later left for mercy and mercy and there is no one to protect them. They're not whistlers, so they don't have any kind of formal protection. Therefore, it would be essential that no business secret can be done here when it comes to such persons, whether it is physical or legal persons, I repeat once again what preventive programs we are doing, what our inspections are doing, and how possible it is, because it is mainly about the slavery of foreign origin. How is it possible to bring this stuff in? That garbage. And then we, therefore, create a problem, and the state is responsible for it, and then we spend what kind of means to protect ourselves from it. And our products, first of all agricultural products have no placements. That's what would lead us to a little wider story. So, the main thing is that we have consumer protection, I'm not telling you this, you're obviously doing what you can do in that situation, but it's not a problem here, so it's already started with consumer protection, you're probably acting then post-festum, but maybe to think about this role of preventive action related to customs administration, with inspection supervision, that we really do have people being protected. We used to believe a few more years ago that at least pregnant women, if at least children, so these children's products, cosmetic products, food, toys were protected, so that someone wouldn't dare put such unverified products on the market. But we can see that's not the way it is. Even medications. She's already known to say that we've been looking for a cure for disease, and now we're looking for a disease to sell a cure, which, of course, will, when it comes to such a logic that it hurts more than it helps anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48644	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48645	... You mention it in this report. [[Specially enabled.]] However, you also say in the programme that by the end of the fourth quarter of 2009 the alignment of the relevant Croatian regulation on units of measurement will be carried out, as Directive 80/111 on units of measurement is replaced by Directive 2009/3. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, what does a temperature of 25 microcellins mean to you? Nothing, because our economy is in such a catastrophic state that they don't really need to possibly measure such low temperatures. However, the fact is that one of our competent laboratories achieves such accuracy and essentially operates beyond the law, since you have not adopted a regulation on measurement units that is in accordance with the European Directive and the three-point water defined as defined by the world as well, and not as provided for by the current regulation in force in the Republic of Croatia. In this programme of yours, you are essentially very commendable about accreditation which plays a key role in assessing compliance and establishing trust in the competence of certain laboratories, whether tested or moderate, which play a key role in the product study, therefore also in consumer protection. However, the fact is that accreditation cannot function without other factors of quality infrastructure, primarily the Croatian Bureau of Standards, and the system of measurement. In fact, the measurement is what ensures traceability, and the State Monitoring Institute is only providing in the legal segment, while the National Measurement Institute does the same in fundamental measurement. For example, how important this measurement is, for example, one study in Great Britain that says that a vast part of the UK’s gross social product is one way or another dependent on measurement. This is measured by two-digit numbers. There are no similar studies for Croatia, but we as ordinary citizens and consumers can only have faith that something really is as much as we either tanked or bought a mass of something or so on. As far as fundamental measurement is concerned, the situation is very different. The government has committed itself to establishing a national measuring institute that has not yet been operational. The truth is, I am now speaking to the wrong secretary of state because the National Measurement Institute is under the domain of the Ministry of Science, but since time has been your concern, so we are discussing this programme for 2009, at the same time the National Monitoring Institute as the National Measurement Institute was in your domain. The fact is that the National Measurement Institute is not functioning, which is contrary to Article 73. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement and, as an instrument of Croatian accession to full EU membership, because it explicitly states that Croatia must have a National Measurement Institute, which must be a member of EUROMETA, or a European Monitoring Organisation, or Association of Measurement Institutes. However, in our old custom in Croatia, that is, our negotiators promise everything, and they keep little and so it is still a member of EUROMETA The National Bureau of Measurement, which is essentially not entitled to it because it does not deal with fundamental measurement, but it is engaged in legal measurement and it must be, which it is, a member... So, the Association of Measurement Institutes in Legal Measurement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The National Measurement Institute simply does not want, as a troubled child, to allow the National Measurement Institute to function at all, breathe and perform its function for which it should be established. As a result, we in the Republic of Croatia do not have or question the traceability of international ethlons, masses, moisture, ionising radiation and other units. So our entire quality infrastructure system is collapsing in the Republic of Croatia and we will find ourselves in great wonder after we have met almost all the measures and criteria. After we handed General Haag over. That we will not enter the EU for seemingly banal reasons, because our quality infrastructure is not working. We now have a paradoxical situation that the National Bureau of Measurement is laying down regulations, implementing regulations, overseeing inspections in the classic conflict of interest, and even in the area that does not belong to it and which today is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science, and not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy. And finally, I'm asking a rhetorical question, Mr. Secretary of State, do you know that certain closed chapters, temporarily closed chapters because of these situations can be reopened, and that open chapters such as freedom of movement of goods will never be closed because of the failure of quality infrastructure. And I urge you to do something recently related to this burning problem, in cooperation with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48646	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48647	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Getting ready for this debate, I thought I'd be pretty critical of the document's proposal, but then one thing made me watch what it says again. In fact, I've seen an association that's named and presented as the Consumer Rights Association is a terrible thing against this document, and it's made me look at it again and see their motives why? And let me say right away as soon as that association and that president of that association against this document are I, by nature, have to be in favor. And as soon as she's against it, it means this document is good. He's late, though, that's true, but I'll support him. Secondly, what I want to say is that my second reason for supporting him is what I found on page 55, which points out that, finally or finally, by 2012 in Croatia, an independent body will be established, which will, in part of the state government, deal with consumer protection because it has shown and proved that the existing system, which was mostly based on associations and association of consumer associations with these 4 counselling centres, has shown ineffective, not good and expensive compared to the results achieved. But he would advise, suggest and warn three things. First, when you are going to do the operational implementation of this programme, especially in the context of this independent body, make sure that it has to be operational 24 hours, 365 days a year and at least in 2 world languages. We are a tourist country and with us consumers are not only Croatian citizens but also our tourists. The minimum culture of the tourist country is to allow every consumer to receive advice immediately, not on Monday morning of 9:30 or 9 concluded by 3, when usually the counselling centres that we have now stopped working. So, the State Agency that's going to be in office 24 hours like that outside. Secondly, or do we have the right in the context of the legal gain of the EU as some other EU merchants, within the meaning of this law, to be obliged to have at the place of payment their number of telephones for protection or complaints from consumers, which is less important, but what interests me is that we have the right by law to force each or every cashier to be that free phone where every consumer can and by heart learn that number? How many citizens of Croatia know about the phone numbers of these 4 centres in Osijek, Zagreb, Split and Rijeka? Take a look outside and you will see that the phone number, the free phone number for the State Service consumer counseling is practically in each place where the consumer is on the one hand, and on the other hand the trader. Secondly, I understand Europe, but I don't understand how it is possible to allow us to buy milk, broth, meet, rice, diet, shuze, fridge, wine, beer, sausage, potato, paste in Croatia. Have you noticed that Croatian language has disappeared from Croatian stores. Not only from product declarations, but also the title of the facility. And when you're watching a commercial on the building, you don't know if you're selling baby food or pornography behind that door. In Croatia it is possible to register, advertise and work in foreign languages, and for example try in neighbouring Slovenia to do so which is a member of the European Union, so you will see that there is a possibility that a Member State of the European Union can regulate the use of foreign languages, expressions and terms in trade. I'm afraid in ten years, the Croatian language won't even be printed on the register anymore. And one more thing. If it's enough to ask you now, Mr. Secretary of State, if it isn't, I'm going to ask a representative question. According to several laws of companies dealing with services and providing services to citizens or others, they must be representatives of the Consumer Protection Association in administrative and supervisory bodies. It cannot otherwise be established or registered. I ask the Croatian public and Croatian consumers to make it public or to me first, and then publicly publish the lists of all consumer representatives who, by the letter of that law, have been elected to the administrative or supervisory bodies of all companies that the law obliges to have representatives of the Consumer Association in their composition. This is also the name and last name of the representative, whose name is the association that has delegated him and the amount of the compensation that they make in those supervisory and administrative bodies for the territory of the whole country, with the date of your own establishment. Consumers, citizens and this Assembly have the right to know who, by the laws we have passed, are represented by consumers in these company supervisory bodies when we have already forced them to have them in their composition. This information will be very interesting in the context of public speech, actions and appearances of many presidents of associations, alliances that are Godlessly dissatisfied with this programme, and it seems to me that their dissatisfaction does not stem from the programme, but from the knowledge that the peach, cash, which the leak is finally going to be slightly less.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48648	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to the next point. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48649	You said that you were more encouraged by the fact that by 2012, an independent body would be established to carry out part of the activities of consumer protection policy. However, if more carefully read, preparations are made for the establishment of an independent body, which would establish an independent body that would encourage consumer confidence in cross-border trade, all of which will happen after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which means that somewhere in 2014, we will discuss a new programme to explain why this body is founded or not established. So why is this body not already established in 2010 when it is an extremely important factor for consumer protection especially in the context of the larger tourist inflow that we all want so much and anti-cicipating.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48650	Replication response, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48651	Well, my colleague Franic, I don't know if we're reading the same document. "The following is an indication of the need to establish an independent body in the Republic of Croatia and in which part of the work would be carried over by a part of the work of the competent ministry." I'm decrypting this as an agency. Why not before? Because the establishment of a consumer protection agency I represent and look for two years here in the Croatian Parliament only until now and I have never heard that anyone else advocates the establishment of the agency. Probably because there was not enough pressure on the executive power to finally realize that, like other members of the European Union, we can only protect consumers by such an agency. So if it's up to 2012, I'll be happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48652	Thank you. I'm closing the debate now.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48653	We move to the 2009/2012 proposal for a national consumer protection programme. The debate is closed. The Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government has proposed a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly, which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to amend the name of the act in question by its amendment, so that the name is the Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2010/2013. it shall coordinate the contents of the acts with the period to which that act relates.’. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to manifest himself. State Secretary Ivan Bubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48654	The first conclusion is not accepted. The proposed conclusion of the Committee is considered unacceptable as the change in the title and content of the 2009/2012 National Consumer Protection Programme proposal would be unacceptable. in the proposal for a national consumer protection programme for the period 2010/2013 prevents the continuity of the implementation of priority tasks and activities and significantly extends the adoption of a new National Programme due to the long-term process of compliance with all stakeholders in the implementation of consumer protection policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48655	Thank you. I am voting on the conclusion of a committee that the government does not accept. Let's get involved and vote. Score. This Committee conclusion was not accepted because it received 29 votes for, 3 abstentions and 78 against. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the proposal for a national programme for the period 2009/2012. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The national consumer protection programme for this period was accepted by the majority of 83 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 5 against. The Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government proposed to the Assembly another conclusion, which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a report to the Croatian Assembly on the achievement of consumer protection policy for 2009 at the latest on 30 September 2010. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48656	The second conclusion is not accepted. In accordance with the above mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia, a report on the achievement of consumer protection policy from the 2009 National Consumer Protection Programme will inform the Croatian Assembly of the 2009 activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48657	Therefore, even this second proposal for a conclusion by the Committee is not accepted by the Government. I am putting the Committee's proposal to vote, please include on the proposal for a second conclusion of the Committee. Score. This second conclusion was also not accepted because it received 34 votes for, 1 abstention and 74 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48658	We are therefore going to the next point - State and management report for 2008 with financial indicators The applicant is the Government who submitted this report on the basis of Article 6. The Strategic Stocks Act. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy, Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Ivan Bubic will further explain the report briefly.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48659	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. The State supply operations in 2008 took place in accordance with the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act applicable to budget and budget users, and decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The law lays down that strategic stock supplies for the provision of basic supplies at a time of war or direct threat, independence, unity and survival of the Republic of Croatia, and in the case of major natural disasters and technical technological and environmental disasters. Stock supplies can also be used to provide urgent assistance to other countries in case of disasters, humanitarian aid, and in case of participation of the Republic of Croatia forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad. Stock stocks cannot be used to remove disturbances and instability on the market. The report on the state and management of stock stocks is a shortened display of stock stock management for 2008. In accordance with the legal provisions, a regular annual list of state stocks was made as of 31.12.2008. The list was carried out by the inventory commissions of the warehouser and was attended by representatives of the Directorate for Stocking. Ignoring deficits amounting to 4000 636 kuna three sleeping bags and 35 blankets have been observed. In the structure of the 2008 strategic stock supply, the highest value is 13 product types 93% of total stocks, and that eurodisel fuel 26%, wheat 12, meat 11, lube 9%, meat, fish and other cans 7%, whole-day dry meal 6%, tents, bags, Polish beds, bed linen 5%. In 2008, the purchase of goods worth 88 million kuna was made. Total revenues and receipts in 2008 amount to 107 million 212 thousand 045 kuna and total expenditures 111 million 7 000 526 kuna, resulting in a lack of income and income of 3 million 795 thousand 481 kuna. The lack of income and income is covered by surplus income and income from earlier years. A total of 81 million 489 thousand and 7 kuna is the available surplus of income and income in the next period. Excess revenue will be used in accordance with Article 16. The Strategic Stocks Act for the purchase of strategic stocks according to the balance sheet amounting to 68 million 889 thousand and 6 kuna from the investment of the current investment maintenance of the warehouse owned by the State Stocks. On the basis of the above, we can conclude that in 2008, a number of activities were carried out and the basic characteristics of the business were the regular exercise of stockpiles control, the value of the strategic stockpiles was 55% higher than in 2007, increased costs for the purchase of strategic supplies compared to the year 2007 by 98%, the purchase of strategic stock supplies amounting to 88 million kuna, reduced commitments and long-term claims, revenues achieved from State stockpiles were paid to a single State budget account, the renewal of strategic stock stocks of corn and wheat in order to preserve quality. The situation in the stocks shall be such that the circumstances set out in Article 2 arise at any time. The Strategic Stocks Act can... i.e. in cases of natural disasters and disasters and also in the need to send humanitarian aid to other countries such as the recent case of humanitarian aid being sent to the Republic of Albania. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The costs of keeping and restoring the strategic commodity stocks shall be maximumly rationalised and the stocking of stocks shall be continuously carried out in accordance with the financial opportunities or availability of State budget funds and funds from regular operations with strategic commodity stocks, without prejudice to the functionality of the strategic stocks. In cases of non-compliance with contractual obligations such as the recent Đakovština d.d. case Đakovo The Directorate for Stocks shall take all legal actions to ensure the return of goods, make an administrative decision on the return of goods, file criminal charges against the company and the responsible persons, ensure the payment of the insurance assets that are part of the contract, shall be charged as an executive believer in money and all in order to protect the assets and interests of the Republic of Croatia. Đakovština d.d. case Đakovo is the first case since 2004 of the lawless availability of strategic stockpiles and, after the reaction of the state investigating authorities, we can expect the appropriate punishment of the perpetrators and will certainly be from messages for consistent compliance with contractual obligations with the authorities of the state administration and also in economic business in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48660	Thank you. The Economic Committee? The Agriculture Committee? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48661	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary and Director, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to take a very short look at this year's report on the state and management of the stock. In 2002, the adoption of the Strategic Stocks Act was defined as stockpiles for war or the direct war dangers of major natural disasters or technical technological disasters. They cannot be used to remove market disturbances and thus differ from the market stock stocks that we have had up to that time with both of them and a lot of problems. They are made up of basic agricultural, food and non-food products necessary for life, then oil derivatives, materials and means of production necessary for such cases. The government manages the stockpiles, and the supervision is being done by the Stock Delivery Council. As stockpiles, cereals and their processing, meat and meat cans, milk and milk processing, fats, sweeteners, salt and spices, preserved vegetables, coffee, soup concentrates, whole-day dry meals, baby food, petroleum products, public health care equipment, hygiene products, etc. All 60 to 80 different types of products that can be held as strategic stocks. It is very important how such supplies are monitored because they are mostly kept in goods and less in money. So far, the practice of managing and controlling stockpiles has also produced several wheat-related affairs, and this latest one is related to the company Đakovština. The report shows that in 2008 an increase in oil derivatives, fish cans, salt, whole-day dry meals and Polish beds increased the value of strategic supplies by 45%. Since the rest of the so-called "supply" is also in stock. Marketable stocks in goods and, in the demand of earlier periods, this also has a significant impact on financial indicators. The high amount of short-term claims of more than 740 million kuna also has a significant amount of non-payment or hard-to-charge claims. For example, nearly 90 million kuna of tight interest, 1.6 million per court order and about 2.6 million kuna of suspicious and controversial claims and should probably be cleared up as well. Particular attention should be paid to the supervision of commodity stocks particularly regular but also extraordinary lists, given that warehouses often used these stocks unauthorized, and that is what happened recently. The report states that no members of the inventory committee appointed by the Director, or authorised workers of the Directorate for Stocks, have participated in all locations where the inventory list has been stored. That's how it is, for example. I've done a warehouse at 21 locations, which we don't think is right. In view of the fact that there have been irregularities in the work of the storekeeper so far, and my colleague says it is stealing, it is necessary to do ad hoc or extraordinary inventory to avoid such cases. For example. if, among other things, wheat shortages have been detected in the company Đakovština, the Prime Minister has announced that a list of supplies held by the state will be carried out, not only strategic but probably some residues which, in order to make up for the wheat to farmers who have stored their goods there. The question arises for us is why six months since the adoption of the Law on the Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, the necessary actions have not been taken to e.g. call a tender for an authorised warehouse where people could safely store their product unless they want it at that time and sell it. The question also arises if the state deprives farmers who have stored the wheat that has disappeared and assumes such a commitment to the claim from Đakovština will then produce the negative consequences and disadvantages of those who have sold the wheat and have failed to charge it in those companies. Therefore, since the Prime Minister announced that such a list of state-owned wheat would be good for the Croatian Parliament to get information about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48662	Thank you. HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear applicants report, colleagues and colleagues. This report, as well as the reports that have come to us so far, are written in the same simple way, differ only in numbers. Maybe it's also the point of being typical, the same, just to do the thing without working on the content and in the essence of the problem. And the problem of stockpiles is best talked about by these latest events in Djakovština. Although we will now discuss this report purely formally, after this terrible affair in Djakovština, which has brought many of our farmers, peasants to the beggar stick, as if nothing had happened, then we definitely missed things. The Djakovština case says that goods supplies in our country have been followed from the beginning by either affairs or they've been covered by a veil of secrets and maybe, I think, not perhaps but certainly, the time has come for change in this sector. In the first row, it may be necessary to amend and amend the strategic stocking law itself, which is full of ambiguity and uncertainty and could be said to be really outdated. In fact, we have a whole set of agricultural laws where we have defined agriculture as a strategic activity. We have market orders, market interventions through support for private storage, we have a storage law and a grain warehouse. Therefore, the question arises as to how this law stands with compliance with the acquis of the European Union. Namely, is this law as we need it when one day we enter the European Union, or what kind of European regulation is there. Next question, have these things changed since we joined NATO? My next question is whether any use of the same to remove disturbances and instability on the market is excluded from the supply system and, as set out in Article 3(2) of the Law. Or, in particular, we obviously still have in practice the market stock that has been created and existed since 1998. What kind of goods are these? Haven't we sold them to the end yet and when we're actually gonna do it? Namely, this report also lists data on the state and market stock stocks that were 3% in the stock stock structure in 2008. In the report, let me remind you, for 2007, it was 9%. There is no market stock in the 2002 Strategic Stocks Act. He also knows strategically and operational stockpiles, Article 13, which this report does not speak of anything, and the directorate draws up a review of the operational stock. It might be a good idea to get some more concrete information about that, too. In fact, market stock is only mentioned in the applicable law in transitional provisions, i.e. in Article 31(1), where it is stated: goods from commodity stocks which are no longer held by the balance sheet and goods representing the market stock until the entry into force of this law will be sold under market conditions. Furthermore, the report said that in 2008, the annual list of goods was made in 75 legal persons, warehouses of state goods. Out of the 88 locations at which the inventory was carried out, 67 locations were attended by authorised storekeepers' commissions. How shall the participation of authorised staff be determined, or by what criteria, when these authorised directors participate in the annual list? Maybe we should know how many of those warehouses we have. Number, not the territorial distribution of stock stocks because it's a state secret. This would be important because that way we can know whether the figure of 75 legal persons of the warehouses covered by the annual list of goods in 2008 is much or little. In 2007, 69 warehouse legal entities were included in the annual census. It would also be good to know by what criteria these 75 legal persons of the warehouse were selected to carry out the annual list of goods of state stock. Whether this is a free assessment of the Director of the State Department of Stocks or any annual activity plan, or perhaps it goes in some other way, for example, the reporting of suspected warehouses, the disappearance of goods or something like that. As regards the control of State supply supplies, Chapter VIII provides only the principle findings and that, in 2008 on a number of occasions, the control of State supply goods was carried out, and that the control was carried out by representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Directorate for Stocks and the State Inspectorate. How many times is that and who's got it? Only reference is made to the fact that the compliance with the contracted obligations of the user has been carried out by an auto-cistery owned directory. How many and who? In July 2008, control of the state and compliance with contract obligations of meat warehouses was carried out. No details. Chapter XII of page 11 is visible from the Report that we have a special programme to maintain a storage space for state supply accommodation. Who brings it and is it a secret? There's no special authority for that program in law. We only have the balance sheet and the annual strategic stocking program. Maybe there's a maintenance program inside the annual program. Otherwise, it would be good for the transparency of the balance sheet to be made available to the public. All we know is that the government adopted it in June 2004 on the basis of the powers laid down in Article 9 of the Law. Of course, what is not a state secret, because the basic territory is the distribution of goods stocks is a state secret and that the annual plan adopted by the Government, which is adopted in accordance with Article 10, is made available to the public by the end of the year at the same time as the procedure for the adoption of the state budget. These acts are obviously not published. Maybe there'd be a lot less secret and affairs in stockpiles if there were some things that weren't state secret transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48664	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Director of Directorate, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a report on the state of supply management for 2008 together with financial indicators of business for the same period as the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support in all its segments, primarily for the reason it is a report which in one whole and quality way shows the state, management and operation of goods stocks of the Republic of Croatia. This should also be accompanied by the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is responsible for the management of goods stocks, and the Directorate of goods stocks represented by one of the management organisations of the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship, was responsible for carrying out administrative and operational and professional operations, fully complied with the provisions of the applicable Strategic Stocks Act and the provisions of the State budget. In addition, the Directorate for Stocks acted in accordance with the strategic stock exchange that the Government of the Republic of Croatia first adopted in 2004. And finally according to the 2008 Annual Strategic Stocks Programme. I have previously cited for a purely reason why we would like to remember the time we want to believe is far behind us and will never again, in which many of the affairs of the Republic of Croatia have been associated with the business of goods supplies because of their intransparent and irresponsible relationship with the property of the Republic of Croatia. We also want to remind ourselves of the fact that it really took a lot of will, strength and knowledge that the alarming and totally unsustainable situation at the time would lead to the full order of which the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and especially the employees of the Department of Stocks who worked together for consolidation, means the situation in the stock. Unfortunately, the latest case of Đakovština, which among other things identified a lack of stored quantities of strategic goods worth around 2.8 million kuna, i.e. about 2,000 tonnes of wheat and 1000 tonnes of corn, is partly cast into the previously stated finding. However, it is important here to stress that the competent state institutions, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Directorate for Stocks and the Judicial Authority, have taken all legal actions at their disposal in accordance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia in order to establish concrete responsibilities, but also protect the interests of the state. So we think it's incorrect to mention here as a little while ago and devalue everything that's been done over the past seven, eight years on the consolidation of the stock market situation for this new case. And I think it is very important to realize that all state institutions have taken all the necessary activities at their disposal to shed light on this case. Of course, in this context we particularly welcome the efforts made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture in order to come up with an adequate solution to compensate all those farmers who have been damaged by this case. Here we are witnessing that last week the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision that will certainly make a significant contribution to our farmers and make it easier for them how difficult this situation is in this crisis time. It is precisely for the sake of this case, but also above all to avoid the alarming conditions that we had a decade ago, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club stresses the importance of strict adherence to the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act, budget regulations and budgetary users, as well as decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is important that all entities that appear in the state supply business act in a transparent and credible manner and in the spirit of a good economic operator. I think there's been a lot of talk from my predecessors, and the secretary of state talked a lot about it. So there could be a lot to talk about the role and importance of the stock. However, we from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community want to remind us and the general Croatian public of the role and importance of the goods stocks they played during the Homeland War and right after the Homeland War, so during peaceful reintegration. Overall, the report on the state and management of stock stocks as well as its financial indicators points to the continuation of the extremely responsible and high quality stock business, which is accompanied by a series of data and indicators which I will mention only some of. Therefore, the annual census was carried out with 75 legal persons and 88 locations with a negligible inventory deficit of 4600 kuna. Despite the lack of income and income of 4 million kuna in the past year, i.e. 2008 The available surplus from previous years is still at an altitude of 81 and a half million kuna. The total value of the stock is increased by around 45%, i.e. by 99 million kuna, with strategic stock stocks increased by 55%, and the market is reduced to only 3% of the total value of the stock stock, which suggests that the supply office will in future base its business exclusively on strategic stock stocks, which we believe is very good. The demand is also reduced in 2008 and as much as I have information even more significantly in 2009, but let us remember that back a few years or more specifically in late 2003 that these claims amounted to some billions and 300 million kuna. Today, it has reduced how much information I have at about 300 to 400 million kunas at the end of 2009. And at the end of 2008, they were somewhere, slightly less than 800 million kuna. Finally, it can be concluded that the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the past year, i.e. in 2008 as well as in the previous few years, have gone in the direction of normalising the state of supply management, and creating assumptions for a quality and professional work of the department of supply supply which will be fully able to react in crisis situations and to find quality solutions for their predominance. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, with the support of both the Government and the Directorate for Stocks in their future work, supports this report, and will vote in favour of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48666	Thank you. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48667	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The management of goods stocks due to their importance for the timely supply of population during emergency situations needs to be systematically controlled and we welcome this report, which gives us an overview of their situation, but also shows how they were managed. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that in addition to the efforts that have been made, situations such as Đakovština occur, when grain disappears from silos, not only those belonging to commodity stocks, but to peasants and cooperatives who have stored the grain there. It is good that the government immediately intervened and requested extraordinary storage supervision, but a bad message remains that someone dared to take what did not belong to him. In June 2004, the government adopted a balance sheet of strategic commodity stocks, with a particular type, name, quantity of goods, and basic territorial distribution, a plan, as well as deadlines for the fill of goods that make up the strategic stock necessary for people's lives. This includes oil derivatives, materials and raw materials needed for wartime production, or direct hazards, independence and unity of the Republic of Croatia or for the management of the population in the event of major natural disasters and environmental disasters and natural disasters. In particular, climate change will have a major impact on agricultural yields, and this will increase the uncertainty that these types of production are already exposed due to its sensitivity to weather conditions. On the other hand, because of the production of biofuels that are trying to reduce carbon dioxide emissions last year, the price of certain grains has increased multiple times. The result is the hunger of millions of the poorest who are left behind because of food shortages anyway. The price disturbance in the agricultural products market also affects the stability of domestic production, and therefore it is necessary to create stocks from which it will be able to intervene, in order to stabilise the domestic market. All this points to the need for good stock management. And what does this report tell us about it? It concludes that the basic characteristics of State supply operations in 2008 are to increase business revenues, and the reduction of non-financial assets revenues, the reduction of short- and long-term claims, and the reduction of supply obligations. In addition, operating expenditure has been reduced, financial assets are reduced, loans are paid and expenditure is increased for the purchase of non-financial assets. The annual list of goods of state stock was made in a total of 75 legal entities of the stock storer, and a total of 88 inventory lists and records were processed. The annual list of its own warehouses of the basic funds of the retail inventory was conducted in a total of 15 legal entities, i.e. warehouses. I will not talk about financial indicators, because they would repeat themselves, but the predecessors pointed out it in their debate. According to the stock stock structure, we see that the strategic stock is 97% while the market is 3%. In strategic stockpiles in 2008, the highest value is 13 product types that account for 93% of the total stock, while the other products are waste only 7% of the total stock. The highest value is Eurodizell, which participates with 26%, while the wheat participates with 12%, meat, fish oil, other cans with 11%, mazuut with 9, a whole day-long dry meal with 6, Eurosuper95 and 98%. On the rest of the strategic stock, the total is 7%. It should be noted that the control of State supply goods was carried out several times in 2008, and these controls did not establish any shortages. During 2008, the storage space maintenance programme for state stockpile was implemented in accordance with the resources available from State stockpiles and State budgets to cover the fixed costs of their own warehouses and their current maintenance. The total funds spent to maintain their own warehouses in 2008 amount to over 2 million, 2 and a half million kuna, and are covered by regular storage costs. On the basis of the tenders received in the public tender for the lease of the storage and business space, contracts were concluded for unused storage space at warehouses in Zabok and Škrlje. I will conclude that this report shows that business with state-owned goods supplies continues to take place in accordance with the regulations in 2008 and that increased business revenues have been reduced, and reduced revenues from the sale of non-financial assets. The claims have also been reduced both in the short and long term, and the supply obligations have been reduced. In addition, reduced operating expenditure, expenditure on financial assets and loans, with an increase in the cost of obtaining non-financial assets. Therefore, this report will be supported by all these mentioned clubs of the Croatian Peasants' Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48668	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48669	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I want to believe that it is not wrong that the Government sent a report on the state of the 2008 state to the Parliament in October 2009, because I know that those reports end somewhere by April. So then for six months that report was in the government, probably to cut by about 80%. Because what's in front of us today is only 20% of the reports the principal's office is sending to the government. And I have to admit that the government has made a good effort to leave out any information from the report that could serve to discuss the situation in the commodity reserves, and that is why a lot of my predecessors in their discussions mentioned "Djakovština" as an example of the problem of being available to the stock reserves, although I think that is the least of the problems, because there were only 2,000 tons of state wheat there, and all those who struggled with the question of where the wheat is, were never taken anywhere, not by the bootleggers, nor by the ships, nor by the living, these 5kg sparrows who usually reside around the silos where the state supplies are kept, nor by these 120 kg rats who usually dig trenches under those silos. That wheat was ground and ground all last year and sold as bread, cloudy, pastry. That's more or less everyone who wanted to know. So, no sparrows, no rats, no paws, but the grain was grinded and sold. What concerns me is the 740 million short-term claims, 55 million long-term claims and the information that is not available this time, and has always been written off as many claims in 2008? And since the annual level of written-off claims, the last thing I remember was more than 100 million kuna in one calendar year, perhaps the Secretary of State will find out because the report really doesn't have it. Now, how is it possible that such claims are large and why have the write-offs of claims been greater than 100 million kunas each year when this information was given in the Assembly? Because the stock reserves are required of certain Croatian companies are not of 100 thousand, 200 thousand, 300 thousand, but these claims start from even smaller, and let's say that if I'm not mistaken, the maximum amount of the claim is 23 million 724 thousand kuna from one single company, until we started in 2000 to 2002, and that's the famous "class" from Nova Gradiška. There are also claims from 1995, 1997, 1996, 1999, amounting to 4 million, 9 million. This time I won't say that "Tuti fruti" is the biggest debtors, but let's say there's one firm that didn't pay 8 million 300, and it's called "Europalent." They're terribly talented when the state manages to remain in debt over 8 million kunas and have a good name, "Europalent". Perhaps a message to our managers that the second time and such titles choose when they deal with the state. So, I don't accept, I can't understand that the department of the stock reserve still has to run the payment attempts from 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, whatever you want. It's like the stock reserve was self-serving for some. They drove the goods, never paid. Those who had political sponsors were not touched to avoid becoming the local community a social problem. No matter how many payment guarantees you have or the bankruptcy is in the process, it takes 10 years, or it's liquidation, so it's interesting that some of these companies are repeated year after year and there's no charge for debt and bankruptcy. One of those same, with debts greater than 10 million. I hope I don't reveal the state's secret by reading the names of these companies and the amount of debts when they came into existence. And I think it was supposed to be an integral part of the report because I don't see why the Government kept a list of debtors from the Croatian Parliament? A list of the companies that stole the stock. Probably the principalships at the time were in the best interest and selling goods out of their stock, but it turned out to be thieves who do not want to pay their dues. These are, in the list there are very famous companies, companies, agricultural cooperatives, but also very exotic names of companies from Zagreb. I'm happy that the "Tuti fruti" isn't on the debt list, probably ended up in bankruptcy. Second, everyone mentioned that the government had first brought the balance since 2004, the stock exchange. So what? And I argue that this balance is the beginning of the problem of management of the goods reserves in Croatia because it is outdated by the content of goods that should be kept in nature, money, locations and with the promised money from the state budget. I must remind you that the state of supply depends on how much less they will achieve their own income, and most of all, which will be approved from the budget. The state of supply at the moment is at the level of one-third of the balanced needs. One-third. Mrs. Kosor promised the peasants she'd return the grain, and no one told them that the grain balance would take 50,000 tons, but that it would never exceed 30 to 33 thousand tons. Well, if all 26 thousand tons were returned, there'd be only five, six, seven thousand tons left in the stock reserves, which is inadmissible. But I can't understand how to say oil derivatives the filling range is from 21% in gasoline to 50% diesels all, after we've passed through our neighborhood great examples when it's really necessary or absurd to say special vehicles and vessels have none, that the housing containers don't have any, car trailers have nothing, tents of quarters, bags of dead people at all, sleeping bags of 38 thousand, 4 thousand, Polish beds of only 10 thousand pieces, only half, water tanks of zero, tanker zeroes, moving kitchens no, gas lamps, but there's no means to disinfecte water, deratization and disinsect space in the elemental disasters and situation of the most needed means. And then it could happen that our media reports due to Đakovština from Đakovje say the stock reserves are intended primarily for state intervention on the market if there are disturbances or price discrepancies so that there are reserves that the state intervenes. We need to hear everyone who serves in which cases the state may activate the stock reserves and must not activate them to affect prices and supply and demand. So the state of the stock reserves by value content, especially the necessary equipment from the balance sheet does not correspond to the minimum needs and balance sheet Mr. Secretary of State try to explain it to your minister at least. From 2004, it is necessary to restore, redefine. It's 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48670	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the first question I have to ask in this report why this report means that we're only discussing it now in February 2010. And I was expecting an answer from Mr. Secretary of State, but in the opening statement, I didn't get it. And due to such access to this extremely important topic, it is concluded that the Government does not seem to be interested in the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the supply, and should certainly be interested in it because, through the supply supply, the Government should guarantee market stability to Croatian citizens in cases of economic disturbances, i.e. in the event of exceptional weather accidents or war. As we discuss this issue, we should return to the past and remind ourselves that there has been serious crime in this area, which proves that over the past period, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia has been damaged by around 400 million kuna. I remind you, it's about cases where companies did business with the State Department of Stocks in a way that they bought all kinds of goods but never paid for it. In most cases, it means companies that went bankrupt. And the state has never charged that claim, or the principalship. This year, we often have an example of how this was managed by the stockpiles of Đakovština, where two thousand tons of corn worth 2.5 million kunas that were stored as state stocks were also lost with rural wheat worth 14.5 million kuna. And this example shows how the state manages strategic stockpiles, and instead of the state making a living in stockpiles, it is precisely because of certain criminal actions that apparently happen with these supplies, which confirms this case of Đakovština that it is constantly losing. And it's certainly an alarm alarm that due to suspicion of criminal stockpiles, action is carried out and stockpiles are well combed. I'd like to say something about the law. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The Strategic Stocks Act stipulates that in the event of a lack of storage space in certain cases, the State may also store in warehouses of legal natural persons, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides by regulations which are persons. The question arises on what criteria does the Government choose private warehouses, who controls the state of the goods, and how does it seem? The Đakovština case shows that apparently state stock has become said Lesar self-services from which state goods are taken when certain companies need it again at the expense of the state and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that by law no one is responding. In view of the financial results of the operations referred to in this 2008 report, it is apparent that the operating revenues amounted to around 107 million and 200 thousand kuna, and expenditures of around 111 million kuna, and the financial result of the business was about 3 million and 700 thousand kuna, they were unsettled by the profit that was previous years, meaning they were solidised but the fact that in 2008 the difference between income and expenditure was negative means that there was a deficit, i.e. loss. The value of the supply of strategic and marketable goods at the end of 2008 was around 441 million kuna, the largest part of which of the waste on the strategic stockpiles of around 308 million kuna. However, it is interesting to see claims at the end of 2008 amounting to nearly 800 million kuna. Looking at the structure of these claims, we see the highest value of short-term claims of around 740 million kuna, of which on claims from customers, the waste amounting to 167 million kuna, and over 300 million kuna in shares, shares in the principal. ... finally on the publication of a list of those companies that owe to the state for the goods they bought from the state supplies they owed for the goods, because experience has shown that a large number of companies buy goods, go into bankruptcy and the state remains without those funds, billions of kunas go into the wind and no one bears responsibility. The state resinuates the goods, and that's how it goes on forever. We also see from the report on page 3, that the annual list of state stocks was carried out by 75 legal persons, and 88 inventory lists and the minutes on the implementation of the annual census were processed in a total of 75 legal entities. At 21 locations, the list was made by the warehouses themselves. Is it not among those warehouses that have made their own annual lists, perhaps even the Đakovština warehouses and how many other such warehouses write wheat at the end of 2008 and which may not be at all, because the state assured the villagers last year that the Đakovština silos are safe to store their goods, but the goods are no longer even left behind for sparrows, and that regular monitoring has been carried out during the year, which is probably not the legal obligation to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48672	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48673	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, the Director of Stocks. Well, I have to start by saying right away that this report when there was a speech on the Committee on Agriculture that I was restrained about this report because I think it's at least what I did after reading this report and the comparatives with the previous report from 2007 could have been because in this particular report, if we look at it a little bit more, we see that there is one matrix that is being copied, it's only going to change the numbers, but it remains what is present and what has already been said in some discussions, and one in fact, it seems to me whether it's sloppy or some censorship that we're eventually getting a part of it because now I've heard, I didn't even know that the stockpiles to the government are going with a bigger report, but still, when we look at this whole thing, it's going to be primarily and this segment of warehouse control. Exactly the question of licensing these warehouses, which are warehouses and whether they are safe enough suggests that this is not done in one quality way, even what I did last year when I compared 69 warehouses from 82 locations reviewed or now that from 88 is 75 viewed at 67 locations and then and now 74% of them are controlled. However, there has already been a lot of mention of these 21 places where a stand-alone list is being held. That was last year 2007, that was the same in 2008, whether it was in 2009, whether it was mine, from my Đakov Đakovština, were those who were in those 21st and believed and I think it was really one of the quality of the silo and one of the companies that had their reputation and had the quality of the work. But here's what happens to such affairs devalue then and work, and all the work and this kind of control that the stockpiles were doing precisely because the question of when this Parliament and this Parliament are going to be presented is how many of these real reserves are stored. When we know that, I'm especially talking about agriculture because these 12% of the total value of wheat in total strategic reserves 12% is the value of wheat surely deserves one greater and more attention and control. Especially what this case is now, but also those who have been going on in the near past who have already been here talking about and all these disappearances of these grains, about cases that these stock supplies and reserves and sold these goods to businesses and never paid for. Besides, these short-term claims and long-term claims certainly show that. We also see that the question of these credit obligations is over 200 million more. Thus, one with another maltene is again the 1 billion questionable one that is spinning. Whether it should be paid or brought or charged. When we read that report like this and why I can't accept it as such, I'm restrained in all of it. Simply when it's emphasized that 9.97% is reduced I don't know the claims, what are the claims, how and in what way, are those claims from customers as they were charged and where these money ended up and where they end up. It's all, in a way, very much like this, represented here, and that's why it personally brings me a dilemma about how much this report is and how true and how true it is. The other thing that I was saying last year when it came to the import and export of wheat when stocks of very cheap exported wheat and the state, after expensive money, imported that wheat, I think that this lack of a thought-out stocking policy or a stocking policy should nevertheless be ensured in the sense that they do not have any losses in those goods. In particular, I believe that the need to use these stocks in disposition because these are goods of some that normally will not stand wheat for ten years one and the same, to be on the disposition of the state always at the moment when it is most needed. But it's also in function, so it can be used by economic operators. However, cheap sales, expensive imports, one with the other does not go and normally the state as such eventually goes worse. Besides, the worse it goes, it's also shown in this Đakovština where the only stock is now missing and not to tell our peasants who either believed too much or were least directed to it. At the same time, some large warehouses that had large companies in time were like exporting those goods, and now they're returning it, processing it, as saviors come and it turns out that the state and our peasants have been through the worst in the whole of this action. That's why I think that this issue of the Storage Act that we finished half a year ago if it hadn't come to life this way and it probably came to life then, at least here these peasants would have some firmer support that these warehouses are safe. And I say, licensing silos according to European criteria is one of the important issues and I think that in that part of the same stock they have to do their jobs and create to know if we've already put that stuff in silos and if someone's keeping us safe and that this country is certain that these goods will and will be and that in no case will God be available, that they can be used as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48674	Thank you. And Madam Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48675	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will begin my debate as well as my predecessors, expressing dissatisfaction with the fact that this information is being discussed so late for 2008 only now. In fact, the recent developments in the goods supply sector make this information completely inaccurate, although it is certain that the "Djakovština" affair has something to do with this information, so as of 2008, it is also due to the same mode of operation in the supply system over a longer period of time. So this affair also confirms that this system is run badly, that the system has a lot of holes, so to speak, in a picturesque way, through which the grain leaks. I'll try to explain it. The Annual List of Stock Stocks for 2008 was made by 75 legal persons warehouses of state stock reserves, with the inventory being made at 88 locations. At 67 locations, therefore, about 74% of the total number in the inventory, along with members of the list committees formed by the warehousers themselves, participated and authorised employees of the Department of Stocks. Thus, at 21 locations, the inventory was carried out by the state stockpiles themselves, and certain issues are raised in this regard. For example, why the inventory is not made in all warehouses of state stock stores and all locations, because only this would provide comprehensive data and accurate insight into the state of supply. Further questions are raised as to what was the criterion for selecting warehouses where the inventory will be done, or where this will not be done. Why did the inventory be done by the warehouses themselves? Why weren't all the commissions involved in the department's authorised staff? If each fourth inventory is out of the total number of those that have been done because I remind you, one number has actually not been worked at all, so it was done without the presence of authorised management employees, how accurate the data is actually obtained by the inventory and how trusted they can be. What opens the room to express doubts? Well, I'm already data on the established inventory deficit. Namely, at all 88 locations at 75 warehouses of state stockpiles, there was a deficit of 4000 636 kuna and 52 June. I have to say that in my working life I have done a lot of inventory in a state institution, so in a small, relatively small system and my experience tells me that in a large and dispersed economic system such as the inventory deficit in such a symbolic amount can neither be realistic nor accurate but it is set. It would be really wonderful if the identified deficit were real and true because it would be a confirmation that the system is highly decorated, that it has very effective internal controls. However, the very affairs to which we bear witness every little deny every thought that it is an orderly system. Because how is it possible for tens of thousands of grains to disappear in one orderly system? What kind of birds, here, are mentioned by fellow Lesar, can pick up such a huge amount of grain, unless it is about well - informed birds who know perfectly that they can steal and that nothing will happen to them, or that the state will return it all or better say that the people will gold it all. Inventory or an annual list of assets is one very serious job and I'm sure that the list of supplies is not done as it is done, legally. If, in a large number of cases, it was not even on site, but data were taken from the accounting records, it was not safe to measure, scale, count. And if it did come to the inventory warehouse, it was done in a folk way by an ominous method. The consequence of such work is that the bookkeeping state of the stock is not at all consistent with the actual situation on the ground. In fact, the state has no idea what it has to do with the state supply, and it is fortunate, in fact, that there have not been any major natural or ecological disasters, disasters in which the state would have to intervene to the goods necessary for survival in such situations, therefore goods that mean the life or death of a large number of citizens in those moments. To conclude, the inventory must cover all the places of the stock reserves, so all where they are kept, all lists must be actively involved and authorised employees of the Stock and Inventory Directorate must be handled in a legally prescribed manner, so that the most accurate situation can be determined by the implementation of extraordinary unannounced lists, i.e. inventory. Only in this way can one true insight into the state of supply be provided, and only in this way can stealing and other types of abuse be effectively prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48676	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with discussion of the half-yearly report of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2009 and thereafter the 2009 report on the work of the State Audit Office, the report on audits carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2010-02-23-0.u48677	We are moving to the 2008 report on the state and management of stock stocks with financial indicators, the applicant of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Parliamentary Working Authorities, I am voting the conclusion which reads: "A report on the state and management of the stock for 2008 with financial indicators is accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This report was accepted by a majority of 76 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 34 against. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're moving on with the session. It is time for the agenda as announced. - Half-year report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2009, Proposer: Croatian National Bank The Croatian National Bank submitted this report on the basis of Article 62. The law on the Croatian National Bank. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Relja Martic Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank. Here you go.
