ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 5 May 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 813/21-4-2016 by MP B' Athens, Nea Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the "interviewed intervention of the Ministry in the selection of a hundred doctors and four hundred nurses". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the creation of community centres in all the municipalities of the country. 3. The Question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthakis to the Ministers for Rural Development and the Environment and Energy on the problem of water shortages in Chania. 4. The Question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance about the "loss of the hundred-dollar adjustment due to the failure to inform the debtors of the new amount of the instalment after the increase in interest rate and the unilateral reduction of the amount of the instalment paid by the debtors in the adjustment bank account". 5. The Question No 812/19-4-2016 by Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the risk of the non-profit-making organisation "The Smile of the Child". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 814/21-4-2016 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the planning of the Ministry for the management and adequacy of water resources in the islands of the Aegean Sea and the Cyclades. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Evia) Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on redundancies in the Greek Defence Systems (ESA). 3. The timely question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning "subjudgment and provocacy at peaceful political events and demonstrations by Greek citizens". 4. The question raised by Mr Christos Katsotis with the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the safeguarding of all workers' working and insurance rights at the "ELECTRONIC ATHENS". 5. The question by No 789/18-4-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Greek Independents Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy regarding the illegal chartering of vessels. 6. The current question by MP Evia of New Democracy, Simos Kedicoglou, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, concerning the draft law promoted by the Ministry for the Establishment of a Public Authority for Ports of Piraeus (IAS). 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the arrhythmias in the functioning of the ETUC and the deterioration of the working conditions of its employees. 8. The timely question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Constantine Steerios to the Minister of Health about the need to prevent, treat and support the Volos cancer patients. 9. The question asked by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the 'uncontrolled action of the solidaritys'. 10. The question asked by MP Carditsa, New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Tsiras, Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, about the establishment of an immigration hosting centre at the Carditsa Police School. 11. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 54/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Eleni Zaroulia, Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EAW. 12. The current question of the Greek Parliamentary I of Thessaloniki Mr Stavros Kalafatis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the Organization of Ports of Thessaloniki (OLTH). REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion. I would also like to inform you that in today's newsletter none of the topical questions are being discussed. In particular: The fifth under number 803/19-4-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the deposit of bills and receipts from the Lagard List and National Broadcasting Council (ESP), is not discussed by the Minister responsible with the MP. I am also going to read the timely questions which are not being discussed because of the impediment of the competent ministers and will be redefined for discussion. The first under number 800/19-4-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning complaints about the use of the services of the Municipality of Saronicos, on the election needs of a candidate president of the local organisation of New Democracy, is not discussed due to an impediment and due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister. The second question under number 810/19-4-2016, first cycle of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the provisions of the draft law on the recruitment of assistant teachers, is not discussed due to an impediment and due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister. The third, with number 791/18-4-2016, is a top-stage question by the MP Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the excessive deficits of the banks, which the Treasury'tolerates', is not discussed due to an impediment and a workload of the Minister. The fourth under number 806/19-4-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Sakis Vardalis, on the Greek Vehicle Industry (‘ELVO ABE’), is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first one under number 811/19-4-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the financing of the 2007-2013 ESRB projects that are at risk, is not discussed due to an impediment and his participation in the Governing Council of Economic Policy (CYPK) of the Minister. Also, the second question under number 798/18-4-2016 of the second Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning non-performing loans is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u3	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u4	Let me finish. The first question with number 2380/15-1-2016 question of the petitions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the "restoration of the injustice of the last law on the single wage for officials of the regions", is not discussed due to an impediment by the Member. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u5	Okay, will we not feel our presence here unnecessary on postponements, but is it Parliament's view on parliamentary control that no timely questions are answered? What does the programme of parliamentary control say today? Zero. Are we addressing empty chairs? Are these the ministers? The empty chairs? The Minister I am addressing for the fourth time is politically unconscious. It does not inform, do not do, and I have been addressing the Bureau - in addition to what you have done, I acknowledge, to the Government - that the Minister with three State Secretarys cannot give an answer. There are three Undersecretaries, Mr. Stathakis. He doesn't trust anyone? And I have said that the Bureau should put this proposal to the government in all the others it does - and it is right to do so too. At the Minister's meeting with Undersecretaries, it must be very serious the problems that trouble everyone and nobody comes. There is nothing else I can do, Madam President, to ask for the floor, to repeat my intention, but as far as Mr Stathakis is concerned, I say it a second time and I stress it: he is a politically unconscious Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Loverdo, please get that expression back,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u7	No way!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u8	... because at least this question is on April 18th. So it's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u9	No, Madam President, I have been here four times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u10	That's the date she's being treated for conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u11	But four times I've come, I tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u12	There is no way you have come four times since 18 April.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u13	No, but every time it doesn't come back and I redeem it. It's her last statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u14	No, it's reassigned from the Secretariat directly. In any case, I think it is understandable. The Minister has a government council. He didn't say he couldn't or was somewhere else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u15	He has three Undersecretaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u16	Hey, what do we do? He wants to handle it himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u17	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u18	What do you want, Mr. Amyras? Now are we going to talk about this? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u19	We will discuss the fact that by reading the absentee reports, half the ministers invoke a workload and the other half miserable obligations. And I ask: is there a stronger obligation on a minister to come to parliamentary control to give the appropriate answers? I don't understand what the misdemeanors are. In my case the same questions have been put back and again and there is no communication from the government. No Minister comes to tell us when he will respond to key issues that we raise. Moreover, with the exception of Mr Tsakalotos, who is currently trying to build the fourth memorandum and bring it to us and serves us here - perhaps the fifth -,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u20	The 20th! Take it and enjoy it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u21	...the workload of the rest of the Ministers I can't recognize.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u22	The 20th Memorandum!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u23	You have two memos already and you thank them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u24	No, I'm saying it so you don't fight about the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u25	How many memos will you feel saturation and stop bringing us memos? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u26	I think it is very trivial to open up a opposition procedure for this. It's a big Monday, and everyone has reasons to be absent. We have discussed this at the Conference of Presidents. There is also a sanction without amendments, and I hope you will welcome that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u27	First time! But there are no ministers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u28	And look at them and not just the negative ones. On this occasion, I would also like to refer to an absence permit. "Please keep in mind my request for a absence from the United States of America from 25-4-2016 to 8-5-2016. Evangelos Venizelos". Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u29	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the establishment and operation of a Joint Contact Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation". As you know, the bill was voted by a majority vote in the Standing Committee. In particular, SYRIZA was voted in favour of the New Democracy, the Hellenic Republic, the Association of Centres for Reconstruction and Development. The bill is introduced to the House in accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, only those who object to the ratification of this agreement can take the floor. Does a colleague then want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u31	Madam President, I can have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Carachosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u33	This draft law concerns one of the most common sanctions for the memoranda of understanding, cooperation and so on, which come to Parliament on account of the fact that it is foreseen in constitutional terms, and in fact it has already been signed and, rather, in practice. In this case, this is an agreement, signed on 25 May 2015, which concerns the establishment of a Joint Contact Centre with Bulgaria and Turkey with a view to police and customs cooperation. The Agreement provides for the establishment in Capitan Andreev, Bulgaria, of a Joint Contact Centre, in the standards of the relevant European Practices and in accordance with the national laws of the Contracting States. The main responsibility of the Contact Centre will be to exchange information on illegal immigration, drug trafficking and arms, traffic offences, terrorism, organised crime and so on. In addition, through the Centre, the three countries undertake to exchange information in cases of disruption of traffic or other problems on national road or rail networks and to cooperate in cases of emergency or other matters which may have a cross-border impact. The Centre's powers are also the control of passports, visas and travel documents in general and related offences. Police and customs officials in the three countries will work under a common roof, however in separate areas, while each side will act in accordance with its national legislation and have access only to its own national databases. Our view of such agreements is well known. We believe that they are clearly hypocritical, that they are typical and that they are subject to specific practices. This centre is supposed to be coordinated to combat various crimes, such as illicit drug trafficking, arms, terrorism and illegal immigration. However, daily Turkish challenges in the Aegean Sea, the constant and uninterrupted flow of illegal immigrants from the coasts of Asia Minor to the Aegean islands, Turkish threats to our country and to the European Union leave no room for questioning the alleged benefit that may exist for Greece from this agreement. Furthermore, Article 12 itself provides that the Contracting Parties, in the event that the provision of data may constitute a threat to their national security or public policy or internal law, may not provide any information at all in relation to the treatment of the crimes provided for in this Agreement. We must also point out the time when ratification of the agreement comes to the Greek Parliament, with our homeland and people facing the burden of sound financial bleeding and the dramatic consequences of illegal immigration. In particular, as far as the issue of illegal immigration is concerned, it is clear that the law-making state is satisfied with the consent of both the Government and the other parties of the anti-constitutional arch. The general question and the concern that needs to be raised is how our country will effectively shield its borders and how the invasion of thousands of illegal immigrants will end. The Golden Dawn, with a completely different view of how our borders should be protected and how criminal data and action should be prevented from entering our country, assuming that these issues are not dealt with by establishing any police and customs cooperation centres, especially with clearly hostile countries, is contrary to this ratification and, of course, it is voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Karakosta. Before giving the floor to Mr Synergyakis, I would like to make a few announcements to the House. The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs and Management Reconstruction, Economy, Development and Tourism, National Defence, Education, Research and Religion, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Culture and Sport, Economics, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Shipping and Human Rights, Rural Development and Food, Statement, Deputy Ministers of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Development and Tourism, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Economic and Energy, and the State Secretarys of Economy, Development and Tourism, Education, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Public Health, Environment and Energy, as well as the Ministers of Economic, Development and Tourism, Research and Religious Affairs, Research and Religion, Research and Religious Affairs, Research and Religious Affairs, have today been founded in the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Africa and Reform of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union. The Ministers of Culture and Sport, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Finance, Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Foreign Affairs, tabled today, 25 April 2016, a draft law: "Move the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Mutual Establishment of Cultural Centres". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Tenical Responsibility of Ministers", as is the case, on April 22, 2016, a criminal case against Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Ioannis Muzala. The Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic, National Defence, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Rural Development and Food, the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, as well as the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, tabled a draft law on 22 April 2016: "The Single System of Social Security - Reformation of Insurance - Pensions - Reform of income tax arrangements and gambling". It was referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. For the Communist Party of Greece, this agreement is part of the construction of the well-known European Union's reactionary'security, freedom and justice', which, on the pretext of combating organised crime and combating terrorism, serves the strategy of the Euro-Union capital and its further development, also a reactionary Schengen Treaty. It also refers to the explanatory statement that this agreement is coming to shape the territory and the conditions for Bulgaria's full integration into the so-called Schengen acquis, with which, of course, we disagree and have repeatedly expressed our objections. The Schengen Treaty, ladies and gentlemen - we have expressed too many times - is a mechanism for the repression of the European Union and I think that the experience so far has shown. It turns out that they reap the circuits of traffickers and migrants as well as various nationalist, fascist groups, who, on the pretext of the so-called illegal entry of refugees and migrants into the Schengen countries, do not miss the opportunity to spill their poison, to express their fascist and racist vigour, often by arresting, pre-fascising refugees, as has been done - experience has shown - Nazi criminal Gold Dawn. In essence, the right and constitutional obligation of a country to provide asylum for citizens of third countries are abolished and this is because it is predicted that, if no asylum was granted to a country of the Schengen system, it cannot ask another country where the agreement is implemented. The establishment of the Joint Contact Centre of Greece - Bulgaria - Turkey, on the basis of the agreement under discussion, aims, as stated in the text of the Agreement and the explanatory statement, to exchange information and coordinate cooperation between police, border and customs authorities of the Contracting States in dealing with forms of cross-border crime, as required by Schengen and all similar Euro-Union mechanisms. The Communist Party of Greece, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, does not underestimate the need for cooperation between countries to tackle organised crime. However, we consider that especially in the current circumstances and in the context of the European Union, cooperation is objectively subordinate to what we call the anti-terrorism, anti-immigration doctrines of the United States, the European Union, which, in the past, have, of course, been exploited for preventive wars, to strike popular movements. After all, it is no coincidence that, immediately after the Maastricht Treaty and Amsterdam, this so-called 'country of freedom, security and justice' of the European Union was created, with the result that a network of such Euro-Union and national mechanisms of repression, authoritarianism, monitoring and persecution of workers were made, taking tough measures against refugees and immigrants, intensifying the exploitation of the working class and other people's classes, targeting the class, working people's movement and violating democratic popular freedoms. Article 5 of the Agreement states that the authorities of the Contracting States and through the Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation under which they cooperate, shall include, inter alia, cases of threats to public policy or security, emergencies and serious incidents, to which one clearly concludes that one is, on the basis of the examples mentioned, social protests, mobilisations and political activities. Why do we say that? Minister, last week in the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, you referred to in Article 5 of this Convention, concerning the tasks of this Joint Centre, told us that differentiation in the different categories of information is clear and that not all of these categories are confused with each other. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in a moment, Madam President. Show some tolerance. At the same meeting of the committee you brought as an example the recent movements of farmers to Promahona, which, as you said, could be the subject of the Joint Centre between Greece and Bulgaria. In fact, what category are popular mobilizations classified, to see how clear this classification of information you invoked? And, to be clearer, you confess, Minister, that the closed roads to Promahona, with the recent agricultural mobilisations, constitute a crime and could be the subject of the Joint Contact Centre. So here's what the objective of such agreements is. You agree unanimously or inadvertently on this point, namely to co-operate with the suppression of popular mobilisations, which you described as a crime. Everything is seen as a crime, from refugee and immigration to popular mobilisations. That's the reality. I would refer you to the Minutes themselves. At the same time, in Article 5, it refers as the first of the main issues of information exchange, illegal immigration. It considers that, as a major and serious cross-border crime, which needs to be tackled first, the desperate attempt of refugees and immigrants to escape from hell of wars or the impoverishment conditions that the imperialists have brought them through with their interventions, seeking out into other countries, which also treats them in a way that is not really serious crimes, such as drug trafficking and others. The spokesman of the New Democracy at the same meeting tried to give lessons of interpretation and wording as to what anyone means by the term 'illegal immigrant' or 'unreasonable immigrant' or 'irregular immigrant', thus justifying the consent of his party to this agreement, as have the consent of the other parties. The President referred to earlier. Even SYRIZA MPs, who have declared themselves unacceptable and are aggressively defining the term 'illegal immigrant', will vote? What are they gonna do? But what is illegal? Who's illegal? Who are they criminalizing and who aren't? illegality, crime is the will of a refugee or immigrant to be saved from certain slaughter, poverty and hunger, seeking better luck, or the imperialists and imperialist wars launched by the European Union, NATO, the United States of America, Russia, competition between them and the destruction of the wealth of countries from which refugees and immigrants come, the violation of the Geneva Convention on Asylum, Schengen, the Dublin Agreements, the capture of thousands of people in our country? Refugee and immigration for the JRC are the two sides of the same currency, capitalism and the maximum profit for capital, which does not recognise victims, does not regret human souls, does not account for human dignity. So they have every right to fight for their survival and existence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u36	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u37	In these words, I conclude by saying that Article 7 allows for access by the authorities of the Contracting States to national databases, and Article 10 provides for exchange of personal data, including their provision to third countries. Any such typical guarantees and restrictions for their exchange actually gold the pill and are being used for the eyes of the world. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that this agreement also involves Turkey, a state that trespasses democratic human rights, leading too many democratic fighters, communists, either in prison or in court. Turkey's bourgeoisie does not actually recognise either a border and, together with NATO, challenge the country's sovereign rights. For all these reasons, the JRC is voting against this agreement. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Minister, would you like to say something? You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u39	I'm gonna need less time. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is understandable that this agreement serves to control cross-border crime. And we all know the problems that exist and how easily and at what speed cross-border crime is moving, which is greater than the speed of persecuting crime. We know the problems with drug trafficking. Even in the sensitive geographical area we know that from the difficult passages - either sea or land - drug trafficking and trafficking are taking place. The Contact Centre, which was set up, aims precisely at better addressing these issues. It is not panacea, it is not the tool that will solve all the problems and from its establishment there will be no crime in our region. However, as I said, it is a tool and as a tool, Mr Synthyakis, you know that it can be used on the one hand and on the other. But we have set such conditions to use this tool in the right direction. It is not directed towards dealing with popular mobilisation. In my example in committee - and I would ask that all my thinking and all my phrases be used - I said that there have been problems in this case. I mean traffic problems and not problems associated with the suppression of popular mobilisation. Besides, you know that this centre does not even have the ability to deal with popular mobilisations and of course no one wants this centre to be used for this purpose. This centre, therefore, is mainly about dealing with drug trafficking, dealing with trafficking and dealing with trafficking in human beings. And as we deal with it. It also contributes to better relations between neighbouring states, regardless of what the internal situation is in each country, regardless of whether we agree with the internal functioning of neighbouring states. There must be good relationships. Last week at the Joint Quartet of Foreign and Interior Ministers in Thessaloniki between Greece, Albania, Skopje and Bulgaria, the issues of such cooperation were discussed. It is good to have a common response to the common crime. From there on, it makes sense to have suspicion in everything new that is born, but let us not go to aspects that are not in a mood nor the specifications to expand functions of this centre. We therefore believe that this centre will contribute precisely to dealing with crime. There is neither in our minds nor in the preconditions of this centre, its function or towards the treatment of popular mobilisations or other functions that some might be afraid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u40	The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction is hereby concluded: ‘Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the establishment and operation of a Joint Contact Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u41	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u42	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u43	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the establishment and operation of a Joint Contact Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation’ was accepted by a majority, in principle, in the form of an article and a total of:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u45	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-25-S1-commons.u46	With the consent of the House, 18.40 minutes will be closed. I wish you good Easter, good holidays to you and your families and good return.
