ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 25-11-2016, the minutes of its PR meetings, Friday 25 November 2016, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘The Single System of Mobility in Public Administration and Local Government, the obligations of the persons appointed in the positions of Articles 6 and 8 of Law No.4369/2016, incompatibility and prevention of conflicts of interest and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament Mr Georgios Psychogios, MP Mr Korinthias:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[Let the page in. 2a]] [[B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS’ REQUIREMENTS]] [[Let the page in. 2b]] Change Page
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Three will be discussed and not debated enough. They will not be discussed because of lack of competence. It will not be debated because of lack of competence the third under number 243/22-11-2016 topical question of the first cycle of MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on measures to complete the restoration work of the Captain's School in Heraklion Crete. The Ministry of Finance is responsible. Also, in consultation with the questionable Member, the fourth question under number 225/18-11-2016 will not be discussed in consultation with the competent Minister under number 225/18-11-2016. Also, the thirteenth question, number 213/15-11-2016, will not be discussed in the nineteenth question, on the completion of the work of Marina Meslokologi, for the second time. The question will not be discussed by the questioner, the first with number 32/3-10-2016 question of the petitions and questions raised by the Independent MEP II, Mr Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the steps to establish the Single Social Security Agency. I'll go on with the rest. A similar document has been sent by the General Secretariat of the Government for questions which will not be discussed. We begin with the second with number 236/21-11-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the increase in the amount of the associated aid per acreage for oranges to be poured out. The Secretary of State for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Vassilis Kokalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I come back after my previous topical question, No 926/30-05-2016, that is, just last May, when it comes to recalculating and speeding up payment to the beneficiaries of the coupled orange payment for juiced oranges. You know that my prefecture is a prefecture where citrus fruits are a basic pillar of production, as is Argolida, as is Laconia. According to your previous reply, under the European Regulation, beneficiaries of the related aid are farmers who deliver for juices per year at least seven tonnes of oranges per hectare. This proportion is calculated on the basis of the total deliveries and total areas of orange trees, which in turn are derived from the declarations of a single aid application submitted by producers to the OPECE. The amount of the associated aid, on the basis of the European Regulation and the Ministerial Decisions, is determined as being EUR 316 per hectare, approximately EUR 31 per acre. This amount should have been collected by the beneficiary growers in June. Minister, European Regulation 639/2014, in particular Article 53(2), expressly states - and I repeat it to listen to it and listen to it by the interested parties - that the related aid results from the ratio of the annual amount available for this aid or the reference acres - an indicative price, therefore, as the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food has decided - or the eligible crops of the year in question - a real price. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Madam President. According to the CRL, the total annual budget for linked orange aid for 2015 amounts to EUR 9 million. However, while the activated acres are only a hundred and ten thousand, the reference acres are two hundred and eighty-five thousand acres, your ministry chooses to pay this aid on the basis of the indicative price. As a result of this decision, your ministerial decision, almost two thirds of the total annual budget will remain indisposed. In fact, since these resources cannot be used for other purposes, they are returned to the European Union and do not live in Greece. So, Mr Minister, do you intend to apply the possibility of calculating the associated aid granted by the European Union on the basis of the budgetary ratio to the eligible hectares? What will be the associated aid per acre for oranges to be juiced for 2015? Has it been paid to the beneficiaries and to what amount?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u4	Here you go, Mr. Red, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Papoutsis, the interest in your law is indeed irreversible - and you are doing well - but we must say some things, which are provided for by treaties and laws. In the absence of any comments on the compatibility of the measures with the internal market, the Commission concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. What's he saying? ‘Member States may grant coupled support to farmers under the conditions set out in this Regulation. The associated support may only be granted in those sectors where specific types of agricultural activity or specific agricultural sectors face certain difficulties.’ Subsequently, the 2014 Regulation you invoke clearly specifys the ways. ‘Member States’, in Article 53, ‘specify the eligibility criteria for the coupled support measures. Areas and yields shall be determined by the maximum yield on the cultivated area.’ Subsequently, the following articles state the penalties in case each Member State exceeds this associated support. In passing, the words 'associated support' do not mean restoration of income, but it is a support, it says the word itself. In fact, the phenomenon in the Arta prefecture has emerged in recent years for the delivery of citrus fruits to be poured down. The Greek Government has indeed authorized, pursuant to this European Regulation, the indicative price. Of the two hundred and eighty thousand hectares of oranges it proved that the ones who declared juice were a hundred ten. What did the government say? That for those who want to deliver oranges for juicement, there must be certain conditions, such as invoices, to deliver them to the agricultural cooperative. And they were thirty-nine thousand beneficiaries. In fact, with your question, you say to share the EUR 9 million of EUR 30 000, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u6	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u7	This, Mr Stylion, is not anticipated and is illegal. The mistakes of the past, this government will not repeat them. We are not going to give 'Hajidakis package' and have to return it. They've gone through unreturned procedures of this kind. Firstly, why is it not provided for in the European regulation? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. Secondly, the connection to other products is the following, because according to your thinking, Mr Stylian, the connection will reach the acre of EUR 244, right? I think so. When the peach has 16 euros, the tomato has 55 euros and the wheat has 4 euros, because that's why it's called support. Madam President, I will say more in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u8	Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much for the tolerance in the first part. Minister, I am in the Greek Parliament to point out your own omissions and mistakes. They are not yours, they are the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. In the previous question I had tabled, Mr Apostleu still did not come to answer. He sent the then State Secretary that you've been to his place, Mr. Bolaris, once again said other things, beyond the essence. Together, we have made a little progress on the substance of the matter which we are discussing. So I tell you that Mr Apostolos turns his back on orange producers in Arta, Laconia and Argolida. Why the other two counties? Because Mr. Andrian after my timely question in May 2016, he tabled a simple question. Mr Andriano has not been answered so far. Mr Davakis, Member of the Laconia, has asked the same question before me and before Mr Andrianos, and the answer is that the European regulation by the Minister, by Mr Apostleos, allows the decision to be amended. Since we have actually entered, I now come to tell you that the actual amount you calculate for oranges from 31 euros is 80, is not 240. Make the division right. Secondly, I come to tell you that in industrial tomato, while at the same time the indicative price is 28 euros, by ministerial decision of Mr Apostle and the Ministry of Rural Development, the indicative price is EUR 55. In sugar beet, while it's 37 euros, it goes to 53. In the asparagus, while it's 38, at 102. I have other examples to tell you. So you have two standards. I also have to tell you that the Minister, Mr Apostlelos, confirms my first proposal that he turns my back on orange producers. It has amended the decision on industrial tomato, it has been amended for peaches. So what does Mr. Apostle do? He's not coming to the Greek Parliament. But it's not personal. It is a matter of fact that SYRIZA and ANEL are not interested in supporting the puffing against other neighbouring countries that are more competitive in this area. Do you know that Bulgaria is more exporting to citrus fruits than Greece? Is something wrong? One last thing I shall tell you, Minister: my question has been tabled in May. I said to the Minister at the time: 'Let's give it a chance'. Under the conditions we ask for the real producers, they will take the help, go to state whether they have documents, whether they have transport documents, whether in industry, in the producer group, in the trader or anywhere. We didn't say it was happening without any evidence. Those who are real producers and have data must reward them because today, Minister, you are overtaxing Greek farmers, taxing subsidies, driving them out of the countryside. I would remind you that it was the country that supported the country at the difficult times, and she will be called back to support it again, but unfortunately you are against the people who work in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u11	Mr Colleague, because you said that Mr. Bolaris said other things, I have the minutes with me. Mr Bollaris says in reply to your question: "Then, on the basis of this data, a process of changing the method of payment under the European regulation does not exist". Can you understand that if the connection is increased, this is illegal in accordance with the European Regulation? That's the first. Second...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u12	I have Mr Apostle's decisions on industrial tomato. I'm sorry to interrupt, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u13	You prefer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u14	Aren't we gonna have penalties there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u15	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u16	The Minister has signed decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Stile, don't interrupt me. It's a rhetorical question. Would you prefer, Mr Stile, to base the juice on the detriment of the producers of the fresh product? And then who's gonna produce oranges? That's why it's called support, not restoration. If the related producer reaches EUR 200 and EUR 244, no producer will be interested in producing and selling oranges. As for 2016 in the second part of the question, I would like to say that the budget is increased to EUR 11 million. The aid will be paid after the decision of the Minister for Rural Development has been adopted. This period of time is crucial, because the producers of Arta now need to be informed in order to implement what is provided for in the Ministerial Decision and the invoices to be delivered to the agricultural cooperatives concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u18	Read more questions that will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Foreign Ministers: First of all, the first question under number 241/22-11-2016, first question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouliakos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the use of the Olympic Sniper in Markopoulos Attiki, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Vasileidis. It will also not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Vassiliadis, the tenth under number 186/8-11-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Ministers of Culture and Sports, on the situation in the national sports centres and municipal sports centres. Also, it will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Vassiliadis, the eleventh under number 216/15-11-2016, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the decision of the Council of State to charge EUR 300,000,000 to 32 condemned of the world line "Athens 1997". The sixth question, under number 239/21-11-2016, of the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgios Germenis to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the "mortem attack by para-state raids to a Member of the Greek Parliament", will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Nikolaos Toskas. Also, it will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Nikolaos Toskas the eighth under number 238/21-11-2016 an up-to-date second-round question from the Independent MEP Mr. Jason Fotillas to the Minister of the Interior, on the protection of citizens and public property by the cocooners. It will now be discussed in the ninth under number 233/21-11-2016 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the abolition of the right of hotel staff to receive a one-off one-off pension of 20 years of insurance and the new reductions of 20%. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in the gallery are the presidents of the associations of Athens, the trade union and the business unions, who were mobilised, as you will know, by denouncing Mrs Ahtsoglou, who once again refused to see them. They consider it to be the killer of insurance and labour rights. After all, that is why it was chosen, as it turns out. And they want to hear your position on this important issue from you too. It is a very good coincidence that Mrs Koundoura, the Minister of Tourism, who has expressed a positive opinion on the request, is present. Let's hope it's not a feather, but what he said meant to mean it, because it's part of the government. Minister, the questions we have tabled to you are well known. What you will do to maintain the right to grant the single aid, in accordance with the provisions of the fund statute, by reintroducing the calculation method as it was before 2012 and by extending it to the entire sector. Moreover, the only 20-year-old will be an advance and the continued employment and insurance of workers being the liquidation during retirement and not just a refund of contributions. Of course, all those measures must be taken in order to stop this long delay in the award, which has passed over both years. We have said quite a lot about your circular, which is supposed to solve the difference between the government commissioner and the board of directors and with such a circular you abolish a right, which is from 1950, one of the last rights. And because I have also seen an article you are saying today that the crisis, as a whole, of the economy is going along with the insurance crisis, that's how you said it - or rather to be precise, you said 'the decline in social security has been followed by the shrinking of the economy' - I have this to say: but here we have no shrinkage, as you know very well. In tourism, we have a record of arrivals, a record of revenues, a record of big-time earners' profits. However, you also gave them a little gift and abolished the 20 years. It is a class policy, it is a policy that serves the profits of the masters, the major business groups and you must, of course, apologise to the workers. We invite them to continue their struggle, to overthrow this policy, which undermines their lives and abolishes all rights. That's what I have to say now, so I don't get over time, and in my denture I'll say the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Katsotis, the Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglou, could not refuse a meeting with employees' representatives in tourism. I know very well what was behind any unplanned meeting, because at least that is what we have to say, there was no scheduled meeting with the Minister, which was not held. You know that Mr Moscovisi is here and there was a very serious and urgent meeting on the management of matters concerning workers, the whole working class, collective agreements and a series of working issues. That was why there was no intention of avoiding this meeting. To restore the truth, I say that. And, of course, today's article you referred to says something very clear. With such unemployment, with such a reduction in contributions, with such a reduction in wage earnings, which are too small, so small that any imposition of contributions on them leads to poor results of revenue collection, is a problem and, of course, it turns out that social and economic development is linked to the development of social security. I have violated open doors with what I said and you will obviously agree with the essence of that thought. I do not want to support the maintenance of the provision, which has set specific limits on the payment of the one-off. It is obviously a question of applying a related provision to all workers, for whom the law provides that the one is granted during retirement. I have noted, on the occasion of another question, which was put to me in this Chamber, that more than 50% of working hotel staff are taking the single five to forty-seven years of age - and this means that they have completed twenty years of age - from the statute that the fifteen continuous years of insurance and the twenty years of insurance must have contributed to this condition. With an assessment, in principle, what comes to the conclusion is that we have a one-off reception in such times that, in fact, there is nowhere else. You're gonna tell me, and why won't that be maintained? It is an issue which, already, I have said that we need to look at it very carefully. It is important to create a sound basis for the social security reserves. I am not aware of the problems you have highlighted, I am not ignoring them, and I am not throwing them aside as unworthy of observation and appreciation. But what I have said before is that at the moment there are five thousand singles of old, five thousand singles not expected to be allocated earlier than the two years at their speeds, with the speed that we have imposed. We therefore have the time to appreciate things and to see on what basis we have to see the issue of the one with the specificity you say. I have said so before, and I think I have told you personally, but we cannot go to this stage where we are going to change the existing framework. However, I will correct your assessment: this is not a 20% reduction. It is the 70% difference that existed and went to 60%, it brings a change of around 14% as a reduction, but it is not real. It is not true, because you do not take into account that we abolished the sustainability factor of the Brutsi Act and abolished the GK, which would depend on the granting of a one-off rate, depending on all the agreements, which were summed up each time. They are mathematical types to analyse them in particular here, but these mathematical guys have led to a gradual reduction in singles, in an unforeseen way. We abolished that. Therefore, no comparison can be made with previous provisions and current ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u22	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. You said a calculation and saw that the average in the 20 years is forty-seven years. Do you have any statistics on how many people keep working over forty-seven years? You know they're fired over thirty-five, they're anti-tourist, and they're not acceptable in this industry? The Minister knows next door, she can tell you. So do make such a statistic, but you only did the one that would be of benefit to your policy, which strengthens its capital and needs, because that is your line of policy. You are equal to every insurance expectation of workers, because this is a precondition for creating the friendly environment for investors, for a total reduction in the price of the labour force, which, beyond wages, has the insurance, health, education, welfare, has all these benefits, which have been won for years through hard struggles. We, are sure the overthrows don't stop here. Already, you are announcing another opening of insurance from 1-1-2017 with new measures, with a new calculation of pensions, where pensioners will see further reductions in pensions, single pensions, other health benefits and welfare benefits. Minister, you are not going to convince the workers that this is for their own good. For their good, that is, you abolish a right that gave them the opportunity in this difficult phase of their lives, which are fired, which are unclaimed, which nobody gets at work, who had a stock of their savings for so many years, you tell them "you will go and look for the trash to eat". This is what you do and you are their enemy, you undermine their lives and you will remain in history as one called "Petropoulos", who abolished a right that they had since '50s, Petropoulos of course of the SYRIZA Government, the second time Left. He dared not do so by any government. Sifas did it in 1992 for three months and brought it back. And you come today and you're removed from a development sector, are you projecting it as a pilot with what though? With working relations 'jungla'. Nowadays, there are a lot of articles that speak of industrial relations in this sector, which must be ashamed of you and Mrs. Kouturas, who are side by side and all of your government! Because what are you doing? You say: “The previous ones were worse. What do we do? We make them less worse than the previous ones would have done." And that's what you want to convince the workers, the people? The overthrow of this policy is a one-way for the workers and the populace. You cannot satisfy any of his needs. Instead, satisfy all the needs of the great capital for very cheap labour force. And that will not be allowed by the workers. Already - if you would like - there are samples of them assemble in their unions, that they are involved in spite of terrorism. We also want to welcome the day-to-day mobilisation, which is a preparation for the mobilisation on 8 December, which will be a massive, universal strike, which will give an answer to both you and the government as a whole for all of this policy, both in insurance and in health and in education and on every aspect of the life of the worker and of the people's family, which, unfortunately, is undermining itself to be able to support capitalist recovery, capitalist profitability. With this, we call on you, even at the last minute, to withdraw this circular and, of course, to implement the demands of the workers, which are these questions at the beginning, namely to keep the twenty-year period, to expand throughout the whole industry, to be an advance on the one and, of course, that time, which you say that cannot be otherwise, to reduce the one in a much less time for the workers to be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u24	Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u25	Good for me, but for Mrs. Koudura you said such good words, why did you get them back? You said he's backing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u26	I fell, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u27	Mrs. Kundura didn't say anything different, so you can say that you have to do something. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u28	He's backing! But how?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u29	Mr Katsotis, what I have done - and also to be clear to the friends who are watching from the gallery - it was not a piece of legislation that you invoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u30	Worse!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u31	I'll explain what that was. I have come up with a disagreement from the Community Commissioner, so that she can quickly start paying the TIPI, because she had to pay as early as August 2013, actually reduced in the way I told you, based on the replacement rate that has changed, but not so reduced or missing a single one that would arise if we complied with Mr Brutsi's rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u32	It's like pensions, it won't be reduced!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u33	No, I'm talking about real data. Therefore, it would be wrong to keep, especially the hotel staff, without a single job, because that would be the case. Legally and administratively, the resolution of the dispute would be hampered and the extradition process would not go a long way and would naturally not benefit the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u34	What argument is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u35	That's right. Look at it. That's true. It's not a point of argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u36	What's the truth?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u37	One-off version had to be advanced. The national analogy authority could not do anything if it did not do that. I explained earlier this: we have a problem of waiting already five thousand accumulated applications. We have before us the time it will take to satisfy them. And I explained that we will be able to weigh things so that we can see them at the level that we want to achieve returns on capitalisation, which I imagine you would like to see, at last, because we do not have any reserves in social security. In this context, let us see it. But I must stress that about two thousand thirty-seven of these one-off, five thousand to be satisfied, are twenty-year-old and hotel staff below the age limit, i.e. without retirement. We already apply this and make a provision in the law that all insured persons and those who had applied for up to 12 May 2016 should not be able to satisfy, regardless of whether they had completed the pension conditions. So we take care, and we see a few issues. However, we cannot accept either - and I do not want you to react, because you obviously do not accept it, even though you say so - that the only help was to address the problems of unemployment to the hotel staff. We must strike unemployment and hit it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u38	You know, however, that neither the employers are involved in the state budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u39	Yeah, I know. We need to hit unemployment. Other measures are what they need and we must take care of these measures, including black and insecure work in the field of hotel activities and tourism. And that is in front of our programme and you will see that the efforts we are going to make will be intensified. Show some patience. The scriptures are positive, at least as far as we are concerned, when it comes to dealing with these people's problems. Administration of the single dose already proves it. In other places there is much more. There are difficulties in the system of ITDs. I believe that in the next period we will find those mechanisms so that we can give the single ones much faster and look at the other issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u40	You've got it all. What patience should people show? You've got it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u41	All right, Mr. Katatotis. You've said it more blush. They will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The first under number 237/21-11-2016 topical question by the New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the legal status of a Cypriot company participating in the Dawn S.A.'s Stock Exchange. Also, the second under number 227/18-11-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Ausgenakis, to the Minister of Health, on the systematic degradation of the National Health System, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Also, the third with No 232/21-11-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about the digitisation of mobile monuments and the miserable working relationships called for by the archaeologists, will not be discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. Also, we will not discuss the seventh under number 235/21-11-2016 topical question of the second-round question of the MP Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the abandonment of the radiant monument of Amphipolis. Finally, the fifth question by No. 240/22-11-2016 of a topical question by MP Prevezis of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the trade union persecutions at the House of Athens, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister. The last and third questions for today, namely the twelfth question under number 211/15-11-2016, a topical question by the MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition, Antonio Balomenakis to the Minister of Tourism, on the introduction of a legislative framework to deal with the uncontrolled expansion of the phenomenon all inclusive to tourism, will now be discussed. Mr Balommenakis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening, Minister. Of course, no one is aspiring in these time frames to develop, not even exhaust, this complex phenomenon. It really is an economic, legal, social phenomenon. However, the ambition of this timely question is to be able to develop a dialogue, a reflection, because I have to tell you that especially this year - as you will know - the complaints of many small shops around major hotels have mainly increased to expand the phenomenon. And you should know - I am sure - that it has been extended to many small and medium-sized units. And this latter is done not always with the will of the owners, who are forced many times outside their planning to make extensions and conversions to their hotels. We know and will certainly accept that it is not the best form of tourism nor the most efficient for our country's economy. I believe that a large number of tourism workers will agree that restricting this phenomenon would be good on all sides and would also stimulate the quality of tourism, but also the economic activity of many sectors. Some thoughts, as you know, have already been developed. A thought, for example, could be a peasant - that is, in the sense of the area - the identification of the areas where this form of tourism will be allowed. Another option could be to develop a form of cooperation with adjacent companies, in the form of voucher. The Association of Hoteliers in Chania - and I will table this document - has, however, developed such an activity successfully with a number of catering shops. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Balomeni, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Another option could be a local product preference clause. Or, if we wanted, we could consider and plan those who are calling for state funding or Community funding to commit themselves to not joining in this form of tourism. In this outline, in these thoughts, I wanted your opinion and I will come back later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u43	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. All inclusive is a type of popular packages that have been established in Greece, as in abroad, in recent decades. It is a product, as you quite rightly said, of private agreements concluded by tourist agencies and accommodation owners. This is not a dominant model, especially in our homeland, and it is not only developing in this way, because we know that international trends, particularly in the field of family holidays, serve specific travellers' requirements as they cover the provision of accommodation, semi-food, often complete maintenance. The Ministry is in cooperation with all regions, local authorities, tourism operators and the private sector about how the landscape is generally shaped in supply and demand. We support the upgrading of tourism enterprises based on international competition and we emphasise the quality and enhancement of the competitiveness and services they offer and their interconnection with the local society. Of course, we have made many major negotiations and agreements with private individuals, with the hotel owners, in order - what you said quite rightly - to promote the voucher, which they have done. We can only encourage them to also encourage tourists to visit the destination, to get out of the hotel, to taste Greek cuisine, to visit local markets, to visit museums, attractions, to spend part of their budget available on the unique thematic experiences that can enjoy in Greece. The truth is that, in general, the travel budget has been reduced in recent years, so there is a general reduction in tourists' spending on destinations. Nevertheless, we promote thematic tourism products so as to highlight the identity of the place and try to get a greater share in the international market of visitors who want to know our culture and, more generally, the unique religious monuments, but also the infinite potential through gastronomy, marine tourism, diving. Tourism, religious, thermal, marine, cultural, coaching and all these forms of tourism in which we invest generate more revenue and thus disperse the benefits in general and the tourist development in local society, create jobs. At the same time we support programmes and initiatives such as Greek breakfast, so that they can get products from local communities. The Hotel Chamber of Greece also supports us very much, because we are in direct and continuous contact, so that it is constantly expanding. Over the last two years the Ministry has also provided many quality signals in the Greek cuisine and it is another incentive for those especially who come because the food in Greece is popular. In fact, they are also in the approval process, in order to complete the next time too many such signals, because there is this possibility through global platforms, especially in gastronomic tourism, but also shopping, shopping, markets, where Greece has become quite popular. We are therefore trying to enrich and diversify the Greek tourism product. The efforts we are doing are to stimulate wider economic activity at each Greek destination, support local communities and bring additional sources of revenue. So, because we cannot take legislative action, what we are doing is encourage and create the conditions. And that's what we do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u45	Mr Balomannakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u46	Madam Minister, first of all, thank you for your reply. I would stress that the question does not come from a mood of demonization of this phenomenon. I understand that it is a global phenomenon and that is why I have used the word'restriction' in tolerated contexts. I think that from what you said the key word was the words encouragement, which, let me say, needs concrete measures, studies, programmes and incentives to all those who could help. With regard to the scope for legislative or State intervention, I have the following suggestions: of course, there are private agreements. Of course, it is an area where the state cannot intervene, without interference, because it is private agreements and there is the principle of freedom of contracts, in 361 of the Civil Code. But there are, Madam Minister, legal possibilities, clauses, laws, provisions, which allow for a more comprehensive view. Let me point out the following three: First, Article 281 of the Civil Code, which aims to combat the abuse of the dominant position of one side of the traders when they are abused. There are cases where there are abuses of right. And I am making a small parentheses, to tell you - perhaps you will have it in mind - that it is not a common secret that enough money from these transactions does not come into Greece. I think that we should know and emphasise this and be an incentive one. Secondly, I would like to point out to you that the provision of Law 3959/2011, which actually prohibits clauses and such provisions that can put one part at a disadvantage. Thirdly, Madam Minister, it is the provision of Article 106 of the Constitution which requires the State to regulate economic activity towards the overall benefit rather than just one side. These are the general clauses that could be exploited. I wanted to say that it really is very important to develop thematic tourism, all these things and everyone understands it. I repeat, however, that this is also a matter of measures and I would like to ask your Ministry to try to give a thought to operators on an organised basis, taking advantage of the international standards, the examples we have and, more generally, to be able to work in balance. We, who are from the tourist area, have better images often from the complaints of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Of course, we respect the autonomy of the contracts, but I think there is a scope for the government, for the government, for the government to intervene - I repeat - in balance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u48	Mr Colleague, you are absolutely right and I understand that. But we must be competitive. The "all inclusive" through studies carried out and especially by private entrepreneurs shows that it is a very small percentage in Greece, of the 10% order. It's not that big to be alarming. Those who offer this product to international customers aim not only to maintain the visitors who choose this type of holiday in Greece, but to charm them in such a way that they do not choose another destination. The increase in expenditure from this form of tourism comes from the coordination and joint actions of local operators and businesses. And what do we do? Firstly, we are attempting to better inform visitors of the destination and the possibilities it offers. Secondly, we promote the special tourist identity of the destination. At the same time, we develop incentives and experiences for guests off-site so that they can make trips, eat out, shop. For our part, we are working to offer more choices from all inclusive. We can encourage, but we cannot limit ourselves. We also work with the regions in each destination with targeted and integrated packages, so that we can attract visitors from our traditional markets and from the new markets that we open, as you quite rightly said, with the thematic tourism we have and via the EOT, which is the vehicle for implementing tourism policy, we are promoting, with the international public, the genuine travel experiences that Greece can have and all that Greece can offer as a global destination of 365 days a year. These incentives we offer to tourist businesses in the country are for tourists to have more choices, and in fact all these private businessmen have discovered that the more their customers live outside the hotel, the more they become, the more - really - they are having fun. And they return, they become the same loyal tourists and bring their friends, so as to increase the current of the tourist to Greece. Our goal is to grow constantly. Tourism cannot be restricted. It should serve every traveler and every visitor in the way he wishes to make his holidays, especially in an environment that in recent years is not very friendly. You can see that there are geopolitical developments. Tourists want to live safely on their holidays and feel able to protect their family and have fun. They've made a turn in going more with groupings and being a little more organized on their journeys. On the other hand, younger people who love adventure are the ones who choose to go alone and not enter tourist packages all inclusive. I believe that the investments that are being made - and you quite rightly said about small and medium-sized tourist enterprises - are being carried out in such a way that those conditions exist and that jobs can be created and that tourist packages can be used economically to benefit local communities. And that's what we do. But, as I said before, it is a part which we can only strengthen, encourage, direct, create, as you say, incentives, which we are doing, but we cannot impose. Because it is a form of tourism, which, as I told you - and I insist on it - is not a sovereign element of our country. It's a place and it's not a big place. It's a 10% to 12%, from the surveys that have been done, this particular whole inclusive food and stay. Most have understood that it is to their advantage that this piece should be opened to serve tourists and enjoy the beauty of local communities, but also to have these authentic experiences, whether knowing the place or consuming the products of the place. But, I understand what you're saying, you're right. Everything that goes through our hand has been done, but the most important thing is that the private sector understands it as well and is heading in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th Kozanis High School. We welcome you to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform you that today was a procedure for questions called parliamentary scrutiny, but it has just finished. At least you will see the Chamber where the parliamentary battles are taking place, so that you have an idea where Members are sitting - here is the Bureau - since you have come to visit this wonderful and historic building. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Monday 10 October 2016, Wednesday 12 October 2016, Thursday 13 October 2016 and Friday 14 October 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u50	The minutes of Monday 10 October 2016, Wednesday 12 October 2016, Thursday 13 October 2016 and Friday 14 October 2016 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-28-S1-commons.u51	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.06 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 29 November 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work: according to the supplementary agenda to be distributed.
