ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 18-10-2016 authorisation, the minutes of the IA's PRACTICE sessions were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Tuesday, 18 October 2016, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Greek Research and Innovation Foundation and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, twenty-nine students and students and five educational attendants from the 1st PASAL Salamis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: 'Social and Solidarity Economics and Development of its Bodies and Other Provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting on 13 October 2016, to discuss the draft law in two meetings. The draft law will be discussed in the sitting at the beginning. At the meeting on Thursday, October 20, 2016, the articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed as one section. Before I give the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Stoyannides, I will give the floor to the Minister to announce any legislative improvements. Here, Mrs Antonopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling the text with the legislative improvements, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u3	I would first of all like to thank you for the fruitful debate we have had, which has indeed proved productive, at the four meetings of the Standing Committee on Social Affairs and I hope both today's debate on the draft law on the social and solidarity economy and the development of its institutions and tomorrow's being just as constructive and finally, that we can agree on a number of issues, which are very important, not only for our Government but also for the world, for the people. We have already received this support, as I said before, in the Committees. As you will have the opportunity to see, the legal improvements are divided into two categories. The first category concerns improvements in formalities, which clarify points, which we understood were not clear from the outset and created an insecurity as to what each of them means, and what exactly is foreseen for those involved in the social and solidarity economy. The second category of changes concerns proposals put forward by the institutions, but also by you, ladies and gentlemen, during our debate. Some of these proposals have been evaluated, so we have evaluated them positively and have already joined. To sum up, I should like to refer to the second category - very briefly, although you will now take it - to define some areas of change. As far as the social impact measurement tool is concerned, it is no longer an obligation for operators.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u4	Please, Minister, just as long as you have to present what you have to present and in your speech you will say in detail what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u5	As you wish, Mr President. I would refer very briefly to key points.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u6	Let him do it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u7	Pharmaceuticals. It'll help, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u8	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. As I have said, it will not be an obligation for the OLAF bodies. It will be an open tool for the same use of the institutions. The obligation on operators to pay 10% to 30% of their profits was withdrawn. The KALOS cooperation formalities with the wider public think that they are now clearly reflecting our intention to correct essential issues that you have tabled. The delegation of powers added to the article on volunteers concerns the future interconnection of the voluntary register with the ‘ERGAN’ system in order to protect both volunteers and works and, of course, not to supply unpaid, undeclared work. The unemployed under twenty-five years were added to the special groups. The confusion about the double obligation to register in a social economy register and GFCM has been cleared up. It's a record, not two. We also think that by the treatment we have done and submitted to you, it is clear that natural persons who recommend partnerships will not become professionals, will not open 'block', but will be treated in insurance and tax as employees. Finally, I would like to refer to the Social and Solidarity Fund. In Article 9, the new Article 10 shall be added paragraph 5, which reads: ‘Since the completion of the procedures for the establishment and operation of the entity referred to in paragraph 1, an ‘Social and Solidarity Fund’ shall be established under the supervision of the Special Secretariat...’. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal for tax measures and reductions, made by almost all parties, representatives and institutions, as you will see, will be tabled by amendment within a few hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u10	The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Stoyannides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased and honoured to present the bill under discussion on the social and solidarity economy, an institution that is importantly supportive of the special and vulnerable groups, but also of the workers. Most of all, however, I am very pleased that this bill comes to Parliament with broad acceptance of the parties, at least in principle, as it emerged from the committee's meetings. This is because the project is undoubtedly in the right direction, as the protection and support of the weak is an obligation for all of us. The Government, while continuing and developing every positive initiative, diagnosed and documented the problems of the earlier framework of Law 4019/2011 and after a long-term study of the field, brings to the vote a modern bill, which is now structured and aimed at removing the serious distortions and abuses identified attempts to promote the social economy in order to act as a factor of productive reconstruction. The social economy has the dynamic of creating economic environments, which will bring many benefits to all stakeholders, such as emancipation and safe work, providing exclusively beneficial social work, high quality of products and services provided, respect for the social and natural environment, alleviating social inequalities and exclusion phenomena. The economic environment created by the social economy is characterised by stability and resilience to external uses. Most importantly, the social economy has the potential to mobilise social resources with great efficiency in job creation and the endogenous development of productive tissue. In particular, youth, which in Greece has a major share of post-training education, can use the social economy as a vehicle to proceed with the creation of productive schemes. This is why, after consultation as a special group, the long-term unemployed under the age of twenty-five years were also identified. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that high-level knowledge of young people will be the chapter in order to develop a series of sustainable and innovative business initiatives. Finally, the social economy allows and presupposes the democratic and participatory design of the overall economy as a social economy. All operators, local communities, producer and user, service providers are involved. In this design, the subjective aims of individual companies are not lost or limited to achieving maximum profit, but gain new functions and serve new needs collectively captured. For all these reasons, the development of the social economy is a priority for our own government. What we call a social and solidarity economy is the third pillar of the economy, differentiated from both the private and the public sectors. This sector is differentiated from the public and private sectors, as the activities developed by the social economy give priority to meeting social needs and not to making the most profit, such as the private sector. In addition, these activities shall be carried out through collective and democratic procedures for participation and decision-making. If I wanted to make a description of how I understand the social economy, I would say that it is to facilitate the participation of citizens in productive activities through self-management and collective social entrepreneurship. The law, of course, is more appropriate and gives a more complete definition. It says that the social economy is the alternative form of organisation of relations between production, distribution, consumption and reinvestment, based on the principles of democracy, equality, solidarity, cooperation and respect for man and the environment. The law also develops and promotes concepts, such as collective advantage, social benefit, social innovation, sustainable development, social inclusion and social impact, concepts that have been overcome by the invoked public interest. In short, I would say that the social economy aims at producing products and providing services, which are not provided or adequately offered by the private and public sectors, with a view to accessing the members of the local society to them. It seeks to promote the biopolitics of those producing or offering these services and aims to create new jobs. It seeks democratic functioning in the way of internal labour organisation, in the definition of wages, production and reinvestment, and lastly it aims at sustainable development and the fight against social inequalities. The potential for the development of the social economy is many. In other countries, such as France, Italy, Spain, the United States and Canada, thousands of social economy enterprises operate, which in some of these countries contribute about 10% of national GDP, while in Greece, this figure does not exceed 1%. The instrument for the development of the social economy is collaborative, but also a clear and stable environment that can support these efforts. This environment we create. To date, although there have been initiatives, the social economy has not developed. The absence of an integrated institutional framework, which would facilitate the development of the social economy's activities, and would also leave behind the degenerating elements that have been liberated into the operation of cooperatives. The law brought by the Ministry of Labour is trying to put an end to the past and to initiate a new process through an institutional framework. In particular, the new law opens up the scope of the social and solidarity economy, in addition to the well-known social cooperatives, the COMES, and all other multi-faceted legal entities. This means that the social economy no longer has reference to a legal person, that of the ESCF, but a decisive role is played by the way each legal person operates. In particular, with the new institutional framework, it can be considered as any legal entity operating on the basis of the following principles: Democratic function: One member, one vote. Application of profit distribution restrictions as follows: 5% of profits is retained as a reserve in the company, 35% of profits are shared among workers and the rest is invested in creating new jobs and expanding the company's activities, which is again attributed to public utility actions. So the criterion of membership of someone in the social economy will not be the legal form, but compliance with these principles. Thus, regardless of whether an entity is a COMPA, a consumer cooperative or another legal entity, it will be able to join the social economy, provided that it embraces the above principles. The new law also establishes the Social Economy Fund, consisting of resources from national, Community and private investment. The fund will support all the social economy actors who are engaged in productive activities and do not have access to the banking system. It establishes a Special Secretariat for Social and Solidarity Economy, which will coordinate the implementation and implementation of government policy in this area, as reflected in the national strategy for the social and solidarity economy, monitor the legality of actors in their operation, cooperate with international organisations and institutions or services of the European Union or other States and gather European good practice of innovative actions. I note at this point that this special secretariat, like the Roma secretariat, will be served by an invitation to the public and, of course, the recruitments will be carried out through the AACC. It establishes a transparent framework for public cooperation with the social economy actors, specifying the concession of the use of LGD A's and B'''s assets or public and social security bodies and the conclusion of three-way contracts with the general public sector and the LGD, for the study and execution of projects and programmes for the provision of social benefit services. It forms the framework for facilitating cooperation between the actors and the creation of associations of social economy actors for their collective representation. Mostly - and here I want to stand by, as I think it is a great innovation of the law - it introduces a new legal person, the cooperative of workers, that is, a cooperative partnership of at least three natural persons, who are cooperative, in order to be bio-liquidized by their work. This new legal person, which already exists in many European legislations and is first introduced into the Greek legal system, can be used by workers of bankrupt, problematic or abandoned businesses. We already have patterns of workers in our country who have been out of work because the businessman has left. The company, however, remains and the workers are available to continue production, because they want and can. For example, I mention 'BIOME' and 'ENKOLO'. These schemes must be subject to a framework, and these initiatives must be assisted. This initiative is particularly important, and if it is combined with a corresponding amendment to the bankruptcy code, I think that through the workers' association, many companies will manage with the involvement of the workers to be cleared up. Secondly, workers' cooperatives may, of course, also be used by very small or individual enterprises, which under threat of globalisation or other economic difficulties, choose to engage in cooperative schemes. Thirdly, they can also be used by young people and young people who do not want or cannot join a deregulation labour market, but want to stay in the country and be able to work with dignity. This is essentially about correcting the distortion created by the collective and productive COMES, which was intended to operate in sectors with a strong social or environmental impact. The absence of a legal form of association of workers, a scheme which does not necessarily demonstrate social or environmental activity, obliges them to pretend to the public administration that their activity has a social purpose and public administration on the other hand to recognise a function of the social environmental objective as fulfilled. This dually distorted process ends with the introduction of the legal form of the cooperative of workers, which allows democratic operation and limited distribution of profits, without at the same time obliging the cooperative of workers to prove further an activity that it does not carry out. It must be, ladies and gentlemen, in such operations that the state is honest with the citizens, so that it will then claim the same from the citizens, or we are entering into social contracts of lies and hypocrisy. Finally, the new law rationalises and enhances transparency in the functioning of the ESCBs, since, for example, it sets a ratio of employees and non-members, in order to avoid the phenomenon of the ESCB being established in order to become employment offices. Secondly, it extends the scope of the COMCOMEPs, in which special groups are now involved, victims of domestic violence, long-term unemployed under the age of twenty-five, refugees and asylum seekers, in addition to vulnerable groups, AMEs, dependent, disqualified, prisoners, deported, minors, to support their integration into economic and social life. Thirdly, the proportion of the gross revenue of a JEP of collective and social benefit, derived from public money, cannot exceed 65% of its revenue, with a view to avoiding the creation of State-owned enterprises or the development of customer relations. The Minister stressed the committees - and that is what I would like us to do - that this law does not give us any credit, we support. Fourthly, it settles and sets a order on voluntary work, while at the same time combating black work. And fifthly, we are ending the bureaucracy through the register of social economy operators to which all the alerts are registered, and then it ensures publications, resulting in the immediate strengthening of their transparency of operation, as elements of the COMCOMs are made accessible by all citizens. For this project, we are providing funds of EUR 157 million, which will be allocated in the next period to support the sector for the creation of new jobs. At that time, the social economy can play an important role. Let us not forget that unemployment has reached 1/3 of the active population, economic activity has decreased by 25%, the social initiative is to play a decisive role in the period of productive social and ecological reconstruction, as a factor in the development of society's needs and capabilities, but also as a factor in response to relevant options of the state. Reconstruction cannot be based solely on the pursuits of private initiatives linked to a private economy structure which collapsed after the crisis. It is necessary, but also an opportunity to use social availability to speed up the growth of employment in the regions of the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Finally, I would also like to make a brief reference to the set-aside arrangement for the EEAS, which we estimate is 450 million from 2006 to 2012. I want to make a clarification. It refers somewhere to the article that there will be a 45% cut. This 45%, however, only refers to 10% of the debts, because many operators have already received 90% in advance. In fact, the report is talking about 4.5% of the total, although the Minister came to the last committee meeting and said that for the rest, up to EUR 15 000, there will be a 20% cut, that is, 2% of the total, and from EUR 15 000 and up to EUR 45%, i.e. 4.5%, to avoid misinterpretation. Also, with regard to specific debts, there are citizens who had paid their medical expenses and had not taken them for so many years. They're gonna pay off with 100%. I would like to clarify this because there have been many misunderstandings. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the draft law has been put into a long-term consultation. All views have been heard, all the remarks have been taken into account, and now I think it would be a sign of conscientiousness, this bill being a law adopted unanimously, otherwise by a large majority, by this House. We have a field of controversy on many issues that have been voted on or will be voted on. There's no reason for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. Mrs Sophia Vultusis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the social economy bill, which has been widely accepted by Parliament, and on the part of the Minister there has been intensive cooperation in order to integrate many, almost all, of the proposals made by the parties and bodies. In other words, we are talking about a wide-ranging consensus meeting, which is its purpose and must be to inform public opinion about the third sector of the economy, which is, in many cases, an unknown land for our country. However, we are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that this sitting today is to be shaded by some insanity, a rumoured and accompanied by an imminent presence of the Prime Minister in plenary. The rumours say - I am sorry to speak with rumors, but rumours were also the personal life of the judge, but they came to the forefront - that Mr Tsipras awaits today's decisions of the Conference of Presidents on whether or not to establish a National Broadcasting Council to make this intervention. It is possible - the rumours say - to wait for an intervention on the subject, that is another act of the tragedy. The course of this very serious issue of freedom of the press and our own democracy has been marked by a number of coups and we do not know what will be the continuation. We're in a void. We haven't discussed the social economy since yesterday. We are discussing what intervention the Prime Minister will be doing today in Parliament. The government, through Mr Papapas, has, since summer, imposed this coup, trying to prejudge the decision of the Council of State and pending its meeting. Yesterday, the Council of State took a first important decision, accepting the appeals of the TV stations threatened with padlocking. And what the government didn't do, of course, to throw black into the briefing. Even these disgusting methods of using personal data of judges and any citizen, I will add, with the publication of illegal material, some people have been involved. The judges spoke yesterday about 'fascist methods' and this is very serious when it comes from legal associations. Yesterday, however, in the Council of State, there were judges in Greece. The Council of State, ladies and gentlemen of the government, has a heroic history and it is already proved to be worthy of that history, the story of a Michael Stasinopoulou, who, for his brave attitude as President of the Council of State, suffered unprecedented persecution. So do not try to bend the mind of the judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u14	Now, these parallels with the dictatorship, Ms. Vultesis, could be missed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u15	We warn: The process is under way. Let the Council of State decide unaffected and not to warn the government. And Mr Tsipras, personally, like Mr Pappas, who executes orders, does not try, during the day, the next decision of the Council of State, and while the main debate is on the subject, to prejudge anything. They're drunkards, which won't pass. And because we are talking about the social economy and social solidarity - and this is how I will go about it - I tell you that you are being persecuted and choked, and Mr Tsipras personally, that he will get 255 million from the canalarchs to share them with those who need it. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You're saying he's got it. Yes, what it has taken, ladies and gentlemen - I will explain, because you are causing it - give it immediately, to function the social structures which are closed as from 1 November. Why don't you give it to me? This is a mess. Give it now - how much it takes -15 million from the canals and do not leave all the workers on the road, especially all the beneficiaries, because we are talking about the social economy and social solidarity. It's so simple. But you can't, because you know here it's not a tunnel, I get it from here and I get it there. We want you to show us that from this money you have taken it - because this money has been put in the memorandum, I think - from this money, from this account, to leave money for what you are saying and, above all, directly. Let go of the hires. The recruitments have been approved by the government since 2014 and you did not do them, because you had other priorities. Now, now, from this money you have received, the 80 million you are saying, give you immediately, disbursed today, now that we are talking about social structures, do not close the social grocery stores, social cooking, social pharmacies, which are threatened. Let me tell you something. Stop this story with the 255 million. And I'll tell you why. Because it's crumbs in front of what our economy has lost since the imposition of capital controls, one year from 2015 and you've been going for two years. Our economy has lost from the fall in exports, for the first time under 12 billion, and this is also related to the social economy and social solidarity. The economy has lost from the officially, now, announcing drop in tourism. It has never happened before that tourism July and August. Yesterday you had the SETE conference and the Deputy Prime Minister went there and heard them. And it has lost and lost our economy from the extremely expensive short-term borrowing, through interest-rate bills of government, which on your own government charged Greek taxpayers with 180 million euros. So don't do the "wedding of Cana" with 250 million, when you've lost billions of exports, from the capital control, from the insect note you're continuing. In October you made three editions. That's not what we're talking about, nobody hears it, the stones rise. Take note, therefore, of the fact that we have a bill in which we have been consulted, we have agreed, we have contributed, both sides have tried, and all sides have tried, to move the social economy forward in our country, and today there is this threat, the threat of transferring into plenary, which is discussing a very serious matter for the country and its future, and for its GDP, a conflict and a divisive situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u16	Who's doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u17	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u18	I told you now. My arguments don't think you can counter them. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, do me a favor. Stop it. You can't even sneeze us or remove the reason. You personally requested that my Minutes be deleted from the committee. Do me a favor! Stop it completely. Tell us what you're doing with tourism, how you destroyed all the islands of the northeast Aegean and leave 250 million. How much did you lose from Lesvos, Samos, Chios? Leave those fairy tales. You took 250 million, and you've taken the exports under 12 billion. That's why you're apologizing. The Social Economy Act, as we had the opportunity to say, in our country it has been implemented, has already been passed since 2011. There was not even the necessary information at that time. The law could not be implemented. We believe - and we repeat this at this stage too - that there is a need for political staff and citizens themselves to become acquainted with the subject of the third sector of the economy. So I say to everyone that there are two areas in the economy, namely, public and private, and there are also a third sector, very developed throughout the world, particularly in Europe, but not developed in our country, which operates as a social economy. But there is one ignorance on this issue and many are those who watch economic activity with care, which does not follow standard rules and is not based on business profit. We must therefore make it clear from the principle that no matter what laws we vote on, if there is no political will to develop in our own country the third sector, which - I repeat - in the other countries brings 5% and 10% of GDP, we will not be able to do anything. This economic activity is to say that it can be developed in every sector. The difference with joint ventures is that the purpose is not the profit for the businessman, but the profit for the society as a whole. In other words, it is the first time - and this is how I should like to say briefly - that the interests of capital are equal to the interests of the workers. And these enterprises must be governed by specific principles, morals, respect for the environment, management autonomy, democratic decision-making, applying the 'one member, one vote' principle. Activities in the third sector are normal businesses - to keep it in mind - they produce GDP, such as others, but they are intended to employ the unemployed, the disabled, vulnerable social groups, always on the basis of the social benefit. In other words, their main purpose - because there are categories - is social inclusion, integration. The gain they seek is, of course, only for the benefit of society as a whole. They pay wages, they reinvest, they create new jobs. In other words, they are enterprises without entrepreneurs in the well-known sense of the term. Greece has a very large tradition in the cooperative since the 16th century. Remember the vineyards, which were made by the networking, the cooperative of Chios for the production of silk, the Mademochoria of Halkidiki, the maritime cooperatives of Hydra, Spetses and Fish, the Christads of Konitsa, the communities of Pelion. Throughout Greece there were some such cooperatives. This is where the cooperative started and went to the rest of Europe, where they have come to have very blossoms even cooperative banks. Greece could therefore benefit significantly by increasing GDP from such an activity. We have therefore said that we support in principle and we will see why we have not fully seen any legislative improvements. In committee, however, the Minister has accepted almost all the proposals and the parties and bodies, and we now believe that all of this will have a very good effect. I have not only heard where we have the disagreement on equal work. I'll see it though. You said that you would retire, but we also have tomorrow's day on the articles. The main thing is that the whole system, all parties to believe that the third sector's development can increase the country's GDP. No, of course, not directly at 5% or 10%, as they are elsewhere, but instead to break off from this 0% or 0.5% that exists in Greece. I would like to say on the subject that experts need not only in the state but also in the parties. In other words, I believe that the parties should set up special committees within their structures, which will study what is happening in other countries and make proposals based on Greek specificities. In other words, our parties must understand what the social economy is and also make the separation between the social economy and corporate social responsibility, a practice that all businesses follow, but it is not a social economy. We are chasing the growth of GDP literally with the duel. We are looking to find money, we are looking to combat unemployment, to integrate vulnerable social groups living with poor, now, allowances, and they could add another income. Because the law, and rightly so, does not prevent income from the social economy and state benefits from being paid to these social groups. It is not possible, in other words, to know that all countries are increasing their GDP and that we continue to whistle in an ideal way. We are therefore voting in favour of the bill at first instance. We'll see the legislative improvements and have tomorrow's debate. We welcome the fact that the Minister accepted most of our remarks, the other parties and the institutions and proceeded to the necessary improvements and corrections. We will have the opportunity, as I have said, to place ourselves on the articles. I hope, once again, that this will be an opportunity for informing Members and public opinion, because the crucial issue now is the law to be implemented. That is why we do not object even in cases where they have created - we will say this tomorrow - to a certain degree - to a suspicion of a state enlargement. Because we do believe that very specific knowledge is needed, so that this legislation can go ahead and be acted, and because I personally believe that if it did not go ahead, it might not have been because there was no service with people with very specific knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Daphne Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Koukoutsis is the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Again today, then, in the same work of viewers as the channels again. When it was first discussed that day, the pensioners received the supplementary pension of EUR 100 less. And our old ages didn't deal with it, but they were concerned about whether to get that big-time contractor or any other channel. We keep talking about the tradition we have cooperatives in Greece, the Vineyards etc. No one, however, refers to another cooperative tradition in Greece, for example Mr Gavala, in the 1980s, for those who know about it. They were cooperatives too. Law 4019/2011 stuck, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy told us, because there were no appropriate people with proper knowledge. That's a point of view too. On the other hand, dismantle social structures. You dismantle social structures and it doesn't sound like talking. You know, with the money you have retained from Golden Dawn, we, our party - you don't believe it, because you can't understand it - we live from our own pocket and from the poor money, the little money that the poor people who support Golden Dawn and from the wages of our MPs pay. But you can't understand it. And yet, if you have the carnage - to allow me to speak popularly - give us this money, see how many millions or hundreds of thousands of Greeks we can live and feed with that money. That's what you can't understand. And for the Greek people to know, now we must approach the eight million. It's okay. Our party will live, but this money will be returned to the Greeks, because that's where they have to go. It's their money. Unfortunately, all the political forces of the so-called democratic arch have shown that its strategic choice is the faithful, literally, implementation of the Memorandum policies. There have been governments and politicians who have made themselves subordinates and faithful handlers of orders, cheques and pursuits of international loan sharks. Now, now, you are also guardians of interests not of the country, but of foreign corporations. The tragic thing about you, of course, yesterday's rivals of Marxism and today's extremist neoliberal loyal servants of international capitalists is that legislation, like today, supports it with a great deal of vigilance, all of these pragmatic opponents, and indeed they advise you to be tougher, more memorable. Other times, other customs. It is for us, however, the transcript that ideologically, politically, morally you are births of the same womb both. And our superiority is fully confirmed, because we do not believe in liberalism, neither in the new nor in the old, nor in Marxism - two theories that afflict and torture the people for tens of years. All about money, all about matter, all about production, stock exchanges, capital. This is both Marxism and capitalism, the so-called free market economy. The drafting of this law is the assumption of your overriding failure in the economic sector. Even with a simple reading, anyone who realizes that this piece of legislation is nothing but a vague conception of marxist perceptions and ideas, which exist in the minds of the rulers and are simply aimed at deceiving the people once again, trying to apologize to your party audience for your complete mutation. Trying to draw some traces from the oblivion of the past - so to say - collecting the cologne so that you can offer your deceited audience an illusion of socialism. Of course, there are other voices in this Chamber from SYRIZA. Let me refer to the name of Mr Sevastakis, who is here, so I can refer to him last week in an interview with him 'In the red' - because we are also listening to the radio station 'In the red' - he said this. You said, Mr Sevastakis, that you met at the supermarket people who support SYRIZA and said: "We came here to shop for some things" and entered through the NGOs accompanied by fifteen - twenty immigrants and loaded the carts. In fact, you said you were told that 'he screwed them up'. You used that expression.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u21	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u22	You said it last Thursday. I'll get you a soundproof, listen to it. You said something else very important, that we need to see what is going to happen with these refugees or these immigrants, who have been deported, because they are dangerous, living in other societies some of them and strongly aggressive. You have to - you have said features - categorize them. That's a truth, too. So let us go to the bill, and I will tell you that that is why you are characterizing as social and solidarity economy operators, such as social, cooperatives, social cooperatives, limited liability cooperatives, workers' cooperatives, etc. All of these bodies at secondary level will create a new social economy fund, which will deprive funds from state funds and attempt in a framework of vague and cloudy, without specific objectives and responsibilities, and will lead with mathematical accuracy to the dispersion - what else? - the public money, the increase of bureaucracy and the improvement of some of them. You are constantly talking about a stable and favourable environment. What, anyway, is this favourable and stable environment? Are you implying that the valuation of goods? Watch out, don't get yourself misunderstood. These are measures of other times that have benefited the Greek people. What are the famous sectors of economic activity in which this project is supposed to be implemented? Who will be able to participate and who will not? What activities can be considered to be productive self-management operations and what not? What do you consider collective, social entrepreneurship and what not? What will be the dividing lines and the limits between what is stated in this draft law with the real economy, entrepreneurship, trade and the free market? How will it be ensured that there will be no adverse effects on professional, commercial and productive sectors, which are the foundations of our Greek economy? New and ambiguous legal concepts which are capable of multiple interpretations, it goes without saying that they will create additional problems from what they are supposed to solve, while the absence of a clear framework and rules can open the way to foreign-purpose activities, which it declares to be seeking the draft law in question. What you want to achieve is the so-called self-determination of products by the producer of consumption without intermediaries, but without control, without any evidence and of course no guarantee of both origin and quality of products and with prices close to the people, because this has so far been the case in previous years. Here I describe what was done at the level of speculative speculation by those who were only producers who were not, unfairly competing with the organised companies or the supply of similar products, and assisted by mayors - remember that - who suddenly felt the need to show a social person without seriousness, but also with a large dose of populism. This is the most serious reason why the'relevant' revolution was degenerated early. Nowadays, you are using other conditions such as social and solidarity economy, equal forms of organisation, participatory forms, complementary forms, autonomous organisation, ecological reconstruction, endogenous development, etc. and so on - let me express - arrogant barbies, which highlight your ideological confusion, which, of course, is the result of your mutation. Our suggestion is that you recommend to your executives, ministers and party ostrichs every time you attend polyethnic ceremonies, whenever you inaugurate a branch of a multinational or large supermarket, that you do not forget to play in the loudspeakers: "The cod and the middlemen", that is to say, so that you do not forget each other. But it is such that you are discouraged, that you promise a social and a solidarity economy, when with lies and deception you have destroyed the national economy itself. But let us first see what is not a social and a solidarity economy. It is not the closure of businesses or the extermination of over-taxation. Social and solidarity economy is not the disappearance of domestic primary and secondary production. The social and solidarity economy is not the exodus of hundreds of thousands of young people in unemployment and immigration. It is not the conversion of pensions and salaries into hunger allowances. The creation of new public bodies, committees and bodies, as provided for in this bill, cannot be regarded as a social and solidarity economy, with only the aim of archipelagos and state-owned parts of dogs. A National Economy Committee is set up, which will be irrelevant. Who will take part in this committee? The Minister of Labour, the President of ELSTAT, the commander of OAED, representatives of the CEDEFOP and other bodies, and will discuss what? The nonexistent collective agreements? Will they talk about small and medium-sized enterprises? For the unemployed and the candidates self-help? Will you finally tell us whether the meetings of this committee will be paid? Let us see, then, what they will cost the Greek people and public funds on the basis of the official figures of the State and the reports of the General Accountancy: EUR 72 000 for the establishment of two Secretary-General posts, EUR 116,000 for the remuneration of specialist advisers and associates, EUR 412,000 for twenty-four staff seats in various categories, EUR 32 000 for the payment of a liability allowance to heads, EUR 30,000 for operating expenses, namely, EUR 662 000 per year, without taking account of the possibility offered by Article 44(3) to the Special Secretary for Social Integration of the Ethiopians to form groups - listen, listen! - work involving individuals, of course, the amount of which, as indicated in the reports concerned, depends on facts. Pull over now! Private working groups: Outraged case of the splitting up of public money in favour of the ombudsmen. However, even more outrageous and suspicious, it is the fact that it is not specified in this provision that those individuals will be or on the basis of which criteria they will be chosen or what their remuneration will be, since it is shown from the text of the draft, and from the relevant reports that they will not be volunteers. Entities of social economy can be outside cooperatives and non-profit organisations of civil society any other legal personality, i.e. this means that it can be any state-owned company, state-owned organisations, municipal agencies and any private limited company, homogeneous company, surnamed company and others. So the following question arises: If anyone can describe himself as a social undertaking, why is a new law needed, since any public or private company, an anonymous company, can do charity, social benefit, corporate social responsibility, in order to get rid of taxation? The answer is simple: it is the pillaging of the European Social Fund. So far this looting has been done with incomplete legal cover. Now he'll also have legal cover. With the new law, it will have full legality so that the resources earmarked by the European Union for social cooperatives and non-profit organisations in society can go unnecessarily to private interests and to state. Even if well-trusted, ladies and gentlemen, someone thought that the purpose of this draft law was indeed to develop citizens' economic activities, with the aim of improving their production and living standards, it is obvious that this is impossible to happen, since all the indicators of real economy go from bad to worse and are absent from any prospect of growth and recovery. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. Real social and solidarity national economies can only exist for Greek citizens when national self-sufficiency is achieved in the strategic sectors of primary production, industry and energy. This requires, however, the proper exploitation and exploitation of all the wealthy sources of the country and public property, in the exercise of genuinely independent and self-government government, free from foreign dependencies and solely with the aim of serving national interests. Only then can the objectives which the government is supposed to pursue in the draft law being passed be achieved. And for this to happen, ladies and gentlemen, the only guarantee is national and social governance of the country by the popular nationalist movement of the Golden Dawn. We are voting against the draft law as a whole. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. Mr Sevastakis has asked for the floor. On what subject, Mr. Sevastaki?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u24	I would like to take the floor on staff because there has been a completely deforming and distorting reference to an interview with my colleague 'In red'. I think it is completely falsifying what I am saying, which is available on the web, if anyone needs to overthrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u25	Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u26	In an attempt to analyse the phenomenon of racism and extreme right-wing extremism in Greek society, I mentioned incidents, illustrations, accounts of simple people - because we have the honour to have contact with ordinary people - who raise various causes which incriminate the refugee in relation to their poverty, their financial weakness, and of course I connect the image and the way in which citizens experience them with specific political forces. They cultivate an anti-psychic stud, trying to illustrate and collect all forms of social discomfort in a selfish way. That was my report, it had nothing to do with what my colleague said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u27	I was covered by Mr. Sevastakis, and thank you very much. You covered me, Mr. Sevastaki. You said what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u28	Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, before I enter the bill, to make a reference to a broader issue that touches about a million thousand pensioners, of which the three hundred ninety thousand will lose the EAS - are the low pensioners - and too many people who have worked for too many years will see their supplementary pension falling by up to 40% or even 50%, while if the destructive zero-pay clause in Hardouvel's mail was applied, that reduction would be 7%. We are all aware that disastrous management with the baroque negotiation, the capital control and the turn to the recession and everything that followed either little or no more has also cost insurance a sum of EUR 2.3 billion, while the budget, ladies and gentlemen, which we will shortly be called upon to vote against - we will vote against - is EUR 780 million additional cuts in 2017, in which the low-retireees are. Why do I report all this? For I will table, Minister, and I would ask that the signatory, Mr Katrugalos, also take one of the hundreds of thousands of letters taken by pensioners in their hands by means of public money, through ELTA, to make Mr Katrugalos party propaganda. Because that is what this is all about, ladies and gentlemen. It's a disgrace! I shall read the opening paragraph of the Minister who finds lies and propaganda. We know, they say it in media, they say it in here, the Prime Minister from ID said 90% of retired people wouldn't be cut off. But they use the ELTA mechanism and state money to make terrible party propaganda. I'll sample this letter from a high pensioner. Imagine the low-pensionist who's cut off his ESS! He, of course, will not receive a letter or receive another letter. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't even talk, let me testify. It's bothering you! I read: "When our government took over the deficits of the insurance system with the "hidden" debts, they were so great that they jeopardised its survival, the possibility of giving pensions. Not only in the next generation, but also in you themselves', and he continues to sign and sign: Minister Karugalos. [[At this point the honourable Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is authoritarianism, that is the ownership of the public money and the ELTA mechanism, for the same party benefit. But, of course, what would anyone expect from a government that thinks that it is the final judge and the only judge of everything? What would anyone expect from a government that has brought a law that wants to fully control media, abolish the PSE in respect of this competence and determine the number of channels alone? What would anyone expect from a government which, while the Council of State is in progress, leaks double criminal elements? It is dual penalized by what has been done and why the confidentiality of communications, the constitutionally guaranteed, violates and, of course, violates the question of personal data is being violated in order to blackmail judges. Furthermore, the Minister of this government, Mr Paradoxopoulos, has not told us what he said, because as a criminalist he knows very well that this evidence cannot be provided. It's unconstitutional. It's fascinating what's going on. And the Minister, Mr. Paraskevi, comes out and refers to the disciplinary procedure of the judges, the judge of the Council of State, saying what? That I have other evidence. So blackmail suffers, and lawlessness suffers. Which Left are we talking about? The one that has on the one hand the main pillar of the Karamanlis government, Mr. Papagelopoulos and Mr. Kammenos? What Left? Once the Left said that it was defending - because the Left has defended it along with the Democratic Order - the democratic rights of citizens. Where are we now? It is a pity, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great pity that all of this is being done and abstracting the image of a positive initiative taken by the government. Because we won't be like you. Why did you go up to power by telling everyone everything and zeroing everything. I, therefore, will give the Minister a public congratulations here, because she is one of the few ministers of the SYRIZA who not only brought a law, but she explained that with this bill we are debating today - as incorrectly, not possibly on its own responsibility for the first time - we are going to go to a law on the social economy and social enterprises. For the first time. In her honour, however, she mentioned the law that she created and laid foundations in the social economy, the law that I have of course said to her in committee, and I tell her today, SYRIZA had voted against after abomination, but that is a past. Let us go to the present and hope that at least in this small part we can agree. We can agree, Minister, and we will vote - and we have already said so by the committee - on the basis of the bill, even though we disagree with other articles which I shall mention today and tomorrow. The social economy, therefore, started to be much more essential, to be institutionalised and to have an ambition to bring about a result between state action and purely private speculative activity. It was initiated by Law 4019 in knowledge that 10% of GDP in Europe also represented these businesses. This piece of legislation was a very important initiative and a start. They are today, ladies and gentlemen, about a thousand two hundred social enterprises in the register, of which over a thousand are active and active. We have eighty-eighty collaborative and productive enterprises, we have ninety-five social care enterprises, thirty-five integration companies and seventeen CORINSEPs. These results are not enough. We have also heard in the debate of operators, and in particular examples have come to businesses and have taken their experience. Today's bill is trying to improve existing legislation. From the point of view of the Officerate, however, I have heard Mrs Vulture mention a lack of staff. But here, I would like to remind you of the great effort we have made at that time - and Mr Kegeroglu, who is in the Chamber, made it possible to convince Mr Brutsis of the need for the social economy, because it took us a long time. Even today I am pleased that they are voting on it, but that does not mean that they did not bring in a thousand stumbling blocks until they were finally convinced. And that is one truth that also needs to be tabled, because we, as I said, neither do we nor do we look at or do we want to purify ourselves, first of all. So I keep going. As I said, Minister, the effort from you, and from all of us, to make the framework much better. I am going to refer to our own proposals that you have accepted, and I look forward to the articles, because you have tabled legislative improvements which we will be considering. I shall refer to specific proposals of our own. Before, however, I do, Mr President, and Mr President-in-Office, which you are listening to us and presided over, I would like to raise a matter which clearly concerns the parliamentary procedure and the government. What is being done in this bill is done very little. But when it really is, time is not given. Unfortunately, today we have taken the legislative improvements. I didn't even have the time to study them. I tried to run them, I saw them in titles, but there are too many of them. I do not want to lie to you, but to praise you for that, because it is precisely our proposals, proposals from other parties, proposals from the institutions. But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill could be discussed next week so that we can have better legislation and not have - because there are innocent amendments, not only the wicked amendments - the need to go after a week to an amendment because we have missed something. Because we're all people, and the government and the MPs. The best intentions for us to have will not be to legislate well. So I put this in the debate and say the following. First of all, with regard to the armouring of voluntary work - because we want these social enterprises to be involved by the volunteers - we believe that, when the two spaces, the area of volunteering and the area of social business, one area can be taken from the other. We therefore believe that the post of "ERGANI", the immunization of further by delimiting the time of voluntary participation, as we would suggest, if there were any improvements in this legislative process, Minister, we will accept them. Also, with regard to the issue of the programming agreements which were an empty of the previous law, regarding the absence of a competitive procedure, it seems from what the Minister has told us - I would like to see it - that the government has listened to our proposal and to the proposals of others and that it specialises in the procedure of criteria so that we can clearly see who and why it concludes a programme contract, with which criteria and with which transparent procedure. Thirdly, with regard to property and their concession, we still want to see what is going to happen with our proposals to shield this process as well. Because real estate is not in itself opposed, but it is certain that we must have the specific procedures for transparency, so that no other type of arrangements are made in the name of social business and social policy. I'm sure you'll see. And I say again that after seeing them today and in the light of tomorrow's procedure, Minister, if necessary, we will table opinions or improvements to what you have given us today. I would also like to mention a point of the bill in which the Democratic Independence expresses its disagreement and strongly criticises the Government for this: the creation of two special letters. I have heard - and I believe what I have heard - from both the ministers who have spoken, on the Roma Social Integration Secretariat and on the Social Economy Secretariat, that there will be no extra staff and that will not be deprived of any recruitment - to see why we do not see them - in health or wherever we have a great need. However, I ask you: Since we will not be recruited, why do you have the skilled staff and get it through distractions, can you not bring it or move it - if you are going - into your ministry and make an action team, a project management team? The legislative work provides for that. Improve the eagle further. Project management team. There are tools in public administration. We don't have to raise the state. Can I tell you something else? I could think, by listening to you, Mrs Antonopoulou, of this special secretariat you say, if it were not the case: your Ministry in this regard - and that is what you are doing in Coron, we did it and it is something that must be stopped - when it has a rich potential - I have a large number of leading chairs, that is to say, it has four ministers, Deputy Minister, Deputy Minister, Minister, and so four ministerial posts - have already four secretariats - and that is where you have multiplied the state, because that is what you are doing - it is by nothing to make two more special secretariats. You have a Minister - here it is, present - qualified and it is within its competence. You have another Minister, who is not at the moment, to have the responsibilities of the Roma. We don't have to load the state where it can't be loaded. Education, health, insurance is where we need to donate and prioritise, not again with time-consuming structures. I close by saying that in this whole process in which we participated as a Democratic Integration, we tried to bring improvements and proposals. We are pleased that at least some of them - not to say most - are accepted by the Minister. So without prejudice to the articles I have said that we are seeing them in principle negative and in practice what you have tabled, we are voting in favour of the principle of the draft law and we are looking back on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-seven students and apprentices and two educational escorts from the 2nd Grade School of Thracedon. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Katsotis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law entitled ‘Social and solidarity economics and development of its entities and other provisions’ defines as such the COMPAs, the cooperatives of workers, the agricultural cooperatives, the civil cooperatives, the associations of persons, as well as any other diligent legal person or association of persons under the conditions laid down in its articles. The first part, with the six chapters and thirty-six articles, provides for the setting-up and operation of the Social Cooperatives, the COMES, namely, of the workers' cooperatives, defines the resources and incentives, as well as support measures such as the establishment of a Social Economy Fund, the setting-up of a National Committee, a Coordinating Committee. It also provides for the participation of social solidarity bodies in programming contracts with public or public sector bodies and TAs (a) and (b). The second part, with its two chapters and fourteen articles, provides for the establishment of a Social and Solidarity Secretariat, as well as the establishment of a Roma Special Secretariat, their structure, their function and the appointment of Special Secretaries. Chapter III of Part Two, with its four articles, provides for the use of the real estate of the social security institutions, the search for disability pensions, if the CEPOL determines the applicants as non-beneficiaries of a pension disability rate, the organisational aspects of the Ministry of Labour, the clearance of outstanding liabilities to the EEAS, the adjustment of age limits to provisions, in accordance with the new increased thresholds of the Katrugalo Law. In Part Three, the seven articles deal with OAED issues, mainly the provocative regulation on subsidising hotel workers for an increase in the season. We will deal in particular with the two sides concerned with the social and solidarity economy. The SYRIZA Government - ANEL is moving into the same strategy of the European Union and capital, has the same roadmap for the way out of the crisis that the previous governments have had. Its programme is the implementation of the Memorandums. It has owned not only the third Memorandum, but both of the previous ones, since they literally implement all the provisions of that Memorandum. It implements the choices of capital against the lives of workers and the people. These options are not other than the constant reductions in pensions, wages, health expenditure, education, welfare, social benefits, large-time work, the abolition of all working rights, the creation of a job jungle. As a result of the policy to save capital, it is the pooring of a large proportion of the people. The attack isn't over yet. The war continues with new measures, which now concern the second assessment, such as new wage reductions, collective redundancies, overthrows in collective labour agreements, trade union law and so on. Then there will be other measures on the basis of the debt settlement that has already been promoted. And finally, of course, it won't exist all along. In the face of the draft law prepared by the government for labour, we hear new words, such as subordinate wages. Really, what does that mean? What is it with? Isn't it equivalent to a subordinate life? All of these things that you have legislated and supported all parties other than the JRC, do not lead to a loss of workers, the people, to ensure the friendly environment for investors, the exploiters, namely, with cheap labour, with increased and guaranteed profits for them? Unemployment continues to be very high. Poverty and impoverishment are spreading. Basic social needs remain unsatisfactory. The government is facing this steep situation with measures - crumbs for the humanitarian crisis, where the poor pay for the poorest. Now it adds the social and solidarity economy plan. Prime Minister at the SYRIZA conference dedicated an important part of his speech to the draft law. He claimed that the government creates a parallel and competitive system of cooperative production and exchange that operates not with a basic goal of profit but with work. What didn't the Prime Minister say? That this sector is developed in the direction of capitalist institutions, such as the OECD and the European Union, which, through its decisions, strengthens and finances the development of social and solidarity economies. He did not say that the processing of the European Union is the basis on which the social economy framework is promoted in each Member State, as is reflected in this draft law. He did not say that the OECD and the European Union, as main capital support mechanisms, promote the social economy, which not only does not reverse the ironic law of capitalism, which is profit-making, but also strengthens the objectives of competitiveness, strengthens the sovereignty of monopolistic groups. What is, in fact, the definition of the European Union's social economy? It is, as it says, a combination of the social objective and the profitability of capital. The European Parliament in its decision underlines that the social economy plays an essential role in the European economy by combining profitability with solidarity. The draft law on the social economy is part of the guidelines of the Europe 2020 strategy and is promoted with the corresponding financial instruments. The social economy is a key lever for privatisation and delivery to the capital of social services covered by the State. Social needs, which were covered by the State, are transferred to the workers' backs, which should pay dearly. The role of the state will be to finance the companies that will undertake these social benefits, with the aim of substantiating the needs of the poorest, the impoverished groups of the population, who will not be able to buy these services. We have been through this period very intensely with social doctorates, pharmacies, grocery stores, guesthouses and others that have erupted throughout the country from various bodies, but mainly municipalities and NGOs. You know, for many years now, various activities financed by the European Union have been growing up with such characteristics. Various experts, who state socially sensitive, with alternative and innovative solutions supposedly, rock funds by offering services for the environment, the elderly, the children, the needy, the insurers, for other vulnerable groups, etc. Priorities in this line are the various NGOs, which are financed insurmountably from various European Union funds. They opened the way, contributing to overthrows pursued by the system with its governments, on many aspects of the social services provided by the state. The Government has already tried to convince the public schools' cleaners to do COMPAs by exempting the state budget from their payroll and their insurance, and to sign concessions from the municipalities at an unknown price if they are going to cover the amount they receive today. The same will be done for the cleaning of hospitals and other public services. There is one amendment that came here today for individual contracts up to twenty-four months. And then we'll see! Maybe they'll go to SOCIETY too. It appears that there is a lot of scope for a number of services to COME by further reducing State costs. These days are the news of the end of the programme of the various social structures, in which several of those who became poor are the ones who have become impoverished because of your policies. And we're talking about another eight hundred thousand at this time, bringing the figure up from 28.1% in 2008 to 35.7% in 2015. This is the result of the policies that have been implemented so far by all governments. Employees with the end of the program are fired. The government is talking about rationalising all these structures and launching another programme, which will, of course, have fewer workers and obviously fewer benefitees, since the main direction is to support those who are at and below the level of the social solidarity allowance. It is no coincidence that the state budget is constantly falling for all these services. The reduction in these costs is exploited by governments for new tax reliefs, for large-capital subsidies. He's the donor for capital. And the Prime Minister showed his full support. The system, particularly in times of crisis, seeks, apart from repression, other ways of integrating the people. The chapter assigned this task with greater confidence to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, because they considered it more capable of misleading the people. They promote objectives of the chapter with left wrapping. In this context, the concept of fair growth is projected, the positive change being made by SYRIZA in the European Union, the European acquis and so forth that aim to tolerance, anticipation and much more to militate against people's forces in the strategy of capital. The government inside and from this draft law gives the capital and business content which they cannot have, by their very nature, in social terms. The content of the capital's action is the deep exploitation of the working class, of the other people's strata, the impeccable competition leading to wars, death, refugee and migration of millions of people. That is the content of the action of the chapter. The social economy is exploited by the system and mechanisms it has as yet another tool for class cooperation, depriving itself of the barbaric system of capitalism itself, presenting a new gold section that very quickly subjugates the profitability of capital in the service of social needs and people and highlighting an alternative proposal between state, social and private benefits, an alternative on a more cooperative, collaborative and social basis. The government is trying to convince that the social economy sector gives the opportunity for better, more democratic entrepreneurship that will act with social responsibility and ensure that quality jobs are created. The synonym of entrepreneurship is the exploitation, whether it is done by authoritarian or democratic means. With the development of the COMPs and the other social economy actors, a new major category is actually being created. The majority of them will be rewarded with hunger wages - perhaps occasionally - and will certainly not be recorded for the unemployed. The experience of many young people and young people who happened to fall into the hands of diligents is very great. As young people say, one or two put the money and the others who have nothing to give, they put endless hours of work. But they, too, have a collaborative portion! From the so-called convention - which exists only on paper - the president comes out of the money put to the COMECF. Some of them don't take a long time. But that's democratic, because they're talking about it. Also, they may take 20% of the money, as we're told, until the money is amortized, which is usually the president of the COMPA. They also organize a bazaar or some event or party, and in the account it is presented as a social activity. These workers, while not changing their class position, will be classified as micro-enterprises. Easier, of course, they will be integrated into the system. The social economy is coming to meet the objective of increasing employability, including vulnerable groups, special groups and, of course, according to the legal improvement of the young people now under the age of twenty-five, who will be in favour of a subordinate wage. Voluntary work is also promoted in the context of social enterprises and, in the event of an accident, in the event of an accident, in the provision of free work and, without the social undertaking being obliged to cover the costs of rehabilitation. What you removed, Minister, from the draft law, is shame, is a challenge! There is also provision for setting up and operating social economy enterprises by cooperative workers or unemployed persons. The main concern is workers from bankrupt enterprises who did not withstand the crisis or workers from businesses who closed them down, because they did not guarantee the profit they wanted. The government, as a capacity-building opposition, passed through BIOME and other closed factories that committed themselves to self-management, with support from funds for the social economy. Most VIOME workers, despite the solidarity they have experienced, exploiting the exploitation by various technicians, who, in order to mislead the world, also have a virtual opening-up of the factory, understood very well what self-management of capitalism, since they are in a very bad position since the evolution of this project. The term'social economy', like the content of the term, is completely unscientific and disorientative. The public and private sectors in capitalism serve the same needs, the needs of expanded reproduction of capital. Capital is a social relationship. His action and control are not about the separate company, but about the entire capitalist economy. In fact, every business that acts within capitalism serves the profitability of capital. The only way out to satisfy people's needs is to socialise all the concentrated means of production, develop them with scientific centralized design and labour control. This presupposes overthrowing of the political power of capital, presupposes popular power, which is the only one that will lead society to real prosperity. Only then are hunger, poverty and shortages in maintenance facilities, safe housing, unemployment and the balance of wage earners being eliminated. The interest of workers is to fight against the incorporation that is being attempted and by this law on the social economy in the exploitation system that rotates and dies, to organise their struggles to overthrow them and build the new society in a new form of organization of the economy. The JRC is voting in favour of the principle. We will talk about the articles and the amendments tomorrow. We ask you to accept the amendment we tabled on heating oil so that heavy winters can be dealt with by the people. We also call on the Government to bring to Parliament the draft of the trade unions, which the JRC has already tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u32	Mr Constantine Barriotas, the rapporteur for the River, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on this bill - and I would like to start with it, to start with something positive - has indeed been an oasis of a parliamentary procedure, as there has also been a sincere exchange of views between the government and the opposition, and many comments made by the opposition parties have been made by the Minister. And that is a good point that needs to be said because it is not common, it is unfortunately not the rule and I fear very much that it is inconsistent with the political context and with general political relations. I have to start from this, from politics, that is, from time to time, since it is dominated - and it cannot remain a problem - by the fact that the Council of State decided that it should go ahead with examining the constitutionality of the channel law in a climate that is truly unprecedented. The process of continuous corrosion of institutions by the individual government with micropolitical and temporary obstacles is an old process. That government didn't find out. It is one of the basic, in my opinion, pathogens of the Greek political system that led to the crisis. But the enlargement and acceleration of this erosion with the continuous sabotage of the functioning of the institutions are something that has now begun to take very, very large proportions. I have to agree with Mr Venizelos, who said yesterday, 'Below the hands of the institutions'. It's really very important. We have learned for the first time not only who is the president of the Council of State, its supposed political preferences and its political connections, but we are now starting to learn the secrets of the maid's bedroom. SYRIZA's colleagues, who are not here unfortunately, a newspaper, which has been once with you for many years and with many of us fighting against yellowism since yesterday, has had a vomit yellow and pink color. I think that all of us must condemn yellowism and ignorance, which was the day before yesterday, unequivocally. With evidence that has been intercepted, people are accused of matters that have nothing to do with public life. That's unprecedented. These conditions have never been observed in Greece and in the largest and most serious institution, the Council of State, which in recent years had largely sought to protect. It is something that we all have to condemn. The institutions and their functioning are a basic rule and a basic condition for the exercise of democracy. Without them we will soon slip into situations that no one wants to think about. I'm going back to the bill. As I have said many times, the attitude of all of us towards the bill - and the Officerial Opposition and other parties - was positive, as we all see the social and solidarity economy with a positive eye. We are talking about the third pole, a pole clearly distinct from the public and private economy, with characteristics differently. Unfortunately, however, we are even talking today about a law which changes by 30%, with the positive inclusion of many comments. I've got them on the bench. This is nineteen pages. It needs a comparison with the previous text. I have to say that I have not been able to read them and that it is very difficult for me and my colleagues to analyse them until tomorrow in their proper manner and intensity. I said yesterday that there was no reason for this bill to be suffocated as it turned. Mrs Christophilopoulou said earlier - and I agree - that perhaps, Minister, you should seriously see the postponement of tomorrow's sitting next week. I don't think anything changes for two, three days. There's a good mood. And there is a need to postpone not only for the nineteen pages of amendments that you have made and which we first see positive, but I do not know exactly what they are, but there are amendments which are unlikely. Mr Paulakis tabled an amendment of twenty-pages for the call for positions with fixed-term contracts, which concerns a few thousand people and a few hundred million people. But it's not just about reading the twenty pages and seeing what it creates. It's mainly the fact that you need to talk to both those bodies and people, as some who are already working, will lose their place and others will be hired. We cannot go through such important and serious issues in one and a half days, without having good time to read them. I wanted to ask SYRIZA's colleagues whether they will be able to read the changes or whether they will be able to read the amendments. But I think they're all somewhere and they're already reading them, since there's no one in the Chamber. It also has its value, because I understand it the indifference of a parliamentary group that votes for everything. We have also seen it in committee. There were only one or two important and serious interventions by the Members of this House in the Committee on Social Affairs. I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that you are able to go through everything as an amendment. Even the restoration of the kingdom you are able to go into an amendment, as long as it has to pass quickly and without debate. But we, and your Minister, have all the good will to discuss, deal with and find solutions and improve the bill. Give us the time. There are a number of articles that change, which we need to see and discuss. This has not been discussed, and I do not understand why. No one's after us, really. There are serious issues that we can discuss and we need to discuss them. As I was saying, we're talking about the third pole to get back to the point. What's the third point of the economy? Why do we want him? Is this an ideological matter? Mr Katsugalos told us, who is a communist peace in a manner which he himself has said - do not look at me, Mr Katsotis, he did not say it because you looked at me the wrong way - and he told us yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs that it was the first step in the process of transition. So, is that an ideological reason? Is it because we have ideologically a match in a certain way of economy? Or, in fact, since it works throughout western Europe as well as successfully in countries which do not think about transition procedures to socialism, it is an outlet for a whole range of people who are or feel excluded because of unemployment, lack of capital or because of special needs, etc.Huh? I say it's the second one. So, if that is the case, the first question one should put is, by making this polo, how can I be able to attract people who want to benefit, who might want to do so, to do so, to do a COMMUNICA or a KOSPA, rather than start a profession, to open a store in the classic way, or to set up an EIA or any other form? Will one do so for ideological reasons, as we have said, because it believes in democracy, equality and the production of wealth without profit? Possibly. But a majority will or will try to do so if it feels motivated and has an interest in being able to stand in society and move forward. So the question is why these people will come. What kind of environment do you have to create to bring these people, who are supposed to be the main target, in addition to the NSRP scientists who always find a way to get into these processes and suck the funds? Does this law favour startups, those who have no funds and want to start a good idea? Would they prefer that form? Does he really give a long-term entrepreneurship window? The country, incidentally, has been filled with traditional grocery stores and coffee, which are subsidized and which remain open until the NRP is taken, subsidisation and closure. Is that what we want to do with the COMIPs? That was the standard so far. That's how the previous law failed. It failed because COMMON were created which were the objective of subsidisation and were then inactivated or closed because they had no other interest or considered that the proceedings initiated had no productive interest nor the possibility to stand in terms of a real economy. So, not only before law, but I am also very afraid of him as one point, he has not helped, he has not promoted the idea, the perception of the third pole and the alternative solidarity of the economy, but he has actually defuded him, because he has been subjected to a process that is full of scandals and scandals, filled with dark zones and full of programming agreements, that is, direct project assignments from OTA, regions and public works, in ways known and which have long been haunted by all, even those who have written the previous law. So basically, with the exception of KOSPEs coming from elsewhere, from psychiatric reform and having a different institutional framework, very few things were done by the previous law, because either the mechanisms for recovering damages - subsidies from the NSRP were created or there were 'beneficiaries' of programme contracts before the NSRF was created. If, then, we want the social and solidarity economy to walk, the key element to be the healthy entrepreneurship, ideas that can work and the environment, which will allow these companies or cooperatives from the day after the aid they receive in the first way and the incentives at first, to have long-term life and why not to grow, to increase their jobs and their turnover. This must be the aim: to create a healthy business ecosystem, not a mechanism that will take the money from Europe. We've seen this since the time of the priests training seminars. We need to stop this culture sometime, change it. So the three basics are that we need mainly transparency - secondary control - to combat bureaucracy and centralisation, to strengthen people who want to start such procedures and incentives economically, insurance and labour costs. We need to see it again and again. At last I can't stand it, I'm going to tremble. After you've taken so much money from the channels, give some here, since they're abundant for everything. This whole story suffers there, in incentives, not only for stabilisation, but also for increasing and increasing the life cycle, turnover and jobs. If we really want to develop the sector, cooperatives must live, stabilise and grow. The logic of the bill has often escaped from the counter-incentives, I must confess. That provision on the distribution of profits was withdrawn, but it was characteristic. In a cooperative that will probably start with damage or with very big problems, the first thing we went to put was to get 10% to 30% of profits and give it for beneficial purposes. Why don't I open an AU? Why not start a profession, since I will also have the profit in my pocket and possibly the reward I get from my job? He doesn't stand like that. It's extremely difficult. There is also a need for periods of grace that can be exploited for the first few years, tax exemptions, those given in the strict financial framework - no one is ignoring it. And the fund is well to be created, but it remains how and with what money. Positive is the special account. We can see it. I hope it will move on quickly and they need good ideas. If the money is not enough from the channels, there are the taxes on sin that we can discuss, which part of them can go to the fund or to strengthen this economy. To sum up, the lack of liquidity, overtaxation, bureaucracy, tax advances, all that a company bears, is also the responsibility of the COMES with this law. It does not change anything in particular, and that is why the difficulty of starting entrepreneurship with it does not change, because it is the goal in the crisis, to make it easier for people who have no capital, access and opportunities to start working. This is not very easy, despite good efforts and good intentions. We have had a great debate in private with the Minister and I understand her concerns and the problem of public services and services objectively affecting the bad habit of SYRIZA, the government constantly recommending general secretariats. There are problems in public, and I understand the anxiety possibly. But in an environment in which it is the government's strategy to create new general and special secretaries everywhere, you can hardly get into the special debate about this ministry. Let us say a little outline - why don't I have a lot of time - what is the difference between setting up an address at a Ministry and a Secretary-General's post or a special secretary? The difference is that in the second case the head is a non-qualified party and not a notice. He's a man of every minister's absolute trust.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u34	They're being put on trust, and then you're complaining to the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u35	Sometimes, as Mr. Kegeroglu says, this doesn't work. We saw it happen in the Ministry of Labour by bad coincidence already yesterday and today. I'll let it go first, because the evidence is incomplete and I want to be very careful, Mr. Kegeroglu, before I say anything, but sometimes it doesn't work. I said the other day that this is a process that the management in the public sector reminds us of a retired colonel. That logic of trust goes back to the captain's secrets. It doesn't work that way. It can't work like that. You inherited it and made it worse while you should see a completely different logic in terms of bureaucracy and nepotism in public. I repeat, and I close it, that as much good a mood as anyone has for a special issue, I am afraid he cannot get into this process and I have explained why. Because it is a stable government tactic to create general secretariats. I cannot remember any bill in the Committee on Social Affairs that at least has one special or general secretariat. We're positive about the idea. Once again, we need time that we didn't have him and it's bad. Even at the very last moment, it would be a good thing to secure him. I will try until tomorrow, we will try to get to the party, to see all the improvements and all the amendments and to answer them. However, there is no reason to degrade Parliament's function and ourselves by trying to make sportes, which in the end do not need to be analysed. And time has come for such a bill and good mood. In any case, we will not look back at the principle. We shall vote 'yes' in principle. We will look after the articles until we analyse them. But we will certainly vote against some things. From the first moment on I challenge an answer. There is an article that was 51 and I very much fear that it has become 52, which concerns engineers, about social security institutions, who live in two ways. It provides that engineers who are civil servants of the social security institutions can assign themselves at a fee this afternoon to the maintenance of the social security institutions' buildings and also provides that the Minister may share social security institutions' buildings at best, free of charge. He's an unknown father. Who put it down? Will anyone tell us what logic is? I might be wrong. But is there any logic, or is it just nepotism? Because if that's the way it is, we can make a move of five MPs here to ask for a building. As I see Mr. Kegeroglu, he's willing. Will you give us or is it just for systolics?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u36	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u37	Mr Barriott, you have gone far beyond time and it is not time for another kind of dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u38	I will end in a minute, Mr President. That's why nobody got in position. I might be wrong. Take a seat. Explain what's going on with that. Because the Minister can share IKA's buildings. It's not the Ministry's. It's from IKA's, it's from the FBI by tomorrow. How can the Minister share public buildings? The amendments are too many. I want to make comments. You will only give me 30 seconds, Mr President. The transformation of project contracts into fixed-term contracts is at last the right process, since the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u39	Mr Barriotta, you will have the opportunity tomorrow in the debate on the articles. Finish, please. You have a problem with time management.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u40	But it is extremely problematic that it is the sixth legislative effort to correct a problem that Mr Paulakis himself has quickly and without method. The result is that many of the cleaners who left private companies to go on a public project contract will end up unemployed. Let's say things with their name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u41	Now it is the turn of Mr Papachristopoulos, rapporteur of the ANELs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. There is a spirit of consensus in the committees from all parties on this bill. It is something I really see very positive, and I would say that I have very little to say in relation to the bill only from what the New Democracy buyer said. He covered me almost 100% with his placement in this bill and I consider it positive. An issue that burns us too much is about eight articles, from 43 to 50, which concern the Roma. Whether or not he's in this bill is a different matter. But it is. It's a very big deal to me. Huge. These people are not even written in the registers. We don't have an exact number. We calculate up - down that it's about 300,000. I think that finally the establishment of a secretariat for these people was something that had to be done. We will agree with everyone that we sometimes establish secretaries so forth. But she doesn't. She's not for the show. It's got a real object. I'm telling you it's about 300,000. Other countries, such as Spain, which has 800,000, Slovakia and Hungary, which have a huge number, have made very much progress in integrating these people. I think it is a major issue - and I want it to be mentioned - that it is a part of Greek citizens who, whether we like it or not, live on the sidelines. And we know very well that room means infringing behaviour. In fact, many are rushing to say "but the race is like this" and so on. No, I don't accept that. In Spain, for example, 70% of children go to kindergartens and 100% go to school. How did they do it? I think we can, too. Here we have to show a basis and I am one of those who believe - I will say it again, I told the committees - that it does not fit into the Roma issue. This secretariat - I say it with a lot of love, Minister - must be over parties. To take care of with real effort, honest and clean, to incorporate this part that is very afflicted. We all know they live in the mud, in the tents, now that we're talking. At a time when the other guy is interested - I know - in Jacuzzi, they're in the mud, and so on. Beyond humanitarian, it's mostly in violation of the law. It's a big deal to see, and I'm just ringing the bell. I want to say about the bill that at the University of Carolinska, Sweden a couple of twenty-five years ago - when we were imagined unreal and said what they were, what these Swedish people said - they were then talking about a social economy, which Erlander and then Uluf Palme did. On the one hand, the absolute state that collapsed as a paper tower of Soviet democracies, which we know very well where they led them. We also lived in a dozen years' time, and we saw that these people, who were not the fault of nothing, have lived a nightmare for too many years. I'm sorry to say, that's the truth. And instead of sitting somewhere in the middle of finding a way, we got to the other end, where few people - eighty, eighty-two - arrived with extreme neoliberalism having assets as much as half of the world's poorest parts, i.e. 3.5 billion. Mercy! And now, the politicians, that is to say we are here, in many parliaments not to decide - I am sorry to say it - and to decide on others, those who have money, power. The word 'casino-economy' has played very much in recent years, the derivatives, the stock exchanges, the stocks - I know. So I think it is an incision, it is the third pole in the economy and it has begun to take flesh and bone - cowards - cowards, but it takes flesh and bone - in all developed countries both in Canada and Australia and in America - not to try to smoke it ideologically. It's a forced choice to get countries out of the deadlock. And the activities, that is, the turnover of this kind of economy, while it has started to touch 12% in other countries, are unfortunately below 1% in us. It's an incision, so we need to see it. And I was pleased because there really is consensus, at least in a large part of the opposition parties, and that is what we should welcome. In summary, I would like to remind you that it really does helps unemployment. We need it very much. We know they've gone over three hundred thousand youngsters because they can't find a job. Yeah, it could create a perspective for these kids. Secondly, some economists, engineers or other professions who have lost their jobs at a high age because their business has been closed, they have the potential through this bill - I am oversimplifying it, but I think we need to speak in a language that is understandable because people are listening to us - to rebuild these businesses and get back into the labour market. I don't want to go into details. I think they were analysed by the previous ones in a very nice and detailed way that I really enjoyed. However, because news cannot leave us unarmed and because I have heard too many comments, I cannot stand the temptation to recall that the frontal collision with the complexion is a marathon big, it has eruptions - they know the Marathon runners - and we are still in the middle, not to say even earlier. We'll live a lot of episodes until the country gets to its level. But I am surprised that a decision by the Council of State, which really needs to be respected, has begun to be triumphed by some. I would say that everything is judged according to the last outcome, so the Democrat said. To be patient, not to triumph. I would like to remind you that, recently, after the central banker's interpretation of the loans received by the parties, it is moving - and rightly so - a public prosecutor's directive on parties' loans. It is a steep shape to hear people triumphant about a decision by the CEEC, which is fair to me, at the same time that they have to give an explanation of the 410 million - so much the money - that the two parties borrowed and should explain how they will pay them back. If you want to be a gentleman and have some credibility, you're obligated to say, "Hey, you know, I don't have any, I want to make some adjustments," in any case, you can't shut it down. I would also like to remind you that, at the moment we are talking about, perhaps a very serious effort is being made, after we have finished with the first assessment, to finish quickly with the second assessment. I think it is a very important step. I also consider the situation created for public debt to be an important step forward. I would like to welcome the advent of the President of the United States in our country and, indeed, we have seen from the press how much he stood up to Mateo Reggie. And you know, Italy is a very powerful economy, much stronger than ours. I think it is a positive step and the juncture really creates a positive climate for the debt to enter the table. Nearly Draghi is waiting for this step to enter the quantum relaxation, which will ensure around 7.5 billion a year. I am saying all this because I would like to recall that this government's efforts are a marathon, a hard marathon. I don't know if the Prime Minister will attend. I hear on the news that he can come in this afternoon and talk, and he'll do well to do so. I think we have a lot of positive information right now about what is going to happen. And we all know that if these three steps are taken, we are struggling with fingernails and teeth against Shoeble - we also know that - against this man who would say that with an attitude of provincial MP, he is right to say: 'I have elections, gentlemen.' In other words, the interest of whole countries or the existence of Europe is related to whether or not to gain a x' class or not in Germany, which is unacceptable to me. I therefore think that this effort will be brought to an end. I am one of those who think I am honoured to be on this side, because many of these Members who have now entered Parliament have not entered to get rich, have come with very clear motives. I believe that sooner or later this side will be vindicated. The country needs to change. He's been living a plunder nightmare for the last 40 years. We saw it yesterday in the committee of inquiry and we saw who it was with. On the basis of this committee of inquiry, I believe, the Greek citizen has drawn terrible conclusions, at the same time as we see the midterm, nails and teeth - for something which is self-evident and should have been done for many years - to try to prevent this change in the country. I want to believe - and I believe it - that the country will return. We're right on our side, we're honest, we're moral. The moral advantage some are struggling to abolish it from this government. They won't make it. I'm one of those people I haven't denied that we've made mistakes, and we've been overreacting, and Ignorant of danger, we've had the wrong choices. In the assessment of misconduct, this is not the same thing by being caught “with the sprout on your back.” Forgive me for that expression, Alekos Papadopoulos first said, I'm not stealing it. It's two different offenses. And we must at the end - sacred obligation - the Greek citizen - because we have been handling forty years of looting - to know who led him and who reached him in this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u43	We are also grateful for Mr Papachristopoulos' time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Thursday 20 October 2016. A. PERSONS First-cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 101/17-10-2016 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Maria Triantafyllou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the completion of the work of Marina Mesology. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 94/14-10-2016 of the Greek MP, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the "provocative" mood of 5,4 cm. (i) EUR 1 million from national resources for the implementation of two (2) contracts for the updating of technical specifications. 3. The question asked by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the conduct of a thorough inquiry into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos. 4. The question by No 86/11-10-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Rural Development and Food on the problem of movements of valuers of ELGA, leading to the economic damage of the affected farmers. 5. The question by number 107/17-10-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, about the problem of disosmia in the Municipality of Cordelios - Evrosmos of the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. 6. The 88/12-10-2016 topical question by MP II of the Thessaloniki Potamio Mr. Catherine Markos to the Minister of Health, on the establishment of a child hospital in Thessaloniki. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 104/17-10-2016 by Congressman Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on the repayment of the inheritance tax by transferring property to the State. 8. The question by No. 106/17-10-2016 of the Athens MP of the Association of Centres Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the need to redesign the services of the "TRAINOSE" to cover the Peloponnese. B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 102/17-10-2016 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on measures to protect the health of residents and the environment, then two environmental incidents in western Thessaloniki. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. By number 95/14-10-2016, a topical question by the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy, K. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the delay in the implementation of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. 3. The Question No 100/14-10-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on "anothermal action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace". 4. The question asked by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleigh to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the valid payment of compensation to farmers in Serres County for their livestock affected by LSD. 5. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Sakis Bardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the hundreds of eighty (180) workers of the New Karval Fertilizers plant in the Regional Unit of Kavala who have been in racing mobilizations for five months. 6. The question by No 97/14-10-2016 of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the completion of hydroelectric projects in the Messochora Trigalos. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 105/17-10-2016 by Congressman of Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks George Lazarides to the Minister of Environment and Energy about the incomplete maintenance of the electricity distribution network (DEDHE) in southern Evia. 8. The Question No 91/13-10-2016 by MP A' Thessaloniki of the Association of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the approval of the medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLTH). 9. The Question No 56/10-10-2016 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the lack of teaching staff at the TEI of Athens. 10. Antonio Balomenakis, Member of Parliament, with number 54/10-10-2016, is a topical question to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the introduction of a framework for dealing with the uncontrolled expansion of the phenomenon "all inclusive" in tourism. 11. The Question No 55/10-10-2016 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of the Greek Open University. 12. Under the number 45/5-10-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Central Association of Central Banks Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health about the serious shortages of staff and funding at the National Rehabilitation Centre. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 11/3-10-2016 topical question by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the extension of the project project: "Support for SMEs active in the manufacturing, tourism, trade and services sectors". Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, sixty students and apprentices and three educational escorts from the Experimental Gymnasium of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur for the Central Association, Mr Theodora Megalonikou, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, in our home country all Greeks are going through a particularly difficult and dark time at all levels. In the years of the Memorandums, from 2009 until today, we have seen pensions cut tens of times, private and public wages collapse, private enterprises shut down one after another and finally over five hundred thousand Greeks, and, above all, scientists, abandoning the country to find a better life. Finally, after all this, it is time to make some drastic changes in the way we deal with social reality. And the truth is that, at European Union level for many years now, serious efforts have been made to consolidate itself alongside classical business actions and another form of social activity. I am, of course, referring to enterprises that have the purpose of profit and therefore are not classified in the NGOs, but at their core they bear the basic characteristics of social solidarity and contribution. These social enterprises already existed in Greece and are governed by Law 4019/2011. In fact, in the last years of the crisis, at least from the little experience I have, I see that the COMPAs have started and are expanding and are increasingly meeting them. Finally, I see that there is a necessary part of society, which is thirsty for supply, for work, for substantial mutual assistance, which is now beyond the limits of charity. This bill seems to me to be taking a step further. It redetermines the operation of this type of undertaking and, in fact, creates new legal forms within the same framework. First of all, I agree with the fact that I am more detailed and possibly more effective in regulating these companies. Our aim is to see real positive results in everyday life and with the dynamic activation of COMES in all forms, possibly, to help us in this direction. However, Minister, I have some points to object to individual arrangements in the bill. First of all, Article 4, new Article 5(4) provides for assistance to social and solidarity economic operators from local authorities. I would like to remind you, however, that in the committee responsible a few days ago the President of the Committee on Employment and Social Economy of the CEDEFOP stressed that practical problems arise in relation to the COMCOMs, because municipalities are unable to fully meet the requirements and require advisory support on economic and technical issues from the central state. Therefore, this provision is well, but still empty, unless there is substantial support for the municipalities and regions. Cities can't handle themselves. Then Article 10, which has become 11 now, stipulates that the funding of social and solidarity economic operators will primarily be made by the Social Economy Fund. This fund will be financed by the public investment budget and other sources of funding. With the 'other sources of funding' which are not mentioned in the bill, you do not give us anything specific, and in fact, in the explanatory memorandum again, you do not clarify it. It goes without saying that you leave a cloudy landscape, so every man and every citizen can understand it differently. You need to make it clear where the other sources of funding will be from. Point it out, he'll be one of them and these agencies. That's my opinion. Also, in Article 13, which became 14, it is laid down that vulnerable groups will participate by 30% in the COMMUNICATIONS. It's very right. These vulnerable groups include disabled people, drug-dependent problems and offenders. From the outset I thought - and I stressed it in committee too - that the rate is too small and I asked for a 40% increase. Indeed, at this point, he agreed, if you remember, and Mr Nastas, the Secretary-General of the ESDP, too. In fact, disabled people, as you know, have too low absorption on the labour market. At least 80% remain unemployed. Not to mention the releaseees, who in Greece after their release are marginalized and it is very difficult to reintegrate into society and return to illegality. COMMUNICATIONS are therefore a key tool for the social and professional integration of individuals from these groups. Indeed, Minister, you replied to the committee yesterday that 30% is set on the basis of the European directive. But I have looked, and I think I have found that the European directives ensure and ensure a minimum rate of protection. They think it's a minimum percentage. It is therefore up to the Member States to incorporate the regulations and, of course, to overcome, if they can, this minimum brought by the European Union. In fact, there are also two relevant European directives, 2014/24EU and 2014/25EU. They refer to Articles 20 and 38, respectively - and I should stress this - 'at least 30% of workers are disabled'. At least, not the limit. So, if what you are saying is not correct, that we are committed by the European Union to 30%, I am coming back and, at least, ask you to reconsider it on the increase of at least 40%. A majority of the ESCBs for the special groups are set out in the ESCB. If we can't get to 50% put at least over 30%. I think we have every right as a state to demarcate it ourselves. And I come back to one of the contentious points. I am referring to - I have said this many times before - the creation of two special letters, one on a social and solidarity economy and the second on the Roma. In fact, I criticised the government's choice to create two additional special secretariats and to increase the public's organic positions by charging the budget. Despite your strong efforts, Minister, to overthrow the negative attitude I have, I am not convinced that our country at the moment needs to extend the public sector. And according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, the state budget will be charged by EUR 622,000 and an additional EUR 45,000 required for the equipment of these two stamps. Without wanting to do now populism or micropolitics, I think it is too far gone. So, can we pretend and say that we do not increase the budget if we follow this example? I wish we were at the levels of Sweden, Germany and as many secretaries as we wanted. But it's enough we had to pay. When at this time when we are living cut off the ESS and the supplementary pensions, when the hospitals are struggling for essential machinery equipment and cancer patients are waiting for them to be radiotherapy and the families of many of them are alerted when they have already gone to St. Peter and have left life, when we read that the ambulances are out of service and there is no money to repair and risk the lives of the citizens, - has it happened that the ambulances are on fire together with the patient in and not know what the traumatists are doing, to save the patient, to save the ambulance, not to burn themselves? - I think a situation like this is too much. The pensioners who received the letter from Minister Katrugalou should be very pleased. I thought they'd consider her an invitation to get caught at Zaloggo's dance and start falling! Such an invitation would be wonderful. I think he sent them this letter to please them, to take hands - to go to Zaloggos' dance! I do not think that we are right at this time to tell the Greek taxpayer and citizen that we need another EUR 700,000 annually to create these two secretaries. We could mobilise, with distractions from the public sector, create adequate sections for basic needs. I do not think that a sound man would suggest making new secretaries, serving with new people, a burden on the budget, if he hadn't been looking for a new one, that is to say, for you to continue the policy of the two previous parties as well. But you were not elected by the people to pursue the same policy. He chose you twice, I believe, to change that. If it were to go on, let the previous ones stay. There's no excuse. For the extra jobs you have committed yourself, Minister, at least orally and you told us that people who serve in the public service will be sought before recruitment if they have the guarantees, of course, to be able to serve them. But you told us that orally. And the orals as we know, the wind takes them, they leave. I'd rather have it formulated in the bill, not oral. It's not that I don't believe you. I have the good intention of believing you. But we've seen too many announcements leave together. Words get wind, that's what my grandmother said. I've been reporting it very regularly lately and he'll see me from up there! I would like to make a quick report on the articles. First of all, I fully agree with the extension for a six-month period of each pension given to people who expect to pass by health committees for their disability rate. It is very right because they too are people, they have needs, a serious problem and they must continue to receive this pension. Then I come to Article 30, which has become 31, which concerns receiving the unemployment benefit for the free traders. We all know how bad the free professionals have been at the time of the memorandum, how many businesses have shut down and how many free professionals have left their professions. The free professionals paid - I know very well because I too am in favour of the OAED, but they were excluded from benefits. So it's a really right setup. Finally, I want to make a reference to Article 53 concerning the payment of outstanding debts by 2012 of the EEAS to various providers. The total amount - estimated by the Ministry - is about 450m euros, and a part is even concerned with the patients who have paid from their pockets. And it is unthinkable that it is due to such large amounts and not only to bodies but also to patients. But I think it would be more important to get away from the logic of the past. Instead of signing these conventions - which we cannot achieve - and making contracts and giving larger sums, it would be better for the contractor to know, so that cuts are not needed and suddenly bring him to the neck. I don't think that's right. The bill seems to me to lay the foundations for the creation of a living social fabric centred on man and his support in practice so that this man can stand on his feet and do not need charity. In this sense, disabled people and other people of vulnerable groups are at the heart of the whole philosophy of social cooperatives. I think that these more than anyone else should strengthen and support. Finally, it is right that we are pushing the right mechanisms to identify who these people are in these groups, to take them out of the oblivion that has been submerged and to bring them back to active action. And I think it is compulsory to increase the percentage of social cooperatives, so that we can integrate all these groups in the crisis as well, but they also have a completely different status than others who are not in the same situation as them. It must be the first step of this government. At the beginning of the bill we say yes. As far as the articles are concerned, we will check them and put them in plenary tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u45	Mr Urania Antonopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. I would like to make a few comments before we begin the next round. I have heard some very positive comments, such as the fact that we have come to discuss the law on the social economy today. There are many political issues. There is space and time to be discussed. There have already been several reports, which unfortunately cannot be avoided from discussing when they are put on the table. The wish of all of us, when the committee has finished, is that we want this debate to continue in the same good climate. Why do we want the debate to continue in the same good climate? For as far as matters that really touch the citizens and the future of our country, such as the debt, the refugee, the recovery of unemployment and the support of labour are concerned, these are issues which, regardless of which party each of us belongs and which political controversies there must be consistency. So here, as far as the social economy is concerned, we have found a common place, we have been able to come to an understanding. Nevertheless, we are now coming to discuss the law on the social economy, and we are tabling what is coming up for discussion. I think - and I would like to ask the representatives of all the parties for this - that we should make an effort to present the last observations, that we, too, can show to our people that there is a bright field for understanding, that we are putting the common good at least on certain issues, that we have a line that we will not overcome as political parties. To go now to the whole debate on what we have inherited, what we have changed, what we need to do to keep our country and people on their feet, if at the moment unemployment has fallen, if we are finally negotiating the debt we have won the 12.5 billion. I have written many times about this, as well as about the fact that an extension of 50 billion, that is, instead of being paid by 2001, is being repaid in thirty years. Aren't these benefits? Why aren't they recognized? So when, in opposition, none of this is recognized and we are entering a confrontation on issues that are 'voice', 'vigorous' that something has been done, then of course we come to a level of confrontation that does not help our citizens, it does not help our country. My request therefore lies in this. The world is tired - to understand it all - of hearing us deal with this confrontation between us. People want to know what we're doing and what we can do, what consents can be there so we can finally turn a page. But I want to come to more specific issues. Because I have heard a number of remarks - logically your remarks - about the creation of a special secretariat for the social economy, I would like to make it clear, because I imagine that we will also spend a lot of time in the debate that will follow, on the articles tomorrow and so on. The cost of the social economy is EUR 332,000 per year. What are we to do with the above costs? We are called upon to carry out checks, strengthen the municipalities. How will they do it, as you rightly mentioned a moment ago, Ms. Big housekeeper? How are we gonna do that? Shouldn't there be qualified personnel? Look, it's a common, secret secret, but we have to say it, the fact that the public space is shortened, has been degenerated. We have far fewer employees today than we had three, four or five years ago. Can I tell you where this has led? To external assignments all the time, which I'm trying to avoid. I've said since the first day I came to the Ministry that we're not going to make outward assignments. There can be no outsourcing. There is therefore public money available to enable us to do our job, while at the same time weakening the public sector's knowledge and institutions. I'm with you. We want to have that public sector, which can serve public and not public interests, not party interests, to say it quite simply. We agree. But explain to me the changes that we want to bring - and I would like to thank the New Democracy that has understood and supported us in this - if it can be implemented. On the one hand, we come and say that we want to implement, that the previous law was good, but it did not have the potential to implement it, and on the other hand, we say, do not have the tools to implement it. I analyzed it. Please rethink it. He needs this minimum staff. We made a commitment to Mrs Fotio, who will be with us in a moment, and I believe that the first thing we will do is move. You'll see. We'll finish the law. We'll call the state to come. You'll see it happens. Do not question the speech of Mrs Fotio and myself. We committed ourselves to you and will do so. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] A second issue I would like to focus on is 30%. We'll come back again. What have we done? We have made a deep incision, which has not been understood. For vulnerable groups, what we are saying is that 30% of workers within the COMES should be from the vulnerable group. Members should be another 30%. So, what we're saying is that the threshold you can have is 30% for your employees. Also, a 30% will go through the membership class. As long as members become employees, this figure, 30%, will be swelling. What do we want to do? Let's start with 30% of the workers, because workers in the NPT no longer get hunger wages, just like some people want to support here. They have insurance rights from day one. How, then, can a COMPA have 50% employees with all the obligations we must observe, the legality of everything within the framework of work, when they have not yet started to produce? So we're saying the minimum we're obligating you is to have 30%. I don't know if I've become comprehensible, what we're doing is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u47	Madam Secretary, I'm sorry. Because now I went to the Chair, replacing Mr. Bored, if I'm not mistaken Mr. Bored, he gave you the floor, because you asked him and you have every right, to be quickly placed on a number of issues that arose during the position of the rapporteurs, speakers, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u48	That's exactly what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u49	That, however, and given that there was no time - I, of course, put five minutes for you - is now considered a speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u50	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u51	If you want codified to mention some things and the House wants to hear them, very gladly, but you will have the opportunity to do so in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u52	Let her finish, Mr. President. It is essential that the debate is not followed from the outset.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u53	Listen. I do not want to deny the floor to the Minister. I would like to remind her why she has asked for the floor to be put. Because we have now reached eight minutes and are also waiting for the Members. There's a good mood, alas. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would like to say this: because the list of speakers is going to begin now and because we are going to spend a lot of time, it takes time, looking at an article - exactly what this law says, I am trying to make some clarifications, to save time. I'm not doing 'cause I want to take time right now. I have no reason to. There are two, three more points I want to make. The first point is about democratic decision-making. The representative of the JRC spoke and told us that capital is a social relationship. We fully agree that capital is a social relationship, but we also say that this is where the social economy and the social economy are now determined not by the legal form that takes shape, but by the relationships that workers, people who share with each other and the relationship that they have in terms of ownership with the tools and whatever funds they have at their disposal, so that they can produce. So we are talking about social relations, and we say that within that level, there is a third way that people have already chosen. We respond to what the world has done, we do not come to smoke. So I say that within this framework of citizens' intentions to organise their productive activities in various areas, within a cooperative framework, where the basic principle is 'one vote, one vote', you are going to question it. Your right is to believe that only total changes can bring about change in our social system. We believe that there are forces that can be developed to democratic and collective decisions. The last thing I would like to say is that I would ask the representative from Potami - he said very kindly - not to level and not to generalise everything. It has been mentioned twice - three times at the Special Secretariat and General Secretariat. He said at the end that he agrees that this is a special case, but what should we do? In the general context, the State should be reduced. This is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. We need to look at one case - one case separately because, when we propose our ideas and our opinions on specific issues, the world will start to show us more confidence. When it comes to ideology and ideology, which we say is that there is a smaller state in everything, from there on, how can the world trust us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u56	What would you like, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u57	I request the floor, Mr President, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u58	After two speakers, you will be on your way to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u59	Later. That's my planned speech. Now I would like the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u60	You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, at the house of the hanged man - the people say - they don't talk about rope. And because here we are discussing the social economy, you, as SYRIZA, when our law came in 2010-2011, voted against it. And you voted against him with your other partner, Mr Kammenos, who, as a New Democracy, voted against. We, on the contrary, will vote on parts of your draft law. Our rapporteur told you and we thought about it. Especially for the special secretaries, I'll also be in charge. But you cannot give up on what is the climate of the parliament on a subject as sensitive as the social economy. You have no chance, because your past - I mean the majority today - does not allow you to do so. Secondly, you need to know, because you are already here for two years, that, when the House meets thoroughly, each speaker includes in its thinking and the major current problems. I am not talking about all the current problems, but about the day of the debate absolutely socially controversial. And when Rob Riemen is confirmed in his book "The endless return of fascism", with the functioning of a government that wants to create a definite in the field of justice and information, you will listen to them, Minister. Here it is for the government to speak and listen to the opposition. If you expect us to sew you with roses, you're wrong to wait, Minister. For the actions here, you'll be checked and checked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u62	Good, Mr. Loverdo. Mrs. Gennaia has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing and voting on the bill on the social and solidarity economy and the development of its institutions. In itself, the title is indicative and distinctive, both of the intentions and objectives that we seek to achieve. The social and solidarity economy is to be added as a third point of production of goods and services after the private and public sectors. This sector is differentiated from the two above because of two basic characteristics. Firstly, the activities it develops prioritise social needs and not expansional profitability and, secondly, these activities are developed by collective and democratic processes of participation and decision-making. On the other hand, you do not oppose them, because it aims to produce products and services which are not offered or offered sufficiently by the private and public sectors, with a view to accessing the members of local society to them. So we could say that it is working in a complementary way. Moreover, the main priority is the biopolitics of those who produce or provide these services and the creation of new jobs. It also promotes democratic operation in the way of internal labour organization, the definition of wages, production and reinvestment. Finally, it takes into account and ensures the sustainability of the natural environment and the fight against social inequalities. It follows from all this that we are trying by every means to reverse the negative climate and to mitigate the consequences for all citizens. We achieve this by introducing legislation that implements our commitments to a more friendly, social state, for the participation of the citizens in the economy, by introducing today an institution which is first introduced into the Greek legal order in such a structured way and a specific framework in order to act as a factor for productive reconstruction. This draft law, therefore, aims to set the social economy first and foremost, so that it can contribute with 10% even to the growth of GDP, as is the case in other countries, for example in France, Italy, Spain, the United States and Canada. In Greece, this sector contributes less than 1%. We are therefore all aware of the importance of the project. A very important element is the vehicle selected for the development of the social economy, which is collaborative vehicles. The fuel of the vehicle, as very typically pointed out, is the stable and transparent environment, which can actively support the development of these productive projects, because it will facilitate the participation of citizens in productive activities through self-management and collective entrepreneurship projects. One of the innovations is the creation of a new legal person, which exists in many other countries and is successfully implemented, of the workers' association. In other words, this is a cooperative partnership of at least three natural persons, who are co-operating with a view to being biodiversified by their work. Through this cooperative, workers will be able to take over and operate bankrupt, problematic or abandoned businesses. It will also be possible to involve very small or individual enterprises, which under threat of globalisation or other economic difficulties, which will be able to develop and deliver better in a collaborative environment. Finally, they will be able to have an active role for young people and young people who do not want or cannot join a deregulation labour market, but who want to stay in the country and be able to work with dignity, because the integration of such an enterprise or individuals into the solidarity economy will give them great opportunities for funding through the Social Economy Fund, which is also institutionalised. Therefore, resources amounting to EUR 157 million have already been provided for this project. The Social and Solidarity Economy Bill therefore enables and can mobilise social resources with great efficiency in job creation and the endogenous development of productive tissue. It can and will create new jobs and new stakeholders, where the relations between members and employees will be equal and cooperative, democratically organised. For all these reasons, I believe that this law also sets a strong foundation for a start, a new beginning of healthy development and the social model that we want to strengthen. So for all these reasons, and I support unreservedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Bornholm, and for the economy of time. Mrs Arapatzi has the floor from New Democracy, and then Mrs Arapatzi will be followed by the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Partnership, Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the institutionalization of the social economy, an institution which has as its task to find solutions where the state cannot and the market economy fails. Although the first law on this institution has been passed since 2011, its results have been poor, as the relevant ministerial decisions and circulars have never been applied or adopted. The truth is that today's draft law is little different from that of 2011, which, of course, in his favourite tactics, SYRIZA then voted against and "frozen", which means that all cooperatives had managed to create. However, following the discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs and the New Democracy' s favourable proposals, we shall vote on the bill at first instance and any reservations we make in particular on the articles. The New Democracy is once again facing the parliamentary work and does not say 'no' to all, a practice that SYRIZA has followed for years in the opposition. So, you will allow me the rest of the time of my speech and despite the step-by-step misinterpretations of the Minister's speech alone with the bill, to address today's political reality, which is more severe than ever. Madam Minister, you've given us a misgivings to speak. It's good to hear the MPs calling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u66	Mrs. Arabaji, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u67	Because today is determined by the decision of the Council of State last night, which despite the threats, reasonable paratroopers, intimidation and the attempt to bring the judges of the Council of State to fruition through the first page of "AGEAN" - tactical unprecedented and unprecedented for our democratic state - accepted the appeals of television stations to the unconstitutionality of the Pappa Act. After this brave decision, which shows that the judges are neither blackmailed nor terrified, I wonder whether the Prime Minister and his Government will have the courage to bring back the Poppa amendment, which throws 'black' into the channels and leads thousands of workers in unemployment, without, of course, awaiting the final decision of justice on the constitutionality or not of the law. Will the Prime Minister dare in the speech he has made since yesterday that he will make it return this afternoon to the amendment, which gives rise to the institutions and offends the Council of State much more after last night's decision? However, after Mr Tsipras decided to come and talk this afternoon to the House, should he be apologised for the undocumented commander of the OAU, who calls on anyone who fails to pay contributions to take his business to Bulgaria? Let us just remind the Commissioner of the free professionals that because of the lack of taxes and contributions you have brought with the third and unnecessarily memorable memorandum - which is far more than 1-2017- small and medium-sized enterprises are faced with locks, closures of books and transfer of their homes to abroad. And all of this, of course, following the migration of eighteen thousand Greek businesses over the last two years of SYRIZA - ANEL's "famous" governance. And instead of apologizing and beating your head, you dare and challenge: "left" embroidery in the world of production, in the world that produces, motivates, ignorance, provocative cynicism against the winter private initiative and economy. And because, Minister, I come from Serres Law, a county that really bleeds from the migration of funds and businesses into Bulgaria, I call on the commander to apologize at least and of course to resign, instead of accusing others of having misled his statements. And, likewise, I call on the Minister for Labour, Mr Katrugalo, to abandon this unprecedented cynicism and the courage, analogous to the lies that pensioners' pensions have not been reduced and to stop covering his commander with these misery. And because one of the lies with which this government has intercepted the people's vote was the famous'social sensitivity of the Left', should Mr Tsipras be apologised this afternoon for the fact that despite your false promises and your great words, Mrs Fotio, about a thousand employees in the social structures of the municipalities will lose their jobs in the next hundred and hundreds of thousands of our fellow humans will be left without food, medicine and shelter, since the number of structures in the new NRP - which of course you have not succeeded, and most likely to absorb - will be reduced in 1/3? If Mr. Tsipras passed out of the House yesterday, I imagine he would go around listening to the workers' s slogan: "Lefts eat us bread." The left of responsibility, social sensitivity and the so-called moral advantage is transformed day after day into the left of the para-state, the systematic effort to blackmail, the culmination of all institutions, unemployment, tax expropriation and auctioning. Prove every day how refreshing you are and all you are concerned with is maintaining power. Because only yesterday, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you rejected the amendment that we brought as a New Democracy to suspend the auctioning of first home, to public debtors with property and income criteria. And you rejected it on the grounds that in the near future your government is going to table legislation on the matter. You forget, however, that you have already made this promise since the beginning of 2016 and we are almost there at the end of 2016 and we have not seen legislation. But every Wednesday the auctions and the fear of people don’t lose their home. With your attitude yesterday, you definitively cut down the myth of your supposed social sensitivity and show once again the cruel face of a disgusting authority that flirting constantly with authoritarianism and "decide and order". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This is a tactic that you have also initiated in your party procedures, by imposing results and votes not on the basis of the will of your colleagues, but on the basis of Mr Tsipras' personal plans.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u68	You probably don't know what happened at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u69	The accident for you who are shouting is that the Greek people, Mr. Colleague, are not SYRIZA's meetings to get them to vote and vote again until you get the result you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u70	Mrs. Arabaji!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u71	You're making a big mistake. You're completely ignorant.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u72	The people have learned you now. He knows well, because he's paid dearly for your promises and your heaven-in-law lies. When the time comes, she'll vote once and for all. Right now you're afraid and right now you're trying to prevent yourself from doing anything. In the end, however, - sadly for you and fortunately for the Greek people - the people and democracy will win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u73	Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask, as far as its powers, its availability, of course, and its political will, to try to listen to the opposition. Because there are many times in every phase of the country's parliamentary life, which the opposition, in addition to the criticism it has to make, can say something logical. If it also has a governmental experience, which the current government is lacking in many cases, it can even win by listening to the opposition. We introduced the law on the social economy. I personally, ladies and gentlemen, recommended him to the Papandreou Government in 2010, because this was really a lack of legislation. It was astonished to all my colleagues then that this issue was covered strangely - because good news is never covered by the media - by too many journalists and also had demand from citizens calling the Ministry. The law was completed by my successor, Mrs Katseli, in 2011, if my memory doesn't cheat on me and it wasn't Mr. Koutromanis a little later. I think so. As I said in an intervention I made in the event of an unjustified intervention by the Minister, the current Communism did not vote for. SYRIZA did not vote and Mr Kammenos did not vote as a member at the time of the New Democracy, because the New Democracy had not voted for it either. However, ladies and gentlemen, as I have seen from the debate you have had in the committee, about a thousand SOPA companies have been set up on this subject, making use of that legislation, with its good and its bad, obviously, as is the case with all the laws. If it is true, if that figure is real, within a few years a thousand cases, then the example has worked, the example has succeeded. If it is an example that will give us the tone for the follow-up, we have a good example and the government is now legitimate to want to improve it. We, as a opposition, because we are not at all alike in our ideological references to either our parliamentary and political morale, a part of the bill, and yet we shall vote at first. We ask you to rethink a few comments at the last minute. I wouldn't say everybody or repeat them again. Mrs Christophilopoulou well said. But, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the two special secretariats is one which I am sorry to say again and I regret that, in the context of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister responsible only raised this issue with regard to costs. That's the only way he understood it: "How much does a special secretariat do? So, not as much as you say, but 300,000," he told us. Of course, he did not tell us whether 300,000 is the cost for both special secretariats and for the working party. I don't know. He'll explain it to us. It is also a matter of cost at a time when all Greeks and Greek women are suffering and governments have no money. It is also a matter of costs, ladies and gentlemen, but above all it is a matter of a completely wrong approach to the method of solving our problems. It's a mistake what you've been doing since the first day you took over. Where there is one problem in Greece you also set up an administrative unit, you set up general secretariats, special secretariats, addresses, working group here - and this small administrative group is another state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u75	Advisory services.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u76	It doesn't matter. This conceals two wrong approaches, one of which is absolutely wrong, the other is wrong and a client state. The first approach is that I'm building a secretariat to solve my problem. But, throughout the 2000s, the critical experience you have, your ministries, has accumulated it, that it has never been measured if these units are rendering and probably or in all likelihood are not delivering it. Cost free of charge. On the other hand, here it is rumoured that you have them ready and Special Secretarys. 'They', I don't do that. However, your drive has recorded it as a policy despite the times. Bad past practices that you are watching today with enthusiasm, you like them. They are, ladies and gentlemen, majority members, what you are going to vote on wrong. From personal experience, after I had left the Ministry and the Government, the Ministry of Labour has an official who is too fighting and which is surprising to the citizens from the services he provides. By coincidence, I had the experience of two different people telling me how much they were served by a lady, who answers to e-mails, she tries to give the interpretations of the law where he had problems. I asked for her name. I'll tell you tomorrow in the debate. I don't have it today. It is my omission not to mention that there are people who, despite all the difficulties, give all themselves. This needs to be done by one, two or two, three not to do a structure to have another special secretary who will do nothing. You were given up by a Secretary-General on an unpleasant subject, secondly after Mr Buddour. I'm not saying who's right. Neither we nor I nor Eve Christophilopoulou are making cheap opposition here. But he gave you up on your issues. Anyway, what are we telling you? Our rapporteur told you. I repeat it now. I use all my experience and politics and science: Don't do that. You will not offer the governors anything. It's better to frame the address. I'm the one who dried up a person's function. But also to criticize the fact that one summer all people were looking for an employee to communicate and whoever was picking it up said: "I don't know" or "It's not me", "Here they put me", "They're gonna put me," "They're gonna take me out." An administrative mess of a similar nature has been pointed out by the citizens. I say that's the way it is, the good and the bad. The answer to the problem is not bureaucracy. Understood. If you need to reply, give answers to the substance. Why is this sector that has worked with its good and bad so long that it takes two administrative units - it and other issues - to move on? Why? The answer I gave is one and I must repeat it, because you do not know what is happening to you and you do not take advantage of the experience and mistakes of the periods of acne and you are characterized by the lack of consciousness that the acne is also declining. Secondly, it is true that you combine with your bureaucratic approach to the economy the willingness to serve one or two more of your own people. So I come back to my first advice - not only for this government and for this opposition, but also for all phases of parliamentary life. I would like to say to the people who are struggling to be reasonable in politics, to listen to the opposition. Now, I would like to repeat what I said in the Minister's speech earlier, namely that the hanged man's house is not talking about rope. We are voting for some provisions here and we are voting on the bill and on the principle. We are criticising where we need to criticise. But giving us some understanding when even this law voted against him in 2011, it also takes a little thought, self-consciousness and symptom. To tell as I have it in my mind, it doesn't take you to advise us about consultation, you of the fait accompli everywhere. So listen to the Opposition - I come back - because whoever listens to the Opposition in some of her proposals wins the game of logic and does not lose. Ferrer, ladies and gentlemen, I am a parliamentary representative, and now I shall be general - has the Minister of Industry listened to us when he invited us to vote - and we have all done so - to increase the desecration of smuggling fuel from the agencies? Isn't that two months ago? From this step as a parliamentary representative I said 'We are voting to increase criminality, but the increase in prostitution has not solved the problem. What are you doing with the checks? Do you have anything to tell us about that?' That was an opinion of the Opposition. The answer he gave to another colleague - I do not remember who - was an answer of the press 'We know it all and we will do it all'. The statistics on the increase in smuggling and in the offices in the last few years and after the amendment has been voted on are coming out. It's not like that, ladies and gentlemen. Good intentions. In the media, your Members are also coming out and saying 'will', 'will', 'will'. The social economy was thrown into 'will', 'will', 'will'. They said "We will vote for the development law". What happened, guys, the development law you would have voted for and said to your Members in the media - I see some people here - that it would also be a form of progress? What happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u77	Don't you know the law has been passed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u78	The development law was passed, but the implementation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u79	That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u80	You brought a 2004 standard full of bureaucracy. The unsuccessful model you have adopted again. To see it in practice now. Corruption, delays and involvements, without spending money on the market, dear majority colleague. In conclusion, I would like to say that, although they have ears, it is the Minister of State who told him that what he does is unconstitutional and will find it before him, that the case law of the Council of State is firm and that we have recent decisions. In fact, we had one in November 2015, after the Pappa law was passed. This politician, who has taken care of it in a year, even though young and hopeful - because every young man bears one hope - told me what he was saying. Instead of listening to more experts, instead of listening to the Scientific Studies Directorate, instead of listening, he would listen to the lawyers he hired. Organize Florence! And what he didn't do! When, ladies and gentlemen, this began not to come out of you, then I called with a phrase that I think is very characteristic - moving in the field of fascism, such forces have tried to evacuate what the government wanted. But, ladies and gentlemen, in state functions in a democracy in a Member State of the European Union, no one can control, no matter how much it is undemocratic, no matter how much it thinks it has talent or capabilities, legislative and executive function and judicial function. These things can't be done. The need for some to resort - I can't face, because I don't know - to para-state methods, to fascism itself, to make their will a reality, falls into the void. And it'll fall into the void! Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, here's what the National Representation tells you. Replace your arrogance by landing in everyday life and reality. Because as long as you continue to operate in the way you are operating today, one is the field that belongs to you: the field, the field, the gap, the political gap! Your return to minority, from where you recently started - and you became a majority with lies and deceit - will again become a minority on the worst terms. Rule me wisely! Rule the Constitution! Rule with reason! Otherwise, go to good, so that the country can also find the way it needs so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u81	Now Mr. Gregos has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot help talking about the New Democracy representative's suggestion and say that it is not possible for you to dare speak of freedom of the press and democracy. You who in the period of the Samara junta - Venizelos destroyed the Constitution and offended the city! This has been done on several occasions. The figures are known both in Greece and abroad. They may not have been prosecuted, but these crimes are haunted. The Minister just said we'll do what we can. And what can we do? I shall therefore reply to the Minister, telling her to start with what the Greek people require, to bring back the stolen ones. Let us reply to Mrs Fotio, who is here, what she said to the workers in the social structures that visited her. Did he give a solution? You can answer that, so that the Greek people can hear it. Of course the New Democracy agrees with this bill, because, as we have already said, these are the same policies, the same neoliberal policies. We are talking about a very serious bill on labour. This draft law, but also current political developments, are offered for a number of comments and comments. To be honest, I did not really understand the narrative of the SYRIZA rapporteur. In fact, I appreciate that the same thing happened to those who watched him. I did not know the gentleman until today, but he did not convince us at all about the intentions of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Good words of excellence and words wishful to the ears of a specific audience: solidarity, self-management, social economy - as you mean it -, solidarity economy and various other graphics. We were told by the Memorandum Members and the Ministers - I am talking about New Democracy and SYRIZA - that people are above numbers. Of course! However, the figures are of some importance, and they say: 35% of Greeks are on the verge of poverty. Greece is the first black-worked country. There are 4.2 million taxpayers in the tax office to 20,000 euros each, a total of EUR 5.2 billion. Four hundred and twenty thousand households have red housing loans of EUR 26 billion. It's in red 1,95 million consumer loans. Three hundred five thousand free professionals and small businesses have EUR 15 billion red loans. Total outstanding debts and loans are EUR 191 billion. We are talking today about social economy and social structures. The economy you and your predecessors have broken up with the orders of the well-known bosses. Social structures are closed. The workers are unpaid, and they're on the streets. Mrs Fotou informed them that unfortunately nothing can be done. The workers in these structures have been unpaid for six months and serve thousands of Greeks in need. We are talking about great needs for food and medicines. These needs are constantly growing. You had, of course, ensured that you democrats cut the financing of the Golden Dawn very democratically, from which we had accumulated without a party identity, and which some idiots characterized as a bunch of hate. Invoke the money you have received from the channels, which, of course, you have not collected or collected a small part, around 80 million, and which you have given a few ten times up to health, education, social solidarity. You can enjoy each other at your meetings, but lies have a certain time limit. The limit for the first year has already passed. You recommend special Social Integration Secretariats Roma. You put your responsibilities in place, set up positions and appoint special secretaries. I wonder when and how these groups joined such a context. They don't want it either. They have specific ways of organization and living, they have other attitudes, other customs and traditions. They deal mainly with trade, and that is where they draw resources. Set up a committee, if you wish, to monitor by those Roma, to make these programmes and manage the funds, to see what happens. Don't you dare. In Article 2, you are talking about vulnerable social groups and special groups. You put in the same bag - you hear - victims of domestic violence, victims of trafficking and trafficking in human beings, homeless people, people living in poverty and extreme poverty, single-parent families and long-term unemployed over the age of fifty. You put them in the same category as refugees and asylum seekers for as long as the asylum request is pending. Let me ask you something else: are these people getting AMCA? And if they take it, how do they take it? You put in the same bag and economic migrants. Finally, who are these economic immigrants? Let us say this once again: these people are not refugees. Most are illegal immigrants and many of them are members of terrorist organisations, jihadists than they proved. Refugees were the Serbs when your allies bombed them in 1999 and they didn't come to Greece. The bill has a lot of articles, but it's too small. You cannot solve the problems of Greek society. You can't and they won't let you. You don't care either the present or the future of this country. You only care about one date at the end of the month and your obsession with power. We will stand by the Greek people, as we have done with ethos and consistentness so far and will give a struggle hard but victorious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Grego. Mr Aristides Fokas has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our small parliamentary experience has taught us that whenever you turn from the reactions of the social group, you remember your left handovers. You are bringing to the vote bills, which you are looking for to be enjoyable again at your limited party audience. Obviously, as was reflected in the committee responsible, the Centro Association does not disagree with the usefulness of this law. Obviously, we believe in the encouragement and development of the social and solidarity economy, as well as in the adoption of specific rules regulating the smooth operation of the institutions. It is clear that in a period of deep economic and social crisis it is essential to mobilise civil society, to develop collectiveism, to support the state of this project, to activate the citizens, particularly those belonging to the so-called 'fair groups', and to all those young - unemployed who have given birth to the crisis and are looking for a place in the labour market. As we read, the social economy has created over 14 million quality jobs in recent years and represents 10% of total employment. In Belgium, the social economy sector increased by 8.5%, as opposed to 1.5% of the rest of the economy. In Spain at the time of crisis nine thousand social economy enterprises and seventy thousand jobs were created. These figures clearly show that we need to invest in this direction. Besides, not to hide, in our economy, we have little left but to move forward, innovation, extroversion, investment in something new. At the same time, however, I cannot hide my concern about the corporations that you leave open to this bill, open doors, which I cannot rule out how they will be used to serve "mothers". In particular, I will rely on the article on the programming contracts between public sector bodies and the social economy actors. I see creative ambiguities and generalities, which can very easily be misunderstood and can even lead to public recruitment on the street, as is usually the case. Unless that is the case. But with these pathogens we must once end in this place. I am also unable to understand why Greek taxpayers should be charged with an additional EUR 700,000 for the establishment of two new stamps, while very easily exploited by the Ministry. In any case, the social and solidarity economy cannot function as a la carte nor is it a privilege of the so-called left you represent. I hope and hope that, for once, the logic and implementation of the law will be fundamental for the benefit of Greek citizens, because your policies then follow the previous ones, of course, only get poverty and the reforms you have promised remain a letter. To conclude, I should like to refer to a major problem which Thessaloniki has been facing over the last few years. A month ago, we all remember that OSTH's workers had pulled a handbrake and the city of Thessaloniki had no buses for fifteen days. Imagine a city, the largest city in Europe with a means of transport - it is the only city with a million people who have a public transport instrument - and we have not had that for fifteen days. There were kidney patients and cancerous Thessalonians who wanted to go to hospitals and had no transport. They have been forced at this time to take a taxi which nowadays is not for all people. Also, there were residents in the Region of Thessaloniki, residents from the Prefecture of Imathia, Pieria, Pellas, in the Prefecture of Florina, who were on a bus to Thessaloniki KATELs and from there to the airport of Macedonia, had to take a taxi at a cost of EUR 25 and 30. Today, the middle class doesn't have that money. The problem that OSH faces must be solved urgently, because no solution has yet been found and there are other problems. At the moment, the Thessaloniki CBELs can no longer raise the burden of debts. OSTH owes them 500,000 euros, OSTH owes the Ministry and has 1 million euros to receive from the Region of Central Macedonia as well. The employees at the Thessaloniki CATEGORY are threatening to pull the brakes in the next 15 days as well. You can understand that the problem will be huge, because the villages that are around Thessaloniki, in the Prefecture of Thessaloniki, from Lagada to Asprovalta and Cross. Please find a final solution to OSH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Fokas. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I think the last point raised by my colleague is very important, although it is not directly related to the bill. But it is about the Ministry, the political leadership, because it is one of the bodies that both OSH and OSCE should have. At this point, the state's debts to OSCE are 65 million. These are, of course - to a lesser extent - the debts to the OSH. I would therefore say that, instead of afflicting the citizens in this process, the Ministry of Labour should carry out its obligations. Of course, after twenty days, the reasoning will be, "we do not get to the press", "we do not have the contracts ready and we have not gone through the process". Okay. Today, however, thousands of citizens are suffering because of this inertia. We have already expressed our vote on the bill by the committee - and we are today expressing the vote in principle. After all, our vote could not be different because it is our line that introduced the concept of social economy and social entrepreneurship into Greek law. We have created the social cooperatives' foundation with the respective procedures for the first time in the country, according to the modern data. Of course, collective forms of social economy have developed, as I have said to the Commission, since 1780 with the vineyards, since the beginning of the previous century and, of course, with the great cooperative and productive movement that has existed in the agricultural sector. Today, instead of correcting the bad texts, mistakes and omissions of the previous bill, and thus expressing the continuity that has to be found in the Greek state, the government is coming to legislate from the beginning and repeating the same mistakes, leaving the gaps, omissions and those found unmistakable. We spoke with proposals in particular, based on the conclusions of the International Conference which we organised in November 2014 on social entrepreneurship. Some of the proposals have been touched by the Minister, but without giving a solution, without adopting what will change the pieces that are not properly legislated or complementing the institutional framework where it is incomplete. To speak in particular: First, it gives definitions that mock ears who want to hear them, but they are outside and beyond any reality. It is good - of course, Metropoulos left SYRIZA, who had sent him and obtained a doctorate for self-management in Yugoslavia, but the books he has published are useful - to be able to read what'self-management' means because by definition, every private enterprise is self-managed. It's self-managed every private business. But self-management in the public sector, in the wider public sector and, of course, in the social economy is another thing. Let us say that you are giving a definition of what is 'just trade', but neither the first nor the recasting, within the framework of the capitalist system. We should go to specific issues. It has been said by the institutions - we have also pointed out - that the problems that this bill has to deal with are four, five, to be an important intervention. In any case, this is a very important matter and I would like to stress it. However, the legislation must resolve issues and indeed the issues identified. One is the degeneration of the concept of'social economy'. First of all, social economy which is not solidarity does not exist. The social economy is also solidarity and ecological and environmental and is also a number of other things. Everything can't get into the title. All right, you put the "convergence" to separate it. To tell me a social economy enterprise that is not solidarity, let's see, that title is where it comes from. Degeneration is the greatest risk. You define as a'social economy' as a non-one-stop shop. I mean, two people create a body, they put on the features you say and it's the social economy. Mercy! In the definition of the social economy, you say 'non-one-stop shop', so two people. Either you put the limit of five and seven, as it has entered the SEPA - quite rightly - with some exceptions - if this is established - or you cannot say that two and three people are a social body. It's a business that can be IKE, it can be O.E., it can be S.E. Or the U.S., but it's not a social economy. With regard to funding, improvements have been made with regard to the legislation brought by Mrs Antonopoulou on this issue. A comprehensive framework of tax incentives is needed. The 10% that we said from tobacco products - whether produced in our country or imported - and, of course, from gambling must go to the Social Economy Fund. Contact the Treasury and bring the provision - there are three lines - to vote on it. I do not believe there will be a party that will not vote for it. We also need to see the pay issue. Is it defined as a top cap, and isn't it a bottom cap for the payroll? The Minister is gone, Mr. Katrugalos. The basic salary is EUR 751 for enterprises in the social economy. It's something different. Is it EUR 751 for social economy enterprises, not EUR 568? It's something we can do for the lower.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u87	The others?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u88	Now we are talking about the social economy and they say they can legislate. So we're coming to this. I'm closing up on the subject of transparency. Unfortunately, as I told you to the Commission, the great problem of the previous law is the competitive selection procedure of the SIPA, which was missing and with which the municipality or any other body you want to conclude the planning contract. Darkness we had left in the previous law, more tar is here. What should there be? A public invitation to the body that says, "I want to do this, with a social economy body, and I call on all the actors who want to come to give their positive proposal to do this." If there is no competitive procedure, each mayor is free to take whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u89	Let's finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u90	The same, Mr President, regarding the issue of building concessions. Mercy! There should be a competitive procedure if it is for a particular purpose. Not the first person to ask. One is asking for it, one is coming out of competition, and we see who is most reliable, who meets more conditions. I told you in advance that it was something that was missing from the previous one. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, forty-seven students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the 4th High Thevas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Soon we will give the floor to the President of the New Democracy and to the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, in my previous position in the House, I warned Mr Tsipras that our country cannot afford to add to the great economic crisis that is plagued by a crisis of democracy. Unfortunately, developments in recent days have fully confirmed what we have said. Our country is experiencing an unprecedented institutional degeneration. The government follows extreme methods that offend the rule of law and undermine the quality of our own democracy. Over the last few days, we have experienced unacceptable manipulations which were intended only to put pressure on judges in the face of the Conference of the Council of State, which will judge the constitutionality of the 'Pappa Law', and which refer to para-state lawlessness rather than to the rule of law! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I read the same quote from the Communication from the Union of Judges and Prosecutors: "The judges of the country are watching with disgrace and great concern the dismay of public morals. By publications which do not have to do with the public interest, the functioning of information and the service of truth, the privacy of a man, a judge of unknown prestige, is intercepted, perverted, and offered to the yellow-eyed type and the part of the public opinion formed by him, phenomena... - gentlemen of the government - "...extremely nursery linked to methods involving fascist regimes". I am tabling the relevant communication on the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Never in the history of post-democratic democracy has such an announcement been issued by judges and prosecutors, because we have never had such an unacceptable pattern of manipulation aimed at the moral extermination of anyone standing in the plans of the government. It is really causing the democratic reflexes of society - and it should also provoke your own reflexes! - the fact that the body of the ruling party, the newspaper 'AUGI', publishes photography and publishes personal data of a supreme judge on the day that he participates in the Supreme Court Conference. I'm putting down the relevant front page for the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned front page, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, this personal data were in some way that we do not know leaked online, but they had emerged in the House from the well-known mud contractors and, of course, to give the Minister of Justice the necessary press, who otherwise sees his sensitivity to human rights, to investigate the matter disciplinaryly. Unfortunately, what is happening is another sign of writing a power that has no suspension in its attempt to undermine what is resisting it as an institutional counterweight, an authority that appoints the Vice-Presidents of the Ice Bay and a power that sends home those officials who denounce scandalous cases of corruption and the destruction of state money, as was done with the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Employment, but also a little earlier with the Secretary-General of Migration Policy, without feeling the need to investigate these heavy accusations. Ladies and gentlemen, justice is the last institutional retreat to the authoritarianism of the executive. And we will protect the prestige of justice and its institutional independence. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Yesterday's decision of the Council of State marks the will of the court to judge the substance of the constitutionality of the "Pappa Law" and not to reject such actions for formal reasons. It is an important development. It is a development which, in its way, fully justifies the position of the New Democracy, which I have repeatedly formulated from this step, saying that it should not under any circumstances be the Government to proceed with the process of licensing television channels before the Supreme Court judges the substance of the 'Pappa Law'. The decisions of the Government in no way can and should not prejudge decisions of justice. I warn the government, today, that this step forward does not continue to throw oil into the fire and that it does not understand and allow justice to take its decision unaffected and not under the threat of any new legislation that will throw black into the media and create irreversible situations, leading to thousands of workers in unemployment. The immediate response of the anti-population complex, but also of course of civil society, together with the decision of the court, have, at least until now, been stopped by Mr Tsipras and Mr Papapas to close the channels within five days. I do not imagine within your deadlock, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you should consider bringing this coup d'état amendment back. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The 'black' to pluralism and information will not pass! And I now come to the matter of the National Radio Television Council. Look, the New Democracy over time supports the functioning of strong independent authorities, who are responsible and efficiently performing their role, away from interventions by the executive. This is also the point of the independent authorities. But strong independent authorities, with the powers provided for by the Constitution, not puppets. We have shown that we are not only exercising a dynamic opposition, but also a responsible and effective opposition. We do not deny everything, as you, Mr SYRIZA, have done, that you have blocked the formation of the independent authorities. We agreed on the staffing of four of the five constitutionally guaranteed Independent Authorities, ASP, Citizens' Prosecutor, Personal Data Protection Authority. That is why, because we are defending the independent authorities, we call for a return to the National Broadcasting Council precisely of its constitutionally guaranteed competences, a return which the government still refuses today. The truth is that the government in this matter is not interested in any consensus. Collaborators are also looking to facilitate it in the control it wants to exercise in the media. So our position on the PSE was clear from the start, so we are continuing to defend the democratic functioning of the institutions. We have put, from the first speech I made as Head of the New Democracy from this Step, one condition only to proceed with the formation of the National Broadcasting Council: the restoration of constitutional legitimacy, the cancellation of the "Pappa Law" and the regaining of the responsibilities which the Government has devised from the PSE. The composition of the PSE is a later issue. What is the point, in other words, of having an PSE from which Mr Pappas will have removed the powers assigned to him by the constitutional legislature? We will therefore expect the final judgment of the Court of Justice and if the Court considers that the law is unconstitutional, then the government will have one single option: to return the powers to control the broadcasting landscape to the independent authority and to abolish the unacceptable restriction of the number of television licences. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the situation in the country is getting worse. At a time when, instead of bringing together forces to face up to the great challenges facing the country, the government insists that it divides the citizens. I invite all Greek women and all Greeks to democratic awareness. The great democratic conquests of this people cannot be called into question by an authoritarian government, whose only concern is to remain in power at all costs. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Our homeland cannot stand any further undermining of the institutions, it cannot stand any further collapse of its international credibility. The government today cannot offer citizens a better perspective. And, unfortunately, it cannot even claim what the country needs to get out of the crisis. Even on the question of debt, which we all agree in this Chamber is to be dealt with as soon as possible, what is required to claim what we deserve, is credibility and a reformist will, two virtues that this government does not have. And no reshape is going to get Mr. Tsipras out of the dead ends he created. Every day that passes, makes the country's relocation a more difficult matter. And that is why we insist that political change is more imperative today than ever to make all of us a fresh start together, to heal the deep wounds of the "first time of SYRIZA" as soon as possible, so that we can look back at the future with optimism, with confidence. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close with the following point: two years ago, the view that things in the country could not get any worse was dominated. Unfortunately, however, they did. And today Mr Tsipras adds to the heavy economic crisis, which he himself caused with his manipulations, methods that undermine democratic institutions and strengthen the political climate, and methods that divide society. And I want this opportunity again to address all Greek women and all Greeks. We can make it. We can join forces with hard work, with a fair distribution not only of burdens, but also of opportunities, but above all of a strong and strong democracy which respects the rule of law. And for the New Democracy, we warn you, gentlemen of the government, the last condition is unnegotiable! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity asked for the floor, Mr Katrugalos. Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. The Chief of the New Democracy appeared as a guardian, supposedly, of the practices of the parastate and as the therapists of the rule of law. No criminals or healers. You have systematically undermined the rule of law and the Constitution and you are, in the context of old-fashionedism, the operative cause of interlocutory. As Mr. Yannitsis's book of insurance did not read well in the debate, so he did not read the announcement of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors. Where does the Union of Judges and Prosecutors render the unacceptable phenomenon of yellowism? It gives it to economic complexity and economic interests, and it speaks of a common weapon to the patronage patronage. Who's this photographing, gentlemen? Who made the complex in Greece? Who built this complex of political and economic interests that we are coming to demolition today? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] How dare you do what the judges give you to return them to us? When did the Left Paradox make? When did the left-wing state make an intertwined state? Actually, gentlemen, you didn't throw away the glove. White towel you have thrown delivery into the system of interlocutory, to the glamorous ones, the ones your Chief used to call in the past pimps of political life. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's none of our business. But your deepest hypocrisy seems to be that even today, at the last moment, while invoking the rule of law and the application of the Constitution, you do not respond to your constitutional obligation to set up the National Broadcasting Council. That's hypocrisy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is the undermining of the rule of law, and that is the courage of a thousand monkeys that characterizes you. So we respond and tell you that we have come to dismantle the system of interlocutory and serve the rule of law. Conversely with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u96	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u97	And in the end, the Chief of the New Democracy spoke very much about the unity of the Greek people, which is supposed to be serving your prolongation. Now that it is starting - I have repeatedly been directed by this Step and by all my public communications - the negotiation on labour, are you a party in favour of the joint declaration by the social partners to return the collective negotiations we have declared to be the national position or are you with the International Monetary Fund? It's obvious that your past is boring and characterizing you. You are not champions of the rule of law, you are not champions of the Constitution. But this is what our government is doing, and that is what the Minister of State is doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u98	Please, let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u99	And we have complete confidence in the independent Greek justice, which serves the Constitution, which denounced you with its representatives, and knows who in the past had attempted this deadly embrace for the justice that you old-fashioned, old-fashioned system, brought you to the country and which is why you are now in these opposition headquarters. And we are here, trying to implement the people's mandate and finally bring back not only the media, but overall the institutional system in legality, democracy and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Panagiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u101	Mr Minister, I owe you, in view of what you have said, but I think it is incomplete. As a Qualified Opposition, we are in favour of that rule of law in which the responsible Minister first prosecutes the evildoers and does not prosecute the judges. In particular, it deals with improving the working conditions of judges and not improving the operating conditions of malicious-criminals. That's the rule of law we are. As far as the PSE is concerned, our position was also very clear. Rehabilitate the institutionally guaranteed status of the Constitution and here we are discussing the others. As long as you do not do, we have no reason to talk about the staffing of an PSE dealing with the granting of licences to regional channels - while the central channels licenses have been issued by the responsible super-Canator - Minister or canalarch - Vice-President - choose and take - or impose a fine on someone who has spoken inappropriately in the air. This, in our view, is the established core competence of the PSE. We call for the restoration of this power, and that is where our position is based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u104	Just a minute, and Mr. Pappa. But, look. We have a bill - apologise, Mr Pappas, give a minute to the Bureau - and it is a debate that is currently taking place where forty-seven speakers are registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u105	Is that our fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u106	I'll keep the House informed. I'm not talking to anyone personally. So, in this direction, because the bill and a number of speakers, who have the right to speak and speak, please, will ask that we continue the legislative procedure after Mr Papayannakis. Mr. Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u107	I just need a minute. Thank you, Mr President, very much and thank you for your understanding. I would also like to thank Mr Panagiotopoulos for his kind words of softness which he has chosen for my face. Because we have suffered, as you know, because you are following things, insulting, slandering and a number of things. The sad thing in this case is that the Civic Opposition, instead of having its own political mark, once again chooses to be a line of interests. Your obligation to contribute to the development of the operation of the National Broadcasting Council and its legal establishment is not in a position and cannot enter any conditionality. A contest is completed, you have one more chance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u108	Why did the increased majority enter the Constitution if they don't have any terms?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u109	Mr Vorides, therefore, precisely so that we can go to the person's level in a composition that expresses everyone. These are excuses to all laws. Our law, Law No.4339, had most of the responsibilities for the National Broadcasting Council. You have chosen consciously to undermine it and now you are coming and you are paying the consequences of these political choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u110	Will you commit to awaiting the decision of the CR?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u111	You're welcome. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u112	So I want you to go out again to the Greek people and say that the money that the channel owners have paid for the first time, the money you have never dared to have them collected. This is your minimum obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u113	Thank you. We continue in the bill with the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u115	No, I'm so sorry. You are well aware that the Conference of Presidents is currently convening solely on the national Broadcasting Council. So let us wait for the decision and we have time to discuss any conflicts and listen to the positions. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. With this draft law, the co-government attempts to disorientate the working class, the poor populaces and the unemployed by telling them that the answer to the capitalist crisis, poverty and unemployment is not the path of the organized unstable class struggle to overthrow the power of the monopolies or the struggle to conquer their own power with socialized means of production, the central planning of the economy and labour popular control. Your answer is management and permanentization of poverty with COMPAs, volunteering, NGO, social medicine and grocery stores, kitchens, while capitalists are free to enjoy the privileges, luxury and wealth generated by the working class. It thus disarms the people from the struggle to recover their losses, which have been removed over the last six years with the three memoranda, on the right to permanent and stable work with full insurance and pension rights, on the right to only public and free access to education, health and welfare, on the baby nurseries and so many others who were conquered with long and bloody struggles. With the misleading title "social and solidarity economy" the government is attempting to make illusions in the working folk layers, perfectly convenient to their exploiters, that the answer to the capitalist crisis is within capitalism, so you don't have to overthrow it. That this barbaric system has solutions to the dead-ends that it itself bears and reproduces, that you too, a worker, an unemployed man, a double oppressed woman, and you, young man, can be boss. Reduction of requirements in conditions of absolute impoverishment, the domination of the perception that it is more likely to find a way out of capitalism than to overthrow it is the basis on which the theories of integration and class cooperation are developed. Government and employers are aware of this very well. It is convenient for workers not to fight against them, but to be caught in desperate attempts to reopen bankrupt capitalist operations, broken social structures and services, in order to survive in the jungle of capitalist competition, to find a temporary way out of extreme poverty, while the monopolistic groups are resilient, while the working class continues to live the most brutal exploitation. Marx, however, gives you a paid response to the theories of the 19th century, old and failed recipes of social democracies that you are reinstated, that it may seem to be possible in a cooperative form to remove the contrast between capital and work, but only in its form, because the workers who participate in the cooperative are actually transformed into capitalists themselves. This important point, bypass, to encroach on the unemployed on the idea that they can become themselves businesspeople. Tested, too, for the theories of the relationship between the social economy and civil society and the participatory democracy, which found their expression in the most indignant squares and indignant ones. Deoriented theories that extremize the system and are used as a means of integrating possible triumphs that could threaten the economic and political power of capital. These operations of self-management, social economy, not only do they not overthrow capitalism, but instead give him the kiss of life for his perpetuation. It is no coincidence that the social economy is projected by the European Union, the OECD, governments, as a pillar of strategic importance for employment in times of capitalist crisis. You're fooling the unemployed looking for a way out. You are feeding state and European funding on poverty management networks through NGOs and local administration, while at the same time you are kicking the people with wage and pension cuts. You're doing taxation, you're driving to auctions, to business with the block. Close structures such as psychodiagnostic centers, dissolve primary health care and hospitals, raise more barriers to youth education. The social economy in fact, not only does it affect the foundations of the capitalist way of production, but it strengthens its laws. The social economy, ladies and gentlemen, is not a discovery of SYRIZA, nor of PASOK, although the latter has introduced this logic of COMPAs into our country by law of 2011. We go farther back to Utopian small socialists, but also to the reformist stream of the 19th century, to your ideological mentor, Bernstein, with the theories of the possibility of changes in capitalism. The government, ladies and gentlemen, extends this model of self-managed economy to workers' cooperatives, particularly the reorganisation and reorganisation of bankrupt enterprises or threatened with the closure of participatory democracy. It prejudges, that is, a model in a parallel universe other than capitalism. Development in BIOME is extremely revealing, as is international examples, with the top of "Mondragon" in the Basque Country, where the initial rate of higher and lower wage than three to one has gradually increased to nine to one, while introducing the calendar flexibility, with which working hours are adapted to the workload. Not only the Mondragon, but all cooperatives and non-businesses have a similar function in Britain, France, Sweden and Ireland. The same in Argentina, where self-managed workers could not even approach their wages at the pre-2001 levels. Workers are now experienced by such socialist islands in capitalism. They are transformed into capitalist companies. All these operations went bankrupt. They were overcome in the very context of capitalism. So-called social control and participation are carrots to reconcile workers with crumbs and poverty management structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u117	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u118	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. The JRC is fighting for today, at the same time showing the prospect of the future. It is not subject to poverty management logic. That's why the working class is to take into her hands the social wealth she produces and turn him into her own weapon to satisfy her real needs. That is why the difference in Utopian socialism with your own modern, well-known social democratic theories is that those who were trying at that time in the 19th century have been delusional, and today your respective projects are the result of deception by the workers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u119	Independent MEP Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. In Ancient Athens there was the so-called writing of illegals. The Bible was the lawsuit of the ancients. Anyone who could be accused of introducing a resolution into the Church of the Municipality that was illegal, whoever introduced it, but also the president of the Church of the Municipality in the process by which this illegal resolution existed. To explain it to the people that are watching us, the resolutions of the Municipality Church are our laws, while the laws, such as Solon's laws, were the Constitution of the Time. So whoever introduced anti-constitutional law - attention, not the Church of the Municipality that voted for it, but whoever brought him to vote - could be sued and sentenced to a heavy fine or even dishonesty, i.e. the deprivation of his political rights. Should we be reintroducing such a responsibility from the ministers who enter this House to vote for unconstitutional provisions, such as that for the channels of Mr Pappas? Should the ministers who mislead the House finally start to vote for such legislation and such amendments? So the logic will come - and the decision will come - do not worry - blackmails of a fascist type, which the SYRIZA body, "AYYY", reproduces them as headlines. The teacher Maronite said: "Fassism is to be publicly in love for your private behaviour and to be questioned privately for your public attitude." That is exactly what you are doing, ladies and gentlemen of condolence. But also corruption, don't forget it. Complaints and resignation from Mrs. Chalikia. Where are the prosecutors at last? Are everyone scared? Complaints and resignation by Mr. Buddouris. The government is deaf. Fatal dropping. The same in Serres, the same in Patras. Slowly packed. You are every word of interlingualism and authoritarianism. So be careful, ladies and gentlemen, this must not continue. Of course you have forgotten all the people you were supposed to support. All of them! Ask the Members in Kavala what they promised the workers in the Fertilizers and what they are told now, who turn around and don't talk. Who do they stand for? Who? The complication? Let's talk a little bit about the bill. Of course, the social economy can strengthen employment. Therefore, the creation of a broad framework for the creation of its bodies is both positive and necessary. Nevertheless, in this piece of legislation, which, in general terms, moves in the right direction, there are omissions, questions and the present option to create a feud. For every problem, we also have a new agency, naturally dependent on the party. The Social Economy Fund intended to be set up is of key importance for the financing of the third pillar of the national economy. The long-term inability of banks to finance cooperative schemes, especially now in crisis situations, may make the fund and the only funding solution. However, the reference to its operation in a ministerial decision raises doubts as similar efforts had failed in the past. Great questions are created by the provision of concessions of public bodies to social economy bodies, without any reference to criteria. Which bodies can concessions be granted? What kind of assets? With what aim? Based on what strategic exploitation plan? Absolute darkness in all of this. Darkness, which creates reasonable suspicions of gifts to “logues.” The same as that which enables social economy operators to conclude contracts for works and programmes of social benefit. On what criteria will these awards be made? The convenience we have seen in the issue of the transfer of OTE shares yesterday, we see it repeated today. You grant the property of the Greek people. It is with great ease that you are apportioning the delay of the Greek taxpayer. Ladies and gentlemen, the management of public money and property needs transparency, clear and objective criteria and accountability rules. I know, you don't like it. The authoritarian parties never like accountability, the rules of accountability. The same pluralist logic is seen in the committees that you are creating. National Committee for Social and Solidarity Economy, to promote social dialogue, development of activities, the implementation of a national plan. And immediately thereafter, the Coordinating Committee on Social and Solidarity Economy for an opinion, evaluation and updating of the strategy. In addition to administrative costs, this logic is ineffective. It's always organized labyrinths you create. I would also like to mention the incomprehensible provision for the real estate of the social security institutions. It is incomprehensible to give employees of social security institutions the opportunity to take projects in real estate of the institutions themselves. So the service employees will say we need a job and then they'll take it themselves? As also, enter a provision for the possibility of granting funds real estate by decision of the Minister and an opinion of the board of bodies. There is no mention of what principles this will be. Is this a method of modern public governance? Make half a step forward, trying to create operating frames and ten steps back, because you finally realize that the state and the public property are elements under your absolute and without criteria of control. So you think the public should work as a feud. It is the logic of political transaction, the logic of the splitting up of public money, the formation of the state - party feud. Unfortunately, you show that this is what you want to create and nothing else. So you have started a categorically and in general terms, which I referred to at the beginning of my speech, but also in particular in relation to this bill - a catastrophe that will lead to your collapse. Unfortunately, along with your collapse, you will also lead to a collapse in this country. We absolutely must prevent this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Katrugalos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. It's a bill of particular importance. Let us not say a few words about the bill, as I heard the previous speaker say. And it is important, because the social economy, the so-called third sector, concerns the workers themselves, who can especially in crisis, manage sectors of economic activity outside the state and the market margin. But it can be in the same way and wider strata of the people. For example, in Italy, social cooperatives, which bring products without intermediaries, through virtually supermarkets, are widespread among consumers. So, although, through institutions such as the social economy, social relations cannot change, it is an important tool to improve both the working conditions of workers, a tool to tackle the crisis and in self-management, indeed a pre-plan for future socio-economic relations. I therefore consider this contribution particularly important and at a time when we need to heal the wounds of the implementation of six years of concentrated neoliberalism. Because that was the essence of the memorial policy. That is precisely why this draft law needs to be examined in the light of our other brief efforts in this direction. The bill, for example, of the Ministry of Rural Development for agricultural cooperatives moves to the same logic, to be able to use forms of cooperative organisation of farmers to deal with permanent problems that the Greek economy has, such as small sizes of production, the inability to standardise, to combine, that is to say, light industry, which requires a massive volume of production. That's exactly where our difference with the alternative models of economic development seems. For example, the McKinsey report, which was accepted as a model of development by the Civilian Opposition Party, also highlighted the same problems that I am telling you, the need for small production to concentrate on a great deal. But how did they propose to solve this? With three olive mills throughout Greece, the same way that neoliberalism as a whole is trying to bring the economic matter to the top of the activity, not just indifferent, but also in view of the "death of the merchant" or the disappearance of the small producers. So we should have in mind that by talking about fair growth we are not exercising a left-wing rhetoric, but we really have an alternative economic and social policy than the one that is being implemented so far. I do not want to answer any objections that concern, say, why we are doing a special secretariat on the social economy. But precisely because we want to place particular emphasis on this area. It is extremely cheap yellowing to say that we are doing this to put a special secretary on the table. Is that how the client state is set up? They should have experience of those who have set up patronage systems so long as these jobs are done. These criticisms don't touch us. I also do not want to extend to other details, because the co-president, who also has the motherhood of the bill, was already detailed and will then be extended. I just want to close, to be at the limits of time, by saying that to have a fair growth we need workers who will not be unhappy, will not live in a working jungle, without rights, as the landscape of the labour market has become over the last six years. That is why the forthcoming negotiation with the institutions for work is very critical. There we do not just want to give one son to the requirements of lenders, but we want to return Greece to the normality of social Europe, to have collective negotiations, to have the opportunity for the social partners to decide on wages and other things that concern them. And, obviously, we will also be able to cover other problems that the social protection system has. Because - badly lies - if you have the average wage at 800 euros, how can pension also be? These are transported containers. So, at the moment, we are really at the threshold not just of returning to normality, not just of returning to growth, but of trying to change Greece in terms of economics and in terms of social relations and, above all, in terms of prospects, in an effort to give hope here that has so far been fearful for tomorrow. To conclude - I will do so all the time until I get an answer from New Democracy - we do not yet have a position on whether the joint declaration by the social partners is supported by a national position. On the contrary, we have the announcements made by the Chief of Officerial Response in the International Report of Thessaloniki that we should haggle, exchange structural changes - which you know are the euphemism used by the International Monetary Fund to further deregulation the labour market, to further reduce workers' rights - by reducing budgetary requirements. We are not prepared to do anything like that. We will not sacrifice the rights of workers and their future for any consideration. Obviously, we want to regulate the debt issue. It is our creditors' obligation, since we respect our obligations towards them, but under no circumstances will we sacrifice a working right of those who were won with decades of struggles on the altar of any alternative interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Vanja from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, at some point I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u125	On personal grounds, Mrs. Antonopoulou? Are you asking for the floor now or what? I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u126	I can do it afterwards, but because there have been two, three references to one issue, I want with transparency and very clearly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u127	On a matter concerning the bill, not you personally...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u128	No, on a personal matter that concerns me in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u129	If you're urgent to talk now, and Mrs. Brandza gives you her turn and she gives you the time you deserve, I'd be happy to. Otherwise, if you wish, you can speak after the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u130	It's all right, Mr. President, let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Vanja. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u132	Thank you. There have been reports of false news. There is the resignation of the Secretary-General - indeed - the management of Community and other resources within the Ministry of Labour. However, reproducing in the House arguments which are not documented - some newspapers wrote something - and becoming portrayers of these false news is not right. What I mean to say is that if we are victims and misled and repeat the same arguments and we are reproducing in here, it is wrong. Explore the most, ask for explanations and I'll give them to you. Let us not repeat lies and disorientate ourselves from the right subject of our debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u133	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Vanja. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u134	Thank you. I will limit my speech to the social and solidarity economy bill, precisely because I believe that this should be done and I think it is important. Of course, because I have been in the Chamber since the beginning, I would like to say that the courage and hypocrisy are abundant, mainly by the MPs of the Officerial Opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the markets and the state, beyond the public and private sectors, there has been and has been a third interim route for our national economy for decades, a road that opens in many and different directions, from public voluntaryism and solidarity to locally supported agriculture and from democratic participation in product production to the provision of services through social cooperatives. This is precisely the path of the social and solidarity economy which, with a particular sense of its importance, we are debating here today. This is, indeed, an area which has been growing rapidly not only at national level but also at global level in recent years. According to data from the UN Institute for Social Development, there are about seven hundred thousand cooperatives and mutual associations, with eight hundred million members, seven million workers, 19 billion in assets and 2.5 million in annual gross income. Only in Europe do we have two million social and solidarity economic operators, representing around 10% of all businesses. Following the global trend, many voluntary and informal networks initiatives are being recorded in our country, with the aim either of providing direct material assistance to vulnerable social groups or of providing wider support, with social support at all times. As reflected in a study by the University of Geneva, 20% of voluntary and informal social and economic networks are found in Athens, 9% in the Thessaloniki Region and 42% in the Attica Region. In this context, therefore, the socio-economic environment, the new institutional framework introduced by the draft legislation under discussion introduces, among other things, six major changes. Firstly, the draft law broadens the scope of the social and solidarity economy, in addition to the existing ESCBs, to all the multi-faceted legal entities, regardless of the type or form of legal personality. Therefore, the basic criteria for subsidizing will not be legal, i.e. static, but political and social, i.e. dynamic, in the sense that, as a body of social and solidarity, every legal entity that operates, inter alia, on the basis of the principle of democratic functioning, the priority for the distribution of profits to employees, the development of social benefit actions and the creation of new jobs. Secondly, the bill establishes the extremely important Social Economy Fund. It is a well-known problem of the lack of support for the COMPAs. It was also well known that Mr. Brutsis' announcements in 2014 on the support mechanisms of the COMESC through OAED, when the body in many cases ignored the existence of the COMESC and saw them as business like everyone else. I therefore hope that the Social Economy Fund will be set up within a reasonable period of time and that its funding will be sufficient to support, in essence, those social and solidarity institutions who want to develop productive activity and create new jobs, but they will not have access to the banking system, as most companies in the country now do. Thirdly, the bill introduces the Special Secretariat for Social and Solidarity Economy, which will be supervised by the management and control of the legality of the institutions of the social and solidarity economy. It is indeed important for there to be effective control in the context of the activities of these bodies, so that speculative or other activities are not concealed, but for real actions to be developed to meet collective and social needs through effective forms of social solidarity. Fourthly, the draft law facilitates public cooperation with social and solidarity economic operators, in particular with regard to the exploitation of untapped assets of the local government bodies. And that's very important. It is obvious that the use of public property should have as a primary objective the public interest and the widest possible social benefit. This objective seems to me to be achieved in full with the proposed arrangements. Fifthly, the bill introduces the Workers' Cooperative, an institution which is already in place in many European countries. This is an important legal instrument, which will enable both the workers of bankrupt enterprises - which, unfortunately, we have several in our country - and young people and young people who do not want to get out in order to find work, stay in the country and manage to have a decent job. Sixth, and lastly, the draft law rationalises and enhances transparency in the functioning of the existing ESCBs. In particular, a restriction is introduced to the public money input into a COMP in order to avoid the creation of state-owned enterprises or the development of client-private relationships. A register of such bodies shall be established, allowing for greater control and transparency of their data and restrictions on membership of more than one ESDP with the same object of activity, in order to avoid the exploitation of the privileges of membership. All of this, of course, so as not to take advantage of the NPCI law, on the social and solidarity economy. In addition, vulnerable groups such as victims of domestic violence, people with disabilities, long-term unemployed - over fifty years of age - and refugees or asylum seekers can now participate in the COMES. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the bet here is not to let social and solidarity economic operators become a charity of solidarity, which will offer pity and comfort and not rights and opportunities for participatory democracy and the mobilisation of social forces. The bet is the social and solidarity economy to be an attempt to restore the moral sphere and social objectives of the operation of the economy, to be a powerful mechanism through which our poorest and vulnerable citizens will gain greater and better control over the goods produced and participate in decisions affecting their own lives. I am convinced that this bill wins this difficult bet for the benefit of our country, economy and vulnerable people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u135	Mrs Vayonakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that our colleagues in the counter-population are squeezing us in order to divert the debate to other atrocities, we will not follow you because today's bill is very important for productive reconstruction and for the lives of the citizens. But I would like to make a comment. The so-called supporters of the independent justice of the New Democracy, having failed to respond to your constitutional duty to date - I hope that you will have a different position - since you are talking about supposedly unconstitutionality of the Pappa law, as it is said, do you not expect at least the view of the Council of State? Near psalm of each other! Let us finally leave justice to breathe and act unreservedly and without political intervention. I'll come to the bill. The social economy is not just a third distinct sector of the economy, which did not benefit from growth in Greece, but is an unexplored land and an important tool to improve the position of social groups tested by the crisis, while at the same time it can create an economic environment for emancipation and safe labour, alleviating social inequalities and high-quality products and services. In addition, it can also be exploited by the highly trained and affected youth unemployment in the country as a vehicle to create productive schemes. This was recognised by all parties in the debate on the bill in the committee responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill reveals the Government's intention to implement a real social policy next to the unemployed, the socially excluded, people with disabilities, as it enables them to seek unemployment without discrimination, inequalities or bureaucratic obstacles through cooperative schemes but requiring a stable institutional and economic environment capable of supporting every effort. To date, despite the fact that there have been initiatives such as the 2011 Act, the social economy has not developed and has played a suspensive role, of course, apart from the lack of financial instruments, the absence of an integrated institutional framework that will create the conditions for the development of healthy works. Of course, in my opinion, the challenge remains: How do we make the socially excluded, the unemployed, the vulnerable groups react and take advantage of this specific institutional framework? It's hard. There is a lack of information, a lack of fatigue among citizens and a lack of familiarity. So our work does not end with the vote of the bill. On the contrary, it's starting now. It needs information, education for citizens, a fight with social exclusion and, of course, a comprehensive recovery of the economy. However, the fact remains. For the first time, the social and solidarity economy sector is specifically introduced into the Greek legal system, which can act as a body for productive reconstruction. This bill must be dealt with in conjunction with other legislative initiatives by the Government, such as development law, reorganisation of agricultural cooperatives, planned establishment of information and promotion centres in each region. They are movements that can function proliferationally for the benefit of the economy and work. Let us not forget that in Greece we have far less than 1% of this sector produces, while in other countries it reaches and exceeds 10% of GDP. I would, however, like to refer specifically to certain aspects of the bill, such as the Social Economy Fund, which will consist of resources from national, Community and private investment, and which will support social economy operators that are engaged in productive activities and do not have access to the banking system. Unfortunately, millions of actions with zero results have been allocated over the past few decades. By establishing the Social Economy Fund, we will gather resources that can - and should - be used by setting up structures that will be followed up. At the same wavelength, although it takes time and specialisation, we need to look at incentives, insurance and taxation, which will strengthen the operation of social enterprises, particularly in the first transitional period. Ladies and gentlemen, the law under discussion also strengthens transparency in the functioning of the COMMDs. For example, I refer to the proportion of workers and non-members, as non-members do not exceed 40% in order to avoid the phenomenon of the setting-up of a JEP as an employment office. Also, a member of an ESDP may not be a member of another with similar activities, and the proportion of the gross income of an ESDP derived from public money which must not exceed 65% of its revenue in order to avoid State-owned enterprises. At the same time, the scope of the COMMDs, which now include special groups, victims of domestic violence, long-term unemployed over the age of fifty, young people under the age of twenty-five years, refugees, asylum seekers, SMEs, dependent persons, disembarked persons, prisoners and deported minors to support their integration into economic and social life, are being expanded. The Act also forms a transparent framework for public cooperation with social economy actors, allowing the use of the first and second grades of property or public and social security bodies, as well as facilitating their cooperation with the study and implementation of projects and programmes for the provision of social benefit services. The bill also introduces a new legal person, the Workers' Cooperative, i.e. the cooperative partnership of at least three natural persons for the purpose of biopolitics. This new legal person can be used by workers in bankrupt or in difficulty, by small or individual enterprises, by young people who are unable to join the labour market, but want to stay in the country and work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In order to facilitate all of this, resources of EUR 157 million have been provided, which will be allocated in the next period to support this sector. The law also provides for the establishment of a Special Secretariat for Social Economy - and here I would like to say a word - which coordinates the implementation and implementation of government policy, gathers competences, supervises, cooperates with international organisations and collects European practices. I consider it absolutely essential that this special secretariat should be created, because I think that people need experts to lean on this issue. There is no question of 'our own children', as many colleagues have already said. In addition, this special secretariat will be provided either by some transfers or through ASPs. So let us not discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u137	Please complete, Mrs. Vagonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u138	Finally, I would like to say that this law lays the foundations and we must support it. We must point out inadequacies and strengthen the positive points. The economy also needs it, but society needs it, most importantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Vagonakis. We will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Solidarity, Mr. Theanos Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now taking the floor to clarify things that are particularly heard - and I have heard them many times as long as I am here - about poverty structures. I would like to say a few words about the Roma Special Secretariat - tomorrow I intend to develop the Roma Special Secretariat in more detail - after saying about poverty structures. Ladies and gentlemen, poverty structures were founded with the old NSRF, with the NSRF 2007-2013, and there were a total of sixty-two municipalities - keep this - of the three hundred twenty-five. In sixty-two municipalities there were two hundred fifty-six structures in total. These ended in September 2015 and then our government, knowing that the beneficiaries could not stay uncovered, extended their operation with money from the state budget. Not from the NRP, from which they were paid until that time, but from the state budget. At the same time, we designed the new ESRB, because, as you know, the previous ones had left us nothing on the ESRB, while they had to have planned it much earlier, as they knew it would end in 2013. When an ESRB officially expires in 2013, the government plans the next one until it starts operating on extensions. We didn't receive anything! Instead, we fully planned it. So let us see, ladies and gentlemen, what we have designed in terms of what is now being implemented. Because, with all the planning we have done, the new NRP has already gone to the regions and municipalities with regulations and all set and with seminars that we have done in all municipalities, to make it all fast, to create, that is, the continuation of the old situation with the new situation and not to find the beneficiaries on the one hand and the workers on the other - because, of course, we are interested in the way. So let's see what we did. In the new ESRB we built four hundred seventy-seven structures, two hundred fifty-four community centres and twoteen poverty structures. I repeat four hundred seventy structures, divided into the two hundred sixty municipalities in the country, compared with the sixty-six that had been prevented and taken. That's the big difference! That one ESRB is spread across the country and that there are no municipalities that have no structures. The previous had only sixty six municipalities! To get to know each other! How many jobs do we predict? We anticipate a thousand four hundred! How many structures are operating today? Today, forty-seven municipalities, two hundred four and fifty, eight hundred employees are employed. For these workers we disbursed 15 million of the welfare state budget, which had no money to keep until now. Now they're starting to be proclaimed. As regards what we have done further, I will submit to the Minutes all the annexes, because there is another specic that is being done, that those who are today in poverty structures do not mobilise them and that they are in danger of being left out. And yesterday, at a meeting we had, I told them the same thing, but also today, from the House, so that this continuing misinformation does not exist. We have now found seven hundred fifty, eight hundred young people - who, of course, have the anguish of their work - and we are cultivating on them? And we're not ashamed? As a Parliament, aren't we ashamed to do this work in here? I shall therefore submit to the Minutes all the annex that comes into all the calls that come out of the regions. This is the annex that comes from the Attica region's invitation - there are, respectively, all over the country - and it says that they are compulsory. I read, for the removal of any misunderstanding: ‘During unemployment: 100 points for the first four months of unemployment and twenty-five points for an additional per month of unemployment from the fifth month to the 12 months’. Why did we do that? All workers in poverty structures with this moleculosis come above the unemployed. Why is that? Because, obviously, we want to take advantage of their experience. So I see now that PASOK has tabled an amendment with the same moleculosis, which exists...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u141	You testify to it in law. I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u142	Wait, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, I'm not saying anything against you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u143	If you agree, I'm not against you either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u144	I say that you have tabled an amendment to the exact same modulations, which is why I am tabling them in the Minutes, which we have taken all over Greece. I know it's the excuse - and I'll say it tomorrow - that he wanted a law. He didn't want a law. We have a concrete assent from the AACC and there is no such need. However, I have no problem voting and pluralising over-exceeding and over-exceeding. I don't have a problem. You know me that I'm not standing on them. But not so. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Theano Folios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Secondly, I will speak tomorrow about the Roma Special Secretariat. But I would like to say two words, ladies and gentlemen. You all know the situation of the Greek Roma. You all know that all policies have failed to date, that they are a hundred and fifty thousand people and I want to know if the parties are interested in the Roma or not. I need to know if, in the end, those who say what they say are interested in having all policies failed. I want to know if the strategy, the national mechanism for the social integration and cohesion strategy, which we submitted and adopted in 2015... [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Just a minute and I'll be done. You know very well all the wings that this is conditionality, that is to say it is Greece's obligation to respect this mechanism for disbursing the Roma from the NRP and to implement it. You also know that in there it is clearly said that no action for the Roma will be financed anymore if we do not have synergies from many ministries, which defines them as instruments for the national strategy. What instrument do you want to do that? So what kind of instrument do you want, since it has to coordinate ministries? It's the Roma Special Secretariat. There is no other way of coordinating ministries. Those who do not vote for the Roma Special Secretariat, let me tell you that you do not see how the money will come from the European Union for the Roma. You want to leave them uncovered. One of the prisoners. Secondly, do you insist that this is a Syrian mechanism, one is the involvement of the SYRIZA, the position of the special secretary? You know very well that all the others, ten people, ten all and all in two sections are based on transfers or movements from the public sector and from the wider public sector. So who are we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u145	Please complete, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u146	A single euro is not charged to the state with the Roma Special Secretariat. Now on how to get the special secretariat, and so on, I'll develop it tomorrow. But now let us consider whether or not we want to help the Roma, the 50 000 Roma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although we are discussing an extremely important bill, and despite the fact that the Civic Opposition and the other opposition parties seem to be facing it positively, despite this, Members of Parliament, both of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, have heard talk over and above the contents of the bill. So what was heard by the Members of Parliament, particularly the New Democracy and the PASOK, is, I would say, part of the fight against retardants, which gives the well-known interoperable system, mainly on the occasion of the competition for television frequencies, but also on the occasion, I would say, of the stabilizing syndrome that holds you, ladies and gentlemen of the counter-population, for the lost Eden of governance. Let's come to the bill. In addition to the economic activity carried out in the field of the public sector and the private initiative, which constitute two of the pillars of the economy, development process and activity can be initiated and developed in a different, cooperative, participatory and social law in the field of social solidarity, which is also the third pillar of the economy. In the environment of globalisation and the memoranda, through the dominating neoliberalism, the elements of the extreme and arbitrary logic of the market economy are emerged. In the same environment, the social solidarity economy is the vehicle for counteracting and, at the same time, complements or complements the public sector and private initiative. The policy of the third memorandum by the government, in a way that I would say, necessarily, requires it to promote and promote compensatory policies and policies that are contrary to neoliberal logic. In this context as well as in the perspective of another socio-economic model, the social solidarity economy can operate autonomously, democratically, collaboratively and with a view to the public and social interest, and also be a competitor to other forms of economic and business activity. Ladies and gentlemen, the current draft law aspires to be a tool not to exert a mere perimeter policy in the context of economic activity and development, but to be an equal policy with the public sector and private initiative. I would say that the bill is an original approach to the social economy. Its central objective is to create a stable environment that can strengthen productive self-organisation and self-control operations so that they can make a significant contribution to the country's GDP, as is the case in other countries. The creation of such a stable environment will be achieved by developing cooperative structures and social economy structures in all sectors of the economy. This bill as a social and solidarity economy is defined as all economic activities based on an alternative form of organisation of production, distribution, consumption and reinvestment relationships. This corresponds to another way of organising its agencies. The social solidarity economy is based on the principles of democracy and democratic decision-making as well as participation and in addition to equality and, respectively, the fight against social inequalities, solidarity, cooperation and respect for human dignity and the sustainability of the natural environment. Collaborative production units and structures of social solidarity, in order to be subject to the arrangements of the bill, operate in the areas of social and solidarity economy, implement a democratic decision-making system, according to the principle: 'one member, one vote'. They do not prioritise maximisation and individual specificity of profit and apply restrictions on profit distribution by reinvesting part of them in activities that promote collective and social benefit. Finally, they ensure convergence in wages by applying a pay system for participants, where the maximum pay does not exceed the minimum. They aim at horizontal and equal networking, through the creation of networks, with a view to strengthening economic activities and maximising the benefit generated. It follows from all this that the social solidarity economy is characterised, as proposed in the bill, by two basic principles and priorities. Firstly, the social objective of economic activity pursued, which is determined by the fact that profit is not its direct objective, such as private actions, but serves qualitatively different, broader objectives. The second principle is solidarity among people working together, aiming to meet social needs, which cannot be met by the state and private initiative and further, through job creation, to maintain and strengthen social cohesion, particularly under current crisis conditions. The forms of organisation and operation of the social solidarity economy are differentiated from the strict hierarchical forms of organisation and operation of private units. They are based on democratic planning, democratic decision-making processes, on the level of organisation, on the work and administration of the body to which they are provided, and on the acquisition of equal and slightly differentiated incomes, as well as on the limited distribution of profits. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill sets out a process at the core of which to meet social needs is to be found by introducing a different pattern of organisation of production and distribution of its profits. In this context, government initiatives to promote the social solidarity economy are defined by specific axes, such as institutional changes, through which the previous law is revised, the development of support structures for social solidarity institutions, the financial support for the relevant efforts, information and dissemination of practices with various actions. The creation of a strong social solidarity sector will be a factor in stepping up the role of work and strengthening democratic institutions. The objective of socially just production conversion cannot be based solely on the non-mobile state or on the private initiative. In this context, and also in the perspective of another socio-economic model, the social solidarity economy can operate autonomously, democratically, collaboratively, participatoryly and with a view to the public and social interest. In addition, it should be a compass for other forms of economic activity. The social solidarity economy as a vehicle for triggering and strengthening society and not a substitutable social state, which is the responsibility and responsibility of the state, can and must be reflected in the great opportunity to contribute to the transformation of fragmented social creation in order to lead to the collective upswing of society. This change will be carried out by active citizens, active society, through the development of comparative advantages and the potential of our place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. Mrs Karasarlidou euphoria has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. I welcome the bill we are debating here today in plenary on the social and solidarity economy. This is a bill necessary, which focuses on a third sector of the economy and is trying to create an umbrella of protection for initiatives that are attempting to look at the social interest and not always and certainly only to expand profitability. He is trying to lay rules and provide protection in this new way of economic organization, shielding him against an extremely unstable and uncertain international environment. In other words, it creates a framework that is transparent and solid, which can in practice support the development of productive projects aimed at producing products or providing services, which are either not offered or offered sufficiently by the private and public sectors, the biopolitics of those producing products or offering these services and the creation of new jobs. Of course, he is also trying to ensure democratic functioning and combat social inequalities. This bill is important because it emphasises the social dimension of the economy. The crisis has brought more to the fore the need to strengthen such projects. Today, in our country, the increase in unemployment and the inability to find work leads to more and more unemployed in the cooperative economy. So, having as the basis of the real needs of the citizens, we must beside the economy to add the term'social', because the architecture of the economy, which has been founded to improve conditions in people's lives and to forge social cohesion, has become an anti-social, self-reporting force that alters politics, creates inequalities, prolongs contradictions and causes uncertainties for the citizens. You are constantly talking about growth, growth, growth of an economic model that meets its contradictions and is constantly producing new crises. So, within it, the regularity of the negligence we live comes a bill, which will clearly not overthrow this hegemony of the anti-social economy, but will create possibilities and open up spaces where different economic models, based on the principle of mutual benefit, can flourish. The characteristics of the social and solidarity economy, according to international experience, make it a privileged body for productive reconstruction, especially in the difficult economic conditions we are experiencing today. Why? Because he can mobilize and exploit social forces in a creative perspective. Societies have long been ahead of us. Groups of farmers and producers are organised underneath to give other quality products to consumers. Citizens are trying to organize themselves in horizontal shapes, to create tanks of knowledge and exchange of practice with their eyes, however, focused on society. All recent social innovations, such as fair trade, micro-credit and social cooperatives, have been based on this principle: the principle of mutual profit. This bill is the necessary institutional coverage for all these initiatives, which I am sure will fruit and give a new breath to our country. I therefore welcome it with great satisfaction and personally declare that I, too, will become his ambassador to my place, the Imathia Prefecture, which is also affected by the earlier dead-end economic models. I want to mention an example from my place, the Imathia Prefecture. I would like to mention the example of 'ENKO'. The facilities, which have remained for years untapped, are at risk of becoming screws and rotten sheet, while at the same time there has been an extremely intense and real concern on the part of workers. Their knowledge only and their availability for creativity and innovation can lead to strengthening and development and local society, but not just local ones. This is an undertaking that this government has been trying not only to support but mainly to give a definitive solution at last. With a vehicle, then, this new law and the opportunities it opens, I hope that we can create new jobs on economic models more stable, sustainable and socially beneficial. We must inform the world about the deadlocks of the predominant economic models, stop managing the damage caused by previous policies and proceed with small, but stable steps in the transition phase. I therefore welcome the initiative of this hopeful bill in the world over Imathia. I believe that we all need to launch a communication campaign to inform all the relevant actors on the issue of the social and solidarity economy, the opportunities it has and the opportunities it offers. That's what I'll do personally. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I would like a minute, Mr President, on a matter that does not concern the bill. Because in the most glamorous way when the debate started here in plenary, the spokesman of the New Democracy expressed her concern about whether there would be a follow-up to various social structures and because the representative of the Democratic Incorporation almost insulted the Minister because he is using the ELTAs, to serve what purposes and because both parties, if I remember well, owe more than 600 million, and because these 600 million have been subsidized by all these citizens, who are today socially and economically weak, I would like to propose something to you and I think that you have a political displacement to transfer it to both your Presidents and your parliamentary groups. We SYRIZA MPs, so that our party does not owe and make a fund for solidarity, we give... [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr. Kegeroglu, you keep talking. Your rudeness is deep.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u151	Please! You're short, Mrs. Karasarlidou. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u152	So we SYRIZA MPs give 40% of our parliamentary compensation in order to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u153	Sit at your offices and make suggestions!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u154	Where do you get that conclusion from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u155	It's a disgrace to you! It's a shame to interrupt and say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u156	To suggest to your colleagues, not to the Members. Make suggestions to your party!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Bukkaro, you'll have the floor in a minute. Hang on for later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u158	Because you're afraid of getting out of your house, you're saying we're not going anywhere?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u159	Carry on, Mrs. Karasarlidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u160	I want to say two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u161	Here, finish, say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u162	But they're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u163	Say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u164	I'm done with this. I think the right thing is to find a way to help you return this money as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Socrates Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, will you give me the floor later on for the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u167	You'll tell it all together later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u168	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u169	...to gather a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u170	Come on, Mr. Vardakis, get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. God willing and permitted by Mrs Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u172	Mercy. We want to hear from my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, while you are using this propaganda step, taking the spoon from the intermittent media - you will hear it - not only do not do your duty, as you are due, but you are creating real problems, incomprehensibly, with very negative consequences. I am making this report, Mr President, because many of my fellow Members - especially from New Democracy - today, instead of discussing a very serious draft law that is consistent with productive reconstruction, we have heard about television licences once again, development law, education and health. We were insulted on other issues, and some even said we'd leave. Who are they, Mr President? They are the ones who really - and all the Greek people know - dismantled all the concepts of law in that country. Mr. Mitsotakis' last attempt was to tell us what? That SYRIZA is responsible for the mistakes, omissions - and I use mild terms - the purposes in 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014. That is what Mr Mitsotakis told us earlier. He probably didn't read what they wrote him to say or he wanted to say something else. Leaving, he didn't tell us who the bad guys are, so we could draw the conclusions on what he wanted to tell us. Mr. Mitsotakis, I want to tell you that from the ashes and the atrocities you created, we're trying to get out today. We are trying to get society out of the crisis and the deadlock you have created. So stop playing a really shameful theatre of irrationality, because you are playing it in the back of the Greek people, a proud Greek people, who you have oppressed in previous years. Let me tell you something, I've said it another time. Realize that you will warm up these counterpopulation benches for many more years. Ladies and gentlemen, today the institution of the social and solidarity economy is being introduced, an institution that will give genuine optimism to society, which certainly needs it. It is first introduced in a structured and integrated institutional framework and will act as a producer-reconstruction agency. It is no coincidence that so far, although there have been initiatives, the social economy has not developed. It presented a specific framework which would facilitate the development of social economy activities. For our own government, however, ladies and gentlemen, the development of the social and solidarity economy is one of the main priorities. We are setting the foundations for creating an economic environment with benefits for all involved, energising social resources, with great efficiency, in terms of creating safe jobs and developing the country's productive fabric. Citizens will participate in productive activities through self-management and collective social entrepreneurship operations. Young people, and not only, can use the social economy to create productive patterns and develop a series of sustainable and innovative business initiatives. Priority is given to meeting social needs, the aim is to biopoliticise those producing or offering services, rather than to expand profitability, through activities carried out through collective and democratic processes of participation and decision-making. Products will be produced and services not covered by the private and public sectors will be provided, with a view to accessing the members of the local society to them. For this project, we are providing funds of EUR 157 million, which will be allocated in the next period to support areas for the creation of new jobs. In addition, with the planned establishment of regional support centres for the social and solidarity economy, we are developing information and promotion centres in each region, and this is how we deal with the phenomenon of the self-determination of the area. Ladies and gentlemen, at that time the social economy can play an important role both in society and in the economy. We are paving the way for the social economy to accelerate the growth of employment, to work for young people, who, instead of being forced to choose precarious jobs, will have the opportunity to create productive units to increase economic activity and if we freeze the decline in the social state. The social initiative will play a key role in reconstruction, since it will highlight needs and capabilities from society itself. The new law sets good foundations and we must all support them. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in bills of breath, optimism, but above all they create prospects for productive reconstruction, let us be solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Balomemakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the wide-ranging parliamentary acceptance of which the rapporteur of the New Democracy has spoken, and which other party representatives have also supported, reflects the need to introduce this new, in essence, a framework that creates this draft law. In fact, society had long gone beyond legislation. In the context of, and on the occasion of, the crisis, self-indulgingly and with amazing intensity, duration and scope, many and varied forms of social solidarity have been developed, as has already been noted. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, they have not been absent until now. The rapporteur, and I shall refer to her again, said in a reversal of her speech that 'no matter what laws we make, if there is no political will, nothing can be done'. That's right. But this remark must be taken - and of course it is - as self-criticism. It is precisely this political will that reflects the draft law, which is complete to detail. It creates both the surveillance and scientific monitoring contours and, in particular, the necessary conditions for the longevity of this coherent operating framework. With exhaustive regulation and, of course, the necessary support, not only for economic, but also for staff, for horizontal organisation, coordination and utilization of international experiences - which, as we hear, are rich in other states - we can really hope that this will not be neglected and will not become an empty frame. However, we must not lose sight of the need for a considerable effort to take the first steps in the new institutions. Before all, we must get rid of the stereotypes and especially the weights of intolerance. It is not understood that there should be ex ante exclusions, nor should the recipients of the economic outcome of the activity of the mutually beneficial and mutual sectors of the economy be identified on criteria other than by their human existence and by their human quality. I think that a clear and decisive answer should be given on this subject, since there are no fears and disgraceful voices that have been heard here too. It has not been long since the spokesman for the xenophobic and extreme right format expressed primitive fears as well as unfounded fears of a harmful effect on the part of small and medium-sized enterprises and of being able to participate - listen, listen! - even immigrants in these projects. He vanished because our country, by adopting clear European practices, is planning specific regulations - which are included in Articles 37 et seq - on strengthening and working and social inclusion of the Roma. One really is tempted to think about this obsessive commitment of some who are trying - as Mr Sevastakis rightly rightly pointed out - to capitalise reasonable tensions and to experience political problems such as immigration, for which neither she nor any other Greek government can be accountable. I have the impression that the new institutions will also not be without risks of self-interesting. Recently, on the occasion of the discussion on forest cooperatives, a chronic self-interest mechanism was revealed through businesses that had cloaked the co-operative cloak. It was a practice that sought that legislation to end by defining that the others would be purely of the workers. The first approach gives the impression that this legislation provides adequate guarantees for it. Most of all, I believe that it is a clear set of general principles of the operation of this sector of economic activity based on democracy, equality, solidarity, the general principles and practices of healthy cooperation and, of course, full respect for the natural environment and human value. I also call them dilemmas because, of course, many unforeseen issues will arise in the operation of businesses, many of which will be called to solve either the general meetings or even the case law. And here really is the role of supervision. That is its role and not to impose specific models for which we naturally agree that they do not need to be done. And it will really be the best guarantee that this system will long-term and develop. Because of the time I'm going to miss some I've written. I wanted to say that I cannot accept the equatorial criticism made in this plan by the Communist Party. It certainly has the full right to deny the importance, to fight, on the basis of its own view of social development, the bill as well as any other bill or, in general, to say that capitalism cannot be replaced by any other instrument. It will have to reread the bill, because I have not seen that capitalism is being replaced anywhere. What cannot be tolerated is that all our fellow citizens, thousands of our fellow citizens, both left-wing and progressive, of course many members of the Communist Party, who have sent social solidarity structures - and I have noted the phrase of the rapporteur - as class partners in depriving capitalism. We should be careful not to hurt egos and egos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u176	We're talking about you, not about the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u177	It is precisely the phrase that the rapporteur has said. I will conclude with a brief reference to the issue of the days. Firstly, to the rapporteur of the New Democracy - who unfortunately is missing - I will say that the Council of State did not accept the objections of the opponents - as he said - but accepted the appeals, which means that he will now come into the essence, i.e. judging the basis of the arguments. It is a forced procedure and Mrs Vulture, who is an experienced journalist, should have more accurately captured this distinction between the concepts, that is, acceptable and acceptable, which were not at all difficult to achieve. So, then, the treasure's carbon at least at the moment. And one final comment on the brief mention of the President of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis' encouragement to return to the National Broadcasting Council constitutionally guaranteed powers, as he said, which he made as a condition for his party's participation in the reconstitution, is equivalent to this requirement: to join now - while the substantive debate is pending at the Council of State - the Government in the sole argument put forward by the canals, that is to say, the so-called unconstitutionality of the law on competition, an argument which does not find any ground in the law and, in particular, in Article 15. This article, as we have repeatedly explained, distinguishes between direct control, including licensing, a role which exclusively confers on the State, and supervision and sanctions, which are awarded to the National Broadcasting Council. I think everyone can judge the special political weight and the quality of such a argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u178	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u179	I will start by saying two things about the bill that we have come here today to vote on. First the Golden Dawn, of course, and will not vote for this bill because it is a beautiful fairy tale, it is a slice of bread that we give to the afflicted Greeks after everything we have literally stolen from them through their pockets. But of course we're not just talking about the Greeks here. We're talking about the various special groups that say in the bill. These special groups report inside economic migrants. Who are economic migrants in Greece today? Greece is in poverty, suffering. Are there people who have come here to find the economic paradise? Economic migrants, refugees and asylum seekers pending examination of the request for asylum and those with cultural specificities. What individuals with cultural peculiarities can you tell us, because we cannot understand what this thing means. Explain what are people with cultural peculiarities? And because we are saying that we want to help our Greek fellow citizens, we, as Golden Dawn, have brought an amendment that we tabled in due course. This amendment says of the 'Asteras', which was sold out along with all the rest, with ports, airports, seas, waters, with land, with everything in Greece, with the ground and everything that exists and you have not given it. So since this operation has been sold out, there are five hundred, some seventy people, who are at risk of being on the road. We, as Golden Dawn, - I see the Minister is now missing - are bringing an amendment for these people to remain in their positions and under the next ownership regime and for the government to show us whether they are in solidarity with our ordinary Greek fellow citizens who are suffering. This amendment is tabled. We will not claim laurels if it is accepted that it will not naturally be done by you. Because for you it counts above all the complex and the hatred you have against the Golden Dawn. It doesn't matter whether we can do a job and serve some of our afflicted Greek fellow citizens. We therefore call upon these five hundred and seventy people in the company to remain with the new property regime. And since there will be growth and growth, because this is the project that is in existence, this company will grow further, and there will be other jobs to hire other people who will want the new owners. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's see if the government will accept it. And let's go a little on some issues that have been of concern to us over the last few years. 'Cause they're going through some things. Now with the government, with this fairy tale the beauty he found with the licenses of television stations has frightened those who have been taken, tried by others to make pro-government, the situation has stopped and many things are not heard, as in the past, of course, some things that are not right, in their view, and politically correct for them. For the rest of Greece, however, it is. So we saw a jihadist support network in Athens and this fact emerged a few days ago. They had found the plans of the attacks in Brussels and Paris, these people have been here to support them, they have been here to help them and materials and to cover them in other ways, and when the Golden Dawn has been saying these for too long - years we have been telling us that these things are not happening. Everything we said happens. Sadly, for our poor place, everything is happening. So we have seen this network of support and no one is at all concerned with the fact, and we also know that many are in here who want to act with the jihadists and the Greek Government is simply watching without knowing what is going on, not even knowing how many people have entered our borders, how many are on the Greek islands and how many are going through every day. We also saw your democracy and the Prime Minister of the country - because he is the Prime Minister of the country, he is the Prime Minister of all the Greeks - to turn and attack the residents and parents of Oriokastro, Volbes, Lesvos and other regions, because these parents did not want and they do not want their children to go to schools where children of illegal immigrants will come, which are invasive, with a thousand things, and it is not their fault, of course, but you who could behave with humanity at least in this particular area and have vaccinated them. But here we cannot inoculate the Greeks. They're going to have kids vaccinated and the Greek parents have to pay out of their pocket. So how do you promise to inoculate and give health care to these children? And because, then, the parents reacted, you fell upon them to eat them. But you're supposed to represent the Greek people. Isn't that what it's supposed to be? But it's probably only in words, because you represent everyone else except the Greek people. So we saw the Prime Minister go out and say crowns, yelling for racism, for fear among the Greeks, for a thousand two things. But three days ago, the illegal immigrants in Oriokastro came out of the centre where they lived and chased a man, burned his car for an accident that happened, which, unfortunately, occurs daily throughout Greece. I wish, of course, it didn't happen. But the fact that these illegal immigrants came out and leveled them all, burned his car, chased him to lynch him, and the police, the crew of the patrolman who went to hide so that they wouldn't attack him, and the rescuers from the EAW who went there also took the knifes and attacks on what were you doing? And they are not our words, they are words of the people who work and had gone there. But for them no one is doing anything. No one has dealt with this matter, no one has heard the incident. Can we ask the ministers, the Prime Minister, the Government: How many were arrested on that day in Oriokastro for what happened? Because this is where outraged illegal immigrants came out, burned, broken and attacked innocent people. Has anyone been arrested or have these people ever been perpetrated? Do illegal immigrants have the impunity in Greece? No one bothers them, unlike the Greeks you're chasing them every day until you get their property until you get them a home they have until you cut off the electricity? What's going on there? Isn't there humanity? But you are concerned about the interests of all the illegals who have entered our country. You're cut, because you're blessed and why you don't love homeland. We see here the Minister of Education sitting and listening, the Minister of Education who so much hatred and enthusiasm has taken out against our Greek Orthodox religion, which is so fighting and is being cut for religion and neutrality in Greece, not religiously I believe, but for the various illegal immigrants you are being cut off for their religious rights. How is that possible? Are you atheists, or are you antichrists? We need to know what you're doing. Because if you were just atheists, you would not care about the religious rights of illegal immigrants. But you are, unlike the Greek state and the faith of the Greek citizen, who 98%, whether you like it or not, are Christian Orthodox and you want this umbilical cord of our nation to cut him off. We won't allow you to take him out. We will defend ourselves with all the potential of the Golden Dawn. And we also call on the Greek people and the official Church to react to what is happening. Fortunately, there are some exceptions to metropolitans who are fighting against what is happening. We will not allow the religion of our country to fall into your fingernails. You have made a previous speech - and it was heard today in a debate that took place here for a while - on corruption and on complexity. What corruption and complications? There is no more corruption than the corruption that exists in this Chamber. More corruption, more complication than that in the Greek Parliament in recent years, no one has! All the illegitimate laws against Greek citizens have been passed here by overwhelming majority vote, by all of you. All the laws that cover great-working and big-minded people, who have overwhelmed our country, have been passed here, in this Chamber. You give forgiveness to former ministers for scandals, because all of you - and you and the previous ones - have done scandals to the detriment of the Greek people. There is the dreadful law "no responsibility for Ministers", which covers you. So if this isn't corruption, it's not a complication, then what is it? In here is corruption and complication. So, let's tell you, so that we don't get played by lazy men, that you, we're in here and we're getting 7,000 and 7,500 a month, we're going to decide for some of our fellow citizens that they're gonna get 451 euros. Who are you to decide that? So bring a law to the Greek Parliament - the Golden Dawn proposes, we will vote directly - the Members' salary to go to 700 euros and see how many of you will stand to continue and come and make the Members. But it is not possible for you who take 7,500 and live happy life to tell the other that he will stay with 450 and then tell us that you are being cut for his own good! Who are you working for? Who are you kidding? According to EUROSTAT figures, three million eight hundred thousand Greeks live in the limits of poverty, and you here dare talk? Do you dare talk? You have done four million Greeks, with official figures - because there is a much larger proportion of Greeks who are poor - to live below the poverty line. And you're telling us here that you're fighting for the Greek citizen? But aren't you embarrassed? Aren't you ashamed? Only for illegal immigrants are you cut. I have said this and I will say it again, any bill that comes into the Greek Parliament must have the approval of Germans and international loan sharks, otherwise there is no Greek Parliament. You're only trustees who have bent your head and did what you're told. You'd like to react. You used to say it when you were opposition. But when you sat on the chairs, you didn't even dare look them in the eye. There is also a denial of an opposing opinion in Greece. Anyone who dares to say something other than what you say is doomed. We saw it happen with the parents - I repeat - we saw it done with various metropolitans who dared - hear what the metropolitan did - to defend Orthodoxy and Christianity. Metropolitan crime! He mustn't say those things. The metropolitan must be out of the way and let you perish! We have seen recently in a newspaper, at the 'FOD', take them from a section of anti-racist violence and racist propaganda - such - monthly reports of articles written by this newspaper. And in those articles he didn't swear. He was talking about some incidents that have occurred. For masonry, he said in, like, seismism, about something like that kind of tricks about some of you involved in some kind of staircases. Something like that was written in the paper. And you want them to squeeze them and drag them with handcuffs, as you had dragged the MPs and the Chief of the Golden Dawn before. But it's not going through you. Do what you think. And metropolitans you've gone to terrorize and some, maybe, you're doing it. But there is a large part of the Greek people who are not afraid of you. He sees you just and laughs. You should know that. The democratic conquests of the Greeks, said the Chief of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, should not be lost. It is being cut off for the democratic conquests and for these unacceptable, obviously, which have happened these days. But he himself is the leader of a party that sent elected MPs to the bars three years ago, with no evidence against them, just because they were Members of the Golden Dawn. There was no personal data, there was no democracy, there was nothing there. There, you were all in the hug. And now you were all embraced in this particular matter. So he told us that he must - I repeat - save the democratic conquests of the Greeks. Tell us, is it a democratic conquest that they're looking for garbage to eat? Is that the democratic right you have guaranteed them? Is it a democratic right to cut off their electricity? Is that a democratic right? Is that it? Well, you're a corrupt sponge, unwilling. Legislation is based only on the interests of Europeans and your staff, and this must in any case be over. The Greek people must raise their heads and react. You're scared of little people. Some of you are ideologists of Marxists and left, and that's why you're doing all this. It's in your ideology and in your skin. But there are too many who are not Marxists - and fortunately - but, unfortunately, they too are afraid people who see the crimes they do, who see the disgrace they do at the expense of the Greek people, but who do not have the courage to demand their personality and say they refuse to do so. You must react, otherwise what will remain on all of you in here will be the eternal outcry of the Greeks. And one last thing to finish. Tell us how you know everything and are being cut in the interests of the Greeks, how is it possible for Greece to be in a terrible recession about six, seven years ago, how is it possible to get rid of the Greek people, take everything, pay tax, pay interest, have literally bleed, and Greece's debt is growing, instead of falling? This shows you don't have any programs. This shows that you all continue on the same denominator you have. And this game won't end for anyone's good. Unfortunately, that is the reality. So let one of you explain - by the Finance Ministers, by various technocrats - how is it possible for the Greeks to pay six years everything and the debt of Greece to have grown up? And what's the horizon you see? When is this gonna stop? Never. But on this, you have stepped on to level the Greek not only in his daily life but also in order to sell everything out: ports, airports and, above all, human consciences. You want them to bend their heads and bow down to you. They won't give in to you. And Golden Dawn will be front in this race.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Standing Committee of the Regions, as well as the Subcommittee on Islands and Mountains of the Special Standing Committee of the Regions, are tabling their reports in accordance with Rule 43a(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The relevant reports will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Lazarides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the social cooperative economy has been developing strongly in recent years and it seems to be a golden reserve in the fight against the economic and social crisis, in fact in a period of prolonged crisis. This bill introduces a different model of organisation of production, with as a fundamental principle collectiveness, which we expect to contribute to the creation of new jobs, as well as to the development of GDP. The increase in the participation of cooperative organisations in the development of the Greek economy is seen by this legislative proposal as a prerequisite for this purpose, for the creation of a stable environment for the social economy and its needs. In the context that is being created, then, the social economy will be an alternative form of economy, which will be called upon to develop new productive relations for our fellow citizens, aimed at a decentralised society, in the form of new cooperative exploitation partnerships, through which they will be able to survive in the new requirements of times and develop. They are, therefore, promoted and supported by appropriate financial instruments synergies and interconnection between operators and networks of citizens for activities that are developed either within the market economy, always aimed at the typical market, or at socially-oriented, direct participation, personal action and collective activation. With the new draft law on social and solidarity economics and the development of its institutions, it seeks to increase the participation of cooperative organisations in the development of the Greek economy, considering it as a prerequisite for achieving this objective to create a stable environment, which can actively support the development of productive cooperative ventures. The rules on how social and solidarity economic operators should operate can therefore provide tools for their development as productive units that promote sustainable development and decent work and promote economic cooperation between them. Simplify the procedures for setting up CALO operators - Social and Solidarity Economy - by making the CALO operator register, as they will be established in the future through one stop-by electronic services. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] With a view to simplifying the business environment, the COMESC is not an exception to the rule that all commercial undertakings wish to be registered in the General Commercial Register. The General Economic Register, as well as the GFCM, are becoming public and transparent bodies to monitor the process of growth and change of the company, while the COMESC ensures that the intentions and events of the company are made public, with a view to informing the society as a whole about its beneficial social work, as well as encouraging society to actively participate in the fulfilment of the social objectives of the company. One of the most important provisions is the establishment of the Social Economy Fund by means of national and Community funds, with the Fund supporting those who do not have access to the banking system. Ladies and gentlemen, the social and solidarity economy can be a real alternative, creating a large number of new jobs and social relations on the basis of justice, redistribution of wealth, reciprocity and social cohesion. Since the cooperative creates the appropriate structure and organization, it can make it at the last stages of the product available. This will have a positive effect both on the producer and on the consumer. We also have a unique opportunity to show that this is not just a solidarity management of the consequences of the crisis, but a search for a better cooperative economy, which can also be the basis of a new, sustainable Greek economy. Minister, we welcome all these improvements which you have made, because it is in the right direction and shows that the dialogue we are having here is a real, fertile dialogue and take into account what we are proposing to you. The Independent Greeks support the Ministry of Labour bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much Mr George Lazaridis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. We're on the list. Mr Nikolaos Manios, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u183	This excessive tone of dictatorship, junta, para-state, etc. Don't repeat him all the time, because they wake us up and we're going to hide again and we're going to start a guerrilla war. For Christ's sake! I don't remember the age I've reached - I don't tell her, you all know her - that there has ever been a period of more comfortable movement and speech. If we consider the immunity of television stations to be twenty-seven years, then we are in different directions and have different perceptions. If democracy is to make these stations come out and falsify reasons and works of people - and it was not just against us, it was once against other parties - we disagree. Another thing is democracy. Democracy has rules. Only in Greece democracy means that anyone who can steal is stealing. There was that proverb that said: "Can you steal? Steal! Can you hide? Sit where you're sitting!' So until now, you have learned that you could steal and hide. Not to hide it, but to take it out or make huge pharaonic villas and show that they came out of some wages and so on. Let's get a little over here. This is the aim of the legislative effort that has been broadly supported, I would say, if we compare it to the previous ones - acceptance by the parties. I'd like not to focus on the details of the law, but to get into a subject that seems to be a little theoretical, but it's not theoretical at all. We have capitalism. Can anyone deny that? Oh, no. Capitalism is born to exploit man. But come on, that capitalism, having a prehistoric history and four hundred years ago by the French Revolution that the bourgeoisie took power, has its tops and its bottoms. Capitalism had women go to learn letters. Capitalism gave the elections. Capitalism gave some things when it was pressed or when it was needed. Now what does capitalism do? It impoverishes societies and causes overconcentration of wealth, to the extent that capitalism itself will erupt. And we don't know what's going to happen. A well-known Canadian economist said that we will experience this phenomenon: a social system, such as capitalism, is to be overturned by the same social system that capitalism will be again. What are we going to do? There has been an earlier legislature, and we are now legislating. Let's move between the rams, the cracks that this capitalism has, because it's cracked, it's not solid and invincible. If we admit that there is nothing we can do in society that will not be directly overthrowing capitalism, it is like surrendering unconditionally. Capitalism has its positive effects: some will find jobs, some will grow GDP, etc. It has another, much more positive one that we do not comment on: it makes society aware of the spirit of cooperation, because one of the great evils of capitalism is atomicism and competitiveness, one eating one another, the big fish eats the little. Collaborative ideology is on a different path. It does not mean that a law on social and solidarity economy will bring capitalism. These are preoccupied thoughts. It shows, however, models for the organisation of society, which we must put forward, believe them, create them, because if ever and when capitalism comes, it will have another perception. Because we're not born in vacantness. There have been revolutions that established socialism. But he did not have all the mesh, all the structures, all the institutions that socialism had to have, to prosper and dominate the whole world. It's a long talk and we don't do it in general and we don't do it in vague terms. We do it because it's a sign of writing, the concept of the social economy. I dare say that when solidarity movements began in the crisis - social medicine, social pharmacies and so forth - many friends and partners said that this is a Christian concept of charity. The answer is that it is necessary. Society is being organized and must be saved from disaster. The main thing is that these solidarity structures show another logical formation. It is not of the type, 'I am building a regional doctorate and I am defining from the central authority all the rules of administration', but from society itself this institution is being built, which trains people to have to participate. It is not the assignment, "Let the state build the hospital, let the state run it, and let it be rich enough what it offers us". Oh, no. And economic crisis must not have, we must be trained, we must understand the necessity that we are obliged to be citizens - not as left-wing citizens and right-wing citizens, but as citizens - to put our hand, our thinking and our action in the functioning of a hospital. Can you imagine if in this crisis we are living in, the citizens were even more entangled in dealing with that logic? Why don't you tell me that this crisis is bigger now than it was in 1942 and 1943. No, of course not. Then what did the citizens do? They left the band largely their ideological and political differences and organized and saved the people from destruction and hunger [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This thing, if we could bring it forward now and figure out that everyone is looking at itself, because we are victims of capitalist ideology and we must become social beings, as we live in societies, then things would be better and we would not do thanks to the capitalists, but we would be worried about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u184	Thank you Mr Nikolao Manios, MP of SYRIZA. Next, Mr. Simeon Ballis, like SYRIZA MEP, and then he is Mr. Bukouros MEP of the New Democracy. Here, Mr Ballis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a little while ago, I think, caused a reasonable irritation in part of the coup d'état, the references made by my colleague Mrs Karasarlidou, to the need for transparency in the parties' finances. This irritation was either because it reminded the truth that depending on how you house your home, you will also house the state when you are a government, or because it reminded us that coordinated efforts on all sides of anti-population fall to dismantle the moral advantage that mainly in this area, economic transparency, has the Left. Don't try anymore. You won't make it. These efforts to degrade will not have any hope, as there will be no hope in verifying the predictions that I have heard earlier from speakers from Officerial Reconciliation, that this government, as you say, falls away, collects, messes up, messes up and leaves. Foreseements which, to paraphrase a phrase of Galbraith, are the only value they have is to make the astrology credible. I would like to say a few things about the bill we are discussing on the social and solidarity economy. This draft law attempts to create an innovation in the organisation of the new forms of economy and the organisation of business entities that have emerged not only in response to the effects of the economic crisis, but also in the need to find alternative forms against the problem today model of organisation of production. This is an alternative model, which works counterprogressively in today's dominant model but also corrective in many cases and in many of the provisions of the previous relevant law, Law 4019/2011. With this bill, which concerns the organisation and development of the social solidarity, it is, in contrast to the prevailing model of today's society, that, firstly, the pursuit of collective benefit against individual gains on a non-discriminatory basis among the members of the new businesses, secondly, the service of social interests instead of commodity logic, thirdly, the involvement of local society in the policy of the new cooperative effort by means of continuous consultation and social control, and fourthly, the democratic functioning of the decision-making process, the distribution of profits and the reinvestment aimed at creating new jobs. We know, of course, that today two are the dominant perceptions of the functioning of the economy: Or everything depends on the market with Utopia that alone it can regulate the distortions that are caused - and we have seen where this utopian view of the state leads - or we are putting the state completely masters in the design, coordination, organization of the economy. Among these two dominant views, over the last few decades, intermediate views have also been developed mainly at the level of European social democracy, but without questioning this dominant model, their dominant logic. Today, however, there is more and more evidence of the weakness of both of these perceptions to give answers and solutions. With this bill, we support the fact that there is also a third pole that places emphasis on society itself and on the possibilities of organising it on the basis of its needs, not as an additional version of the dominant model, not to pave the holes that the market leaves, nor to cover the gaps that a state gradually retreats from its own obligations and responsibilities, particularly from social welfare. It is a new path, and that is why it is difficult, even to agree fully on what social solidarity is. It is, however, a hope for answers that are needed now that tested economic models are collapsed and collapsed by drifting societies as well. Speaking of the social economy, it is not just the economic view that we should have in mind. We need to think about the role that the economy can play in social life, namely how the economy will become part of social life. Contrary to the previous Act of 2011, this new law does not aspire to act as a valve to dismantle the pressure caused by the crisis or as a facility to absorb Community resources, as was done above all by Law 4019, but also as a means to pass public goods and services on to the private sector. It can't be and there shouldn't be such a logic. The new law goes beyond the setting-up and operation of the COMPAs, allowing the recognition of functions to other legal entities, provided that their function is governed by the principles of the social economy, such as democratic function, one vote member, and the restriction on the distribution of profits. I would like to focus on a particular chapter in the new law, on the provision for the cooperation of social economy actors with the OTAs and the wider public sector, by granting the use of slow assets to both OTAs or the general public, and the possibility of contracts and the provision of social benefit services. At this point, Minister, I would like to stress the need to obtain the necessary provisions to avoid the development of customer relations as a result of the development of the TAs and their mechanisms in the functioning of the social economy. Furthermore, the scope of these contracts with municipalities cannot be for services which have a purely self-government or public character, such as cleanliness, or extend this scope of cooperation to purely self-government structures. The substitution of self-government services to the public must be excluded from the provision of services through any cooperative activity that may hide wicked thoughts in some of the gradual transfer of services to the private sector. With today's legislative improvement - I would like to mention the young unemployed, the under 25 - which the Minister presented to us this morning, there is special care to help the unemployed to work - but especially for the unemployed - since this improvement is now being dealt with as a special group. There was no original plan. There is the same designation in Law 4019. I would like to point out that we need to prevent a possible temptation to deal with unemployment by means of measures of a certain kind of probative nature. By limiting the political response to unemployment, employment policies must have the political dimension of tackling the phenomenon, due to the way and structure of the production of the current organization and functioning of the economy as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Simeon Ballis, SYRIZA MP. Mr Christos Bukokouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, a bill, which was broadly agreed, was summarised by the facts and by what has been heard in the Chamber today on a very important and topical subject, such as the licensing of channels and the decisions of the Council of State. The interventions of two Ministers - and more specifically of the Minister for Labour, Mr Katrugalou and Mr Pappa - have given rise to particular impression. I am beginning with Mr Pappa, who, in reply to Mr Voridis' question, provides for an increased majority in favour of the creation of the PSE, responds - slightly - to the heart, let me say that this is provided for in order to reach a broad consensus on the faces. The Minister of State wants to tell us that the constitutional legislature is neither interested in responsibilities nor in the functioning of the PSE. I think that this is a completely superficial approach to the issue that has caused great problems and, if you like, it has also raised to the public speech and political controversy. Mr Katrugalos came here earlier attempting to respond to our President and to an undertaking to distort reality and not much, he wanted to say that the announcement of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors is addressed to the New Democracy and to economic interests. As for economic interests, if it means the newspaper party, then perhaps we too could agree for reasons of political self-interest. However, a phrase in the communiqué of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, which says that such medals do not even use fascist regimes, clearly shows where the announcement is addressed, at least at this point. Trying to bring the laws and the Constitution itself into our measures or distorting reality, does not offer any service to the public. In order for the social economy, which is the subject of today's bill, but also the economy and society itself, to function properly and democratically, ladies and gentlemen, but also to be accepted by the majority of the citizens, democracy must first of all operate. When one of the three independent powers of our democracy is affected in this brutal and raw way, all the previous ones cannot function because the lack of confidence of the citizens towards the institution is increasing and one of the powers seems to be reproaching the rest of the independent powers. That creates a problem of democracy. Of course we are not talking either of a junta or of a dictatorship, as a SYRIZA speaker said earlier - if I am not mistaken, it was Mr Manios - but of a very serious problem that arises in the functioning of the democratic culture. So let me come to the bill, Minister. Could one question arise about this: was it necessary to make a law in order to create that framework for the functioning of the social economy? I would say that no, in the sense that there was a precedent for Law 4019/2011, which was not implemented. It has even become self-criticist from our rapporteur on this point. However, if substantial and improved ministerial decisions and circulars had been adopted, it might have worked and time hadn't been lost. But today it has also taken a positive step with the broad consensus of the parties, but also with the fact that the relevant Minister has been able to comment and incorporated them into the bill. And in this sense, we can say that a good start has been made, but that SYRIZA's colleagues also take proof - tangible now - that the New Democracy is not a party that says 'no' to everything. Where she agrees, she agrees and does her self-criticism for her policy of deficit, perhaps in the past. From there on, however, I would like to make a few remarks, Minister. It is said that the specific enterprises operating within the social economy should not be profitable. At the same time, it is agreed by the bill that they should reinvest their profits - and it makes sense - to make them sustainable, to develop and achieve the social role resulting from the bill. And that is the aim of reducing unemployment, the most important one. Because there cannot be a greater social impact and a greater social footprint in Greece today than the decline in unemployment. As to how they operate, they will be judged in practice. However, I think we could adopt and incorporate into the draft law practices of successful cooperatives in Greece, because we are all ignoring here that cooperatives are a very successful model of social economy, at least those who still work, those who achieve results and leave a large social footprint. We do not need to discover the wheel, Minister, as long as we adopt the best practices of other European countries. And, you know, it may or may not have this bill, which is less or less ideological, but it is certainly not even a Euro-Communist case, because it has been implemented in the European states of the free market and it makes sense that the social economy has been implemented there and that it will leave 5% and 10% of GDP production, because there is an excess of common wealth, there it can be supported by financial instruments and know-how. It's so simple. We shouldn't be concerned if it's left, centre or right, the bill. We should be concerned about the proper use of social resources in order to achieve the social result sought, including the reduction of unemployment and the increase of GDP and everything else. But, Minister, I would like here to stand on a point, because this bill makes an attempt to operate some businesses. You did not use and initially incorporate the experience of social cooperatives, the COMPAs, which at infancy and as they worked, proved some things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you are so kind as to allow me to continue for another minute. The three types of enterprises, the provision of services to SMEs, the effort to integrate special population groups and the productive purpose were those which mainly worked. Most - and that makes sense - were productive. I feel that the bill is more directed towards enterprises providing services to small and medium-sized enterprises and integrating special population groups. I would say that the need today is to create cooperative enterprises, which will achieve results. In this sense, profit is not unfair. Unfounded is, if necessary, shamefulness or the lack of a framework of rules and practices acceptable to the society as a whole. In conclusion, Minister, I would also like to say to you - and I would like to draw your attention - that after yesterday's resignation of the General Secretary, there is a strong rumour and a fear runs over the owners of the small vocational training centres. According to these fears, which are already expressed, you are thinking of establishing some strict criteria with retroactive effect, which will fly out of the implementation of the public-benefit schemes all small CVTs. I would ask you to clarify this, because of course you have the right to establish criteria, even strictly, but not in a retrospective manner, because retrospectiveness in the laws and therefore in the ministerial decisions is also unfair and undemocratic and irrational. But all that we are discussing today, Minister, is of little importance, because many other government decisions on a daily basis are kneeling the real economy and disappearing businesses. And, much worse, through disgraceful statements by government officials appointed by your government, businesses are evacuating abroad. And I'm talking about the statements made by the President of the OAU. So it is not so important that the social economy, which can more easily survive and develop within the framework of a more healthy and prosperous real economy and be better funded and supported.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u189	I'm done, Mr. President. The bill is important, the social economy is important, but the real economy, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is more important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Christos Bukouros for his location. Minister Antonopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u191	Let me clarify two points. The fact that the country is in a difficult position in terms of its productive reconstruction and the development orbit, in which everyone wants to enter, is a fact. However, it is overlooked that today 'ERGANE' - and I shall be tabling it - has made the latest figures on what is happening with regard to unemployment. And I read: 'The government's efforts to increase employment and reduce unemployment are continuing and growing', does it not say 'ERGANI', I say that and what is the result of 'ERGANI'? That when we look from 2001 until now, the increase in private sector wages has had the highest nine-month return since 2001. The big problem we have right now is that these jobs are created...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u192	Can you give us the figures of the type of full-time? It's 50%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u193	Sure. You will allow me to finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u194	To conclude, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u195	The big problem we are facing at the moment, as you rightly point out, is that the deregulation in the labour market, which has come all these years...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u196	And now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u197	Don't lift the flag like that! The deregulation, which has come, results in the jobs created not all being full-time. Now it's 48%. We now have 48%, we increased it from 44% to 48%, but I won't get caught with funny details right now. What I wanted to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u198	But it's not details. Four hours people are working. Four!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u199	Listen to me, Mr. Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Bukkaro, if you'd like the Minister to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u201	Listen, I'm afraid we know why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u202	Because it's four hours. For 4%...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u203	Can I finish? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u204	Please do not have a dialogue underneath, if you would like to be kind enough, for the Minister to conclude. Here you go, Mrs. Antonopoulou, finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u205	Well, as far as we remember that it was today, i.e. by accusing this government of bringing them, I think we should keep our level of debate a little bit more calm and higher. The other issue you raised about small KECs, I don't know, does anyone feel that our government is working avenge against CECs? This question I do not understand. We said that we are working coordinates to bring legality to this place, as in other places. So I would like us not to be involved in this kind of risk, who will be closed down and who will be linked to a resignation. Let's focus on the subject of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Minister. The rest on your location. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, has the floor. Here, Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today an issue on which, of course, we are all sensitive to the issue of the social economy, the well-known third sector of the economy. Unfortunately, this sector still remains in our country today very little developed and this is a real shame and we really need to support anything that can stimulate it. However, I would like to stress that because reality does not always coincide with what we want to do, it is good, at the time we are talking about the social economy, to realise that the social economy cannot function unless it cannot function first or, at the same time, the real economy is at the same time. The social economy does not mean that we are organizing a sector that is outside the criteria of the general private economy. It means that we have a sector where we pay particular attention to the non-distribution of profits made by the social economy, because the profits made by the social economy are intended to support the leverage of funds accumulated to stimulate those who work in it and, of course, to meet specific needs of the social whole. The basic principles governing it must be principles which, even more than the general economy, respect the environment, the management economy, democratic decision-making, etc. However, it is true that although the quota that the social economy can get to its overall contribution to the economy could even reach 5% and go beyond it, in our country it is less than 1% and I very much fear that we will be too late to go through a percentage, a threshold which could make it more important if we do not resolve certain issues, which are linked to its support in an undifferentiated manner. In particular, I would like to raise four points very briefly, and then, if you allow me, I will give two thoughts on the current situation. The first is support mechanisms. In order for the social economy to function, it is necessary to have those mechanisms that support it, and I fear that neither the parties nor society are ready to produce such mechanisms. Why wasn't the valuation of Law 4019/11 before we moved on? Why has it been stopped for two years to build on the application of this law and what good it could have been produced could not go ahead? Because we wanted to make something supposedly new from the beginning? In fact, the new law does not really change what was before. It clarifies a few issues, changes some forms of action, but actually remains in the same context. Why, then, did we not first make an evaluation and a record of the experience and support for what was before, instead of moving on to something to bring it in communication as a new one? What are the support mechanisms that will enable today's regulation to succeed more than the previous one? I fear that the forecasts that have been made, in particular for the secretariats, are predictions that will be added to bureaucracy. I heard the Minister earlier talking about the Roma. Of course we want the Roma to be supported. Of course we want them to be better integrated into society as a whole. But is this the best way to create a new body? I have heard her say that 'we will do nothing more than take from those who are already serving elsewhere'. Then why is it foreseen in the bill that there will be a derogation for the appointment and movement of executives who will be responsible for these services? The second point I would like to stress is that the social economy cannot function unless there is a developed economy that supports it. The money to support the social economy will also be found from the surplus of this economy. Thirdly, what is it to ensure funding for the social economy? How will the banks be able to support it? Is there any prediction of this? Is there any funding dimension that has been studied and there is a plan that is realistic at the moment, which supports this kind of economy or is we talking about in the air again, with the intention of satisfying the idea that we have for the social economy without any contact with reality? And finally, fourth point, what are the criteria for the functioning of the social economy operators? The social economy has bodies that do not operate outside the private economy. Inside her framework, I said it before. Distribution is different, the purpose is different, because profit is used in a different way than profit in private enterprises. Sensitivity is greater in the principles that serve society, but the criteria remain the same. Here, what is the prediction of these matters? I'm afraid all this will fall into the void. I would like to stress that as far as we are concerned and as far as I am concerned, I believe that this effort is worthwhile to be stimulated under the strict conditions, but that we will be in touch and remain in touch with reality. I would also like to say a word about news. Because I must confess to you that as a professor of public law and indeed of administrative law, who has devoted his life to the university, but also as a lawyer in administrative justice, I am, in fact, very sad when I see the situation in which one of the most important institutions we have in justice and our country, the Council of State has arrived. The Council of State has so far been the frost of the legal world and there has been an area of truly extra-Greek, in the sense that what was the highest in Europe we met at the Council of State, namely the best, the highest, the highest legal figures and indeed a legal culture, which was exemplary to our country. The attitude of the Council of State since the summer and then it amazes us and grieves us. When justice is not given in time, when the judges go on holiday instead of meeting to resolve a matter which is well or badly concerned and divided by the National Representation, when they find a way of regulating the issues of temporary judicial protection very little, while they are afraid to meet, in essence, allegedly on the grounds of the perception of public opinion, then I am afraid that administrative justice has reached a dead end, which is exacerbated by the external pressures it receives. I will not say again what has been said before and underlined, about the pressure that has been put on political positions, and indeed at the highest, prime, but I will say about these truly unprecedented, which we see are taking place, about blackmailing top judges, whose morality is known to everyone and their legal training as an exemplary one. And we see that we accept to rattle people, who must have them as a model, in order to achieve a result, which is truly tiny. It is a pity to see that the Council of State has recently given suicide intentions, and it is even more a pity to see that the state, instead of helping it overcome this appalling crisis, is also the vortex to which it has come, is sinking it even deeper. I'm really sorry about that. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u208	Thank you to Mr Theodore Fortsakis, Member of the New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how forty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd Kalamata High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let the students know they're attending a legislative meeting. We are discussing a bill that has been tabled. It is the bill "Social and Solidarity Economy". Today we are discussing the principle of the bill. Tomorrow it will be on the articles and on the amendments, and then it will be passed and made the law of the state. This is one of Parliament's two functions. One is legislation, and the other is parliamentary scrutiny, namely the control exercised by Members of Parliament in the government. Now let's hear Mrs. Maria Theleritis, a SYRIZA MP. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on this bill, because many colleagues in the Opposition have referred to the independence of justice, I would like to say this: let justice do its job, and let us not keep emphasising whether it is independent or not. So, starting with my speech, I would like to say that this draft law, which we are debating today, brings with it a new, innovative air. Why? Because it establishes a framework for the social and solidarity economy - in our country there has been no institutional framework for many years - which has the potential in practice to challenge the dominant model of economic organisation and social relations, which are articulated within it. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the Communist Party, it disputes this dominant model. Most of the draft law concerns the social and solidarity economy and, in my opinion, fair, because today's needs require changes and improvement of the framework in force with Law 4019/2011. I am going to go into more detail next. We should not lose sight of the fact that the draft law contains articles and regulations of major importance to Roma citizens, who have been experiencing social and economic exclusion for decades. Here I would like to emphasise the recommendation of the Roma Special Secretariat, which is an essential step, and I would like to believe that it will make a decisive contribution to the start of a different approach from what we have used to date, namely an integrated, long-term and sufficient resource approach that does not respond in general, but in particular and directly to the modern and diversified needs of our Roma fellow citizens, with the design and implementation of policies, which will have continued and will not, as so many times in the past, be fragmented and directly linked only to European programmes, which have often not produced results. But what is the overall philosophy of this draft law? First of all, it is part of the government's strategic objective, which seeks to create a favourable environment to strengthen the social economy's operations, because, as you know, the social economy, both politically and economically, is a horizontal strategic priority of the SYRIZA Government, because it can contribute to economic development, the fight against unemployment and social exclusion and the deepening of democracy in production and work. What does that mean politically? That another type of formation of production and work is actually being applied. Firstly, it introduces a different logic and approach from the one we used to date, which was limited to the policies for implementing specific programmes for vulnerable population groups, and today it 'feels' a number of different economic activities, particularly those described in the'sustainable development' in Article 2. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Secondly, it is a priority for SYRIZA, because in the context of recession and austerity it can contribute a significant share of GDP, as is the case in many countries in America and Europe. The examples are France and Spain, where social economy activities account for more than 10% of their GDP. Thirdly, it addresses all citizens and all economic activities. The social and solidarity economy is not a regional activity for us, but one of the main pillars of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, in our own approach this sector is an area of economic activity, which is being developed autonomously by the state and the profitable private sector, but which it seeks to influence. It provides alternative models of production and consumption, promotes participatory and democratic processes in economic relations and is at the reverse of social competition, individualism and idiosyncrasy. At the same time, however, this draft law complies with SYRIZA's principles and values for local government. Why? Because with some regulations, which it contains, it enables society itself to organise itself, to provide services, to play an active role in policy making and in planning and controlling services, which it itself uses and thus encourages innovation and development from below. Especially in our time, at a time of economic crisis at national and local level, the reconstruction of local economic production and the treatment of direct social needs are a priority for local society, how much more so for local government, which today is called on to reduce the costs associated with providing social mainly services, when there are cases of social enterprises throughout Europe and in Greece, which have demonstrated their ability to offer at the local level high quality services and, at the same time, on the part of public policies, with very good results and at the same time improve local communities and the local market. In essence, social enterprises have the only chance of building what many theorists say, both the economic and the social capital of a local society. In particular, the members of a social enterprise are well aware and show particular sensitivity to the needs of the people who offer their services and because of their close and daily contact with the local community. Also, they can create fermentations to improve culture of cooperation, their sense of belonging to local society, both from equal forms of organisation and fair work, internally as is the case in the social enterprise itself and in its social impact on local society. This bill, with a number of measures, facilitates the sustainability of local social enterprises, but at the same time regulates relationships between TA I and B grades with social enterprises. Why? Because they are regulations which did not provide for the previous institutional framework and which had created a number of problems in the sustainability of social enterprises. What do I mean? Firstly, it is not allowed to participate in social enterprises rather than those concerning integration companies. Secondly, the use of movable and immovable property by TLTROs is granted, as well as the conclusion of programming contracts, so that they can implement actions. They are very important tools for the sustainability of these social enterprises. Thirdly, it is possible to conclude programme contracts for the design and execution of works and programmes of general interest, if these are of course mentioned in their statutes, with the public. It's very important, too. On the basis of this, together with the Special Secretariat and the Social and Solidarity Fund, I think they are key tools for supporting this bill and for it to be able to do so. I conclude with two points, in my opinion: the first is the creation of the new person, namely the Workers' Cooperative, where the opportunity is given for the first time in our country for young people and young people, who do not want to enter and enter this deregulationd labour market and leave abroad, to stay in our country and to try to fight through this cooperative form of business. Secondly, it opens up the scope of the social economy beyond the well-known social enterprises and other legal entities, based not on the legal form, as it was, but on the way they operate, that is, on the principles governing the social economy and on the commitment of profits. I should like to conclude by stressing, as in the report on the assessment of the consequences of the arrangements, that the social solidarity economy together with other forms of participatory democratic organisation and representation is a strong factor in the democratisation of the social and economic organisation but also in the establishment of institutions that cover the production of products or the provision of services accessible to all citizens, women and men, regardless of nationality, gender, religion and economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Georgios Diaras has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have first of all a difficulty in classifying the social economy: Marxism or capitalism? Golden Dawn said it's a subtle Marxist pattern. The JRC said it's an intimate design of the capitalists. Probably, somewhere in the middle is the truth. However, for the political ecology, which I express here, the social economy on the left is a political priority for many years. I now remembered a friend of mine, a former KKE, who had gone to the School of Philosophy in Moscow and who, when he returned a trained staff member of the KKE said that the solution today is models of a social economy. He even wrote a book about it. From him, I've heard of a social economy. I therefore believe that the bill is very important to the economy and to society. The social and solidarity economy is a key pillar for a sustainable and sustainable economy. The logic and practices covered by the social and solidarity economy, obviously, are not new. In fact, they are too old to refer to the synagogues of the Middle Ages and to the forms of social economy organized by workers before the welfare state. In fact, it refers to an ancient practice of social cohesion at local level. Today these new economic units of production or provision of services are small and act within a broadly decentralised area. It is the economy that Greece needs to exploit its huge social capital and know-how. The social economy is widespread in Europe where about 12 million workers are employed and is about 6% of the European Union's working population. Experience at European level is exploited to a certain extent by the draft legislation, but it must also be taken into account. Italy and Germany are positive examples. Germany changed the cooperative law in 2006 and gave a lot of impetus to the creation of new cooperative and social enterprises. The social economy is a form of resistance to the expansion of multinational enterprises - small, but it is resistance - and to the formation of dependent economies. Neoliberal globalisation creates economies which, not only are unfair but are also unstable and which is why dangerous. So we must take the fate of the country and the fate of the economy in our hands. We need to find a way to produce the human potential inertia. To give an opportunity to the unemployed young people, who are smuggling into unemployment, to get into the productive process. Not for the young people to wait for the multinationals to get them waiters and dressers at large hotel business units. Here, then, is one of the solutions for building a sustainable economy that will be resilient to external crises, capitalist crises, conflicts, energy crises, etc. According to both the programmes and the Economists and SYRIZA, the objective set by the bill, namely the development of the social and solidarity economy through the involvement of citizens and local communities, is key and implemented by this bill, which others have not brought so comprehensively in the past. Even more today with the new law, we are moving a step further than the previous law, which related to the third sector of the economy, the 2011 Act, which proceeded cowardly, as it institutionalised a social economy as a marginal social integration activity. The most important innovation in the bill is that it brings an integrated approach to the institutionalisation of the social economy with the possibility of unifying all forms of social enterprises in associations, which can be represented in the national committee. This regulation deals with the widespread fragmentation of social economy operators. Under Article 8, it directs local bodies to establish associations with at least ten social economy actors. This regulation responds, in fact, to the constant need for local synergies and local social partnerships, to activate local social capital and to effective cooperation with local government. Article 5(5) provides for the establishment of programme agreements with local government and the recognition of the possibility of logistical assistance by the public. Some changes I would suggest are the following. As far as one proposal is concerned, the non-institutions which the public sector owns more than 49% have already changed. Thank you very much, Minister, for this change, which was also a request from the Greens and the people concerned with the social economy. Secondly, with the relevant provisions of the draft law, the Social Economy Register is given the discretion to decide whether the day-to-day activity of the entities covers the conditions for subjecting to indefinite legal concepts, which are not defined in this draft law, such as the one referred to as ‘social impact’. The proposal is that we should be very careful to formulate in the CSCE, in the joint ministerial decision, so that it does not create such problems and ambiguities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, in a minute I shall be done. There must be arrangements for the recognition of solidarity structures based on voluntary work. The bill does not encourage voluntary work and solidarity. The question, therefore, is how they could enter the provisions of this law and accept financial support structures such as social pharmacies, doctors, etc., which actually do social work. There are privileged sectors in the social economy, such as waste, source sorting, restoring, recycling, composting, cultivation and utilization of organic products, alternative tourism, energy upgrades, etc. There is a need for free legal support and information for the establishment and operation of social enterprises. They need help from young people who know nothing about this. A special role belongs to local government to help the social economy. I would like to point out that there is no way that this sector will develop unless strong economic and fiscal incentives are given. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. The law is given financially - if it operates at the respective point - incentives are given assistance and possibilities for partnership and synergies. However, as an expressioner of the political ecology, I would like more bold tax incentives, such as the lack of tax for the first five years for social enterprises, created by long-term unemployed and young people. This must be a strategic option for the development of the social and solidarity economy, because in the current situation it is a very good instrument for the country's productive reconstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr. Starios Castaris, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great deal of temptation, all of us, to deal with issues of current political topicality and thus to blame this big issue, the issue that the Social entrepreneurship law brings today, and even at such a difficult period of heightening the crisis, for the whole world that suffers from unemployment and supports its hopes in the implementation of this law that we have brought today, a law aimed at creating the legal framework for the social economy. The aim of the social economy, social entrepreneurship, is, firstly, to create jobs, jobs, especially for the most vulnerable groups of the population. The second objective is also to make a decisive contribution to the social economy to the reintegration of people who have been disintegrated or isolated from social activities, supporting them to develop skills and skills that will enable them to live with dignity in civil society. And thirdly, social entrepreneurship, the social economy is the form of entrepreneurship, which can contribute to growth and social cohesion, since it raises the ideals of solidarity, participation, equality and humanity. The participatory way of forming these enterprises helps to develop confidence and the occupation of these people with social goods improves the social capital and the social benefit for all of us. For the social economy there were laws in the past, such as Law 2716/1999, which provided for the creation and operation of the KOSPEs. There is still L.4019/2011, which provides for the operation and creation of the COMIPs. But despite all the laws, substantial support for social entrepreneurship has not existed in the past. Under very difficult conditions, battles were fought, we could say, in order that today there is even this minimum that exists in the social economy. I am talking about the action of the KOSPEs. We now have twenty-five in Greece in operation, with twenty-seven thousand members and five hundred thirty workers. Of these five hundred thirty workers, three hundred fifty are mentally ill. Here I can say that I am also very proud of my contribution, for my help, both at the KOSPE of the Pierre Prefecture in Katerini, in my capacity as an employee in mental health, but also for my assistance and participation in the establishment of the first PPC in Greece, the number one in the register, the "Museums of Pierres", which was created in Katerini by unemployed women. This government, colleagues and colleagues, with this law, creates tools and opens the way for growth, not only to the production that creates new values, new wealth, which we so much need today in our country during this period of crisis and effort to restructure production, but above all because it also creates a huge social benefit. The gain, the surplus that these enterprises can create, is the instrument, is not the purpose, since it reinvests to create new jobs and part of this surplus, 30%, goes as a bonus to workers. These enterprises are neither monopolies nor another way of passing to socialism on their own. So there is no reason, gentlemen, to fight them either from the left or from the extreme right. They are small, in particular, businesses, which are having a hard time getting through, which do not have funds, but the work of their members and the share of the volunteers. PROKOSPE, the Panhellenic Federation of KOSPEs in Greece, tabled a proposal that I support in the consultation. This proposal says that for three years all these social enterprises could be helped by covering the costs for the safety of workers, i.e. they should be paid through a programme. This can be done for three years both for existing social enterprises and for those created from now on. All the staff? I would say that, if it is so difficult, at least for four workers in each social cooperative, you could pay their premiums for three years or an equal amount to cover them and be for more people if they are part-time. Of course, these workers would be good - and we would have to predict it from the programme - to be small, that is, people who want to work and who have a disability rate of more than 55%, and that proves through the CEDEFOP committees. If it cannot be done in the law, Minister, at least let us see how the Ministry of Labour can support social entrepreneurship through such a programme. I think that this will be an important support for their development, and the law wants to help, as in this direction it has been written. Also, this government will do everything it can to achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Colleague, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Before the Minister is placed on the bill, I also consider it appropriate to make some comments at the outset, but also on the top of the time, in my capacity as Parliamentary spokesman for the Staff Regulations, and to explain, if necessary, a misunderstanding, which was previously created at the time of my position, when I said that the responsible Minister for Justice must be more concerned with improving the working conditions of the judges and not with the operating conditions of the criminals. I meant, of course, the conditions of operation in prisons, in detention stores, where, in fact, the Minister of Justice has shown an exaggerated zealous zeal, I would say, with the zeal he has shown by improving the working conditions of the officials of the judiciary. The bill is indeed a product of relative consensus. Before going to this, of course, I will concentrate on issues of the absolute controversy of topicality. I'm explaining. You know, ladies and gentlemen, there are rules in democracy. It can't work otherwise. There are pathogens too. There are problems. There are those who try or succeed in circumventing these rules, but there are rules for them too. You here often give us the impression that you are either indifferent to the construction of your own or ignore the existence of these rules. I can't explain it otherwise. I wonder what your motives are? Is it your conviction that “power is, do what you want”? Is the danger ignorance of many of you? Is the many times exotic ignorance of the functioning of relations at different levels of administration and public life from European correlations to public administration rules? Or is it a firm belief that, first, you have the absolute truth of everything and, secondly, you are quite the regain of history and therefore no one can resist you. What's all this? Maybe all this together. I see the result, however, and the result is that the situation is getting worse. There's a collapse. The debate is no longer exhausted in the country's finances, whose worsening is basically due to the catastrophic negotiation of the first seven months of 2015, when you came for the moment to change everything and impose your opinion on Europe and the world all over. There is also a fall or worsening of the institutions and their operation in that country. This is particularly serious. I really don't understand what you don't understand. To show fascist behavior did not speak of a party organ or a trade union controlled party. The Union of Judges and Prosecutors spoke. The leading expression of collective representation of the judiciary spoke of fascist attitudes and did not address generally and vaguely to some element of public life. The government was addressing very specifically, which, of course, went through the counterattack and spoke about total conduct. But, at the moment, he is facing the reproach of fascist behavior. From there on as far as the decision of the Council of State is concerned what he said? He simply said that there is a question concerning the law on authorisations, that there is indeed a legitimate interest in the applicants and that, therefore, the court should consider the matter in its essence and decide whether the law is constitutional or unconstitutional. So let's let the court function. Any intervention now, you know, on the fifteen days that it will take until we have the final decision of the S.H.I.E.L.D. As to the substance of the issue will not provide good services as to the need of the Court of Justice of the European Union, this leading body of justice to function and produce results functionally independent. Now it's not just these issues with the rule of law. In the social state lately for which, of course, there is so much interest on your part, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, in the theory things are not so good. That's where I'm claiming the situation is having a collapse. Just in the last three days - I'm not talking about an older news report - what did we have? We had the issue with the EMCDDA and its inability to develop successfully or adequately, to meet the basic needs, the fleet from the ambulances, when the competitive process, of course, has already been under way for the days of the ever-increasing coexistence to provide new ambulances. We have - I would like to confirm this, but I think it is - twenty-nine, please, hepatitis A cases in the New Kavala camp, where refugees, immigrants, etc. are hosted. From August onwards. This number is about a two - thousand camp. We were talking, as early as winter, about a health bomb in danger of erupting, but it was not done, or in any case, the result certainly did not achieve the mandatory vaccination measures for all children. Twenty - nine out of two thousand, where by June cases throughout the population were fourteen. If this isn't a dangerous phenomenon, I don't know what it is. We had the workers in the social structures of the country. They are unpaid and their contracts expire. The structures are in the air. I would remind you that the network for dealing with poverty, which had been launched again at the end of 2012, and the relevant Minister, Mrs Fotio, tells us what he has been telling us since March 2015, when we first came here to vote on the humanitarian crisis bill, that he did not find anything - he says - in the ESRB. If this argument stood in March 2015, you know, it can't stand and now after a year and a half, that he didn't find anything and, therefore, he left the thing almost in his luck. Well, we're gonna make a suggestion. Let us propose the self-organization of workers in these structures at the JEP base. Can he do it? Hardly. Do you know why it's hard? Because so long as Mrs Fotio and many of you in here have been fomenting the workers on all these structures and on "Help at home" and telling them that the only solution for them is to resist the proposals for self-organisation by the previous government and seek access to the public. Now you ask them, on the basis of this bill, to self-organize themselves. Is that you? What you sow, ladies and gentlemen. Can I see how these self-organization attempts go? For these kinds of activities are precisely what this bill is aimed at in order to organise in social economy structures. We have after the unacceptable, in fact, and a provocative statement by the President of the OAU, who said: 'Those who cannot pay contributions to go to Bulgaria'. That is what he said in northern Greece. He should know that in northern Greece there have already been too many free professionals and businessmen and transported home to Bulgaria, not to enrich or gain uncontrolled profits, but to survive and keep their businesses. Of course, a week ago in the monitoring committee on the insurance system, he was not as sad as he was the other day in the world. At the time that one in two free professionals cannot pay the current contributions, before the increased income percentage of the Katorugalos Act is activated, 27%, which will prevent the increase of business activity in Greece, unless the free worker hides a profit or hides a turnover, or goes, as the Chief Commander of the OAU, in Bulgaria urges! We urge him to resign and we will return to this point. It cannot be a public factor, especially in the insurance system, to make such statements. The collapse of the insurance system, however, is exacerbating the numbers of poverty, ladies and gentlemen. We have recently learned that one out of two is at risk of poverty if not below the threshold. This number is critical. I don't know, ladies and gentlemen of the government, if at the end of your term of office, you will have done enough to deal with poverty. But I know that in the meantime you will have produced more poverty. That, I think, is the crucial issue. Finally, I am opposed to the resignation of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Labour. I think it is a question of the government's internal functioning, but I do not think it is the major. I have to say that if the occasion for this resignation was a dimension of opinion on the functioning of the CECs, perhaps the time has come for us to do, in terms of cross-party understanding, a great debate on the functioning of vocational education and training centres. I think it is time to lay down rational rules for all this, Minister. Finally, for the social economy I do not have much time, but I will be able to say a few things in tomorrow's debate on the articles. There's been a lot of noise. Not all of them have started since zero. In addition, the Minister also admitted it in her honour, in a constructive debate held in the committees. There is the previous n.4019/2011. There is a national strategy for social inclusion, and there is also a national strategy for the social economy, after consultation with the European Commission. The widespread optimism that the development of the third pillar will lead a little - very much to the country's ultimate productive reconstruction - does not find me entirely in agreement. The third pillar is useful, but it is not enough to lead to the country's productive reconstruction, next to the first, which is the state-controlled economy and the second, which is the private economy. In the countries, you see, the productive effect of the third pillar is barely 10% of GDP. In Greece it is much lower. Some 1% of GDP. The conclusion is, therefore, that there is a great scope for improvement, provided that there is a plan and information and encouragement for those interested in participating. Listen to this, I think it is extremely important for our debate. There are, as you know, three categories of social cooperative company, according to Law 4019/2011, which was the basic structure of the social economy with the previous legislative regime. The first is the COMMUNICATIONS of Integration, where the purpose is to integrate individuals and social life into the economic and social life of vulnerable groups, for example people with physical or mental disability, dependent on substances or prisoners. The second category is the SOCIETYS of social care, where the purpose was to produce and provide health goods and services to specific groups of the population, mainly in elderly, infants or disabled persons. The third category is COMES, collective and productive, where the purpose was to produce products or to provide services with a social print. Listen here. Following some research, the results of which were published in April 2015 by the National Centre for Social Research, the EMCDDA, emerged as follows: At that time there were a total of six hundred eighty-nine COMPs registered in the Ministry’s register. From these hundred thirty-one have been deleted from the register, they do not exist. Of the ones that have been deleted, unfortunately 27.4% more than 1/4 were concerned with social care COMES, - take note - in the most important area in which a social economy enterprise could blossom. Of the total of three hundred sixty-five have already been activated, i.e. they have received the final operating certificate, but from them only 12.5% is for social care enterprises and 3.8% is for social inclusion COMES. The vast majority, in 83.7%, of three hundred nine enterprises, are engaged in joint ventures with a collective production purpose, the third category relating to the production of a good or to the provision of a specific service with a social footprint. So what's the conclusion, Minister? The conclusion is that we must strengthen the first two categories - of course a conclusion is this - but above all that the social enterprises that are 'trafficking' are those of the third category of collective production, which are conceptually linked and with the elements of entrepreneurship. We have told you in committee too, it is the dominant trend in the European debate. The element of social entrepreneurship must be promoted here. There is no need to be an exclusive attachment to the profit element, there are other elements involved in the business operation. It is the business idea, the basic condition, is the risk, the organisation and promotion of a product that the social undertaking decides to produce, is some flexibility in decision-making, it is staffing, it is funding. In particular, the latter part does not have sufficient debate in consultation, as part of the national strategy for the social economy. So this left-hand phrase about solidarity, participatoryness and so on, but I think that the comments of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment must be taken into account and that the element of social entrepreneurship must be promoted, as this will make a difference in the correct and rational development of the third pillar, that of the social economy. In this context, see the proposals made by the relevant Commissioner for Social Affairs, Minister. He called for a more comprehensive approach, covering all existing initiatives and initiatives among other ministries. He asked whether the national plan had been submitted to genuine consultation within the government structure, in particular between the central government and other structures such as the regions. He raised the point that the main social and economic challenges have not been addressed sufficiently in the debate so far. Also, as I said, it is the issue of inadequate forecasts on the issue of funding. There, you know, it's all about microfinance that opens streets. He also added that the national strategy does not establish sound supervisory and evaluation procedures. Here I see that you have done a lot with the tools of the social impact, but they must not be activated by poor participants themselves but by some other tool. Of course, he also called for the existing experience to be taken into account and for it to be better interministerial coordination. With this in mind, I will conclude by saying that the bill is indeed a decent initiative to improve and strengthen the existing institutional framework by a decent Minister of a non-substantiated government. We're supporting it. That is why we are positive in its vote in principle. Some articles we'll talk more extensively and say things tomorrow. However, only the fact that the Minister has listened to and improved the legal elements of the bill has shown precisely the decency I have spoken about, and the fact that this bill is - I would say - the exception to the rule, a real product of consensus on its benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u216	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u217	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative with the "exceptional" rather shows that he has a small, selective memory, because the memorandum you have all voted on together, as if you didn't know what you were voting on together. It is clear that the news of the days obliges us to place ourselves on what is running and, of course, on the bill. It is clear that the Government, the New Democracy and other parties are taking advantage of the issue of licences for the formation of the National Broadcasting Council and of the debate in the Council of State on unconstitutionality or not in order to set up a sharp bipartisan argument. This isn't the first time. We've been through both PASOK and New Democracy. They just changed one pole and try to take political controversy and political issues into ethical issues. To hide what? Exactly what I said. Convergence in the major strategic issues that determine the lives of our people. In any case, today there is also a contradiction, which is not actually the case. Don't you all vote for it together? Here we have anthems from both the New Democracy and the PASOK and the parties of the Euromonstrate and the capitalist development path. There is full compassion, hugs, congratulations, creative things! The people can draw conclusions. Of course we want to say that we do not claim that controversy has to do with the issue of impressions. That is why we make it clear and say that the controversy on licences and on the television scene is neither about democracy nor about transparency nor about the so-called 'coupling of the dialogue'. This is a redistribution of the canal pie, a tough business war, a war of business interests for who will control the information and not just. The government defends some of the businessmen who want to enter the media market, and New Democracy and PASOK defend the alliances with some other canals. However, neither the Government nor the New Democracy nor the others raise the main issue. Who has the media in his hands? The business groups are in their hands. It is up to those who govern them, in fact those who have economic authority. They have them in their hands and those who support the system, they reproduce the dominant ideology in a thousand ways, they support its rot, the associations of the system itself. Of course, there may be big fights, hard fights, but they do not concern people's interests. That is why we, and the Conference of Presidents over time, are voting on the issue of the composition of the PSE. Because the so-called independent authorities - because they are - like the National Broadcasting Council and the responsibilities that the New Democracy has had and that they have to return, the same work has been done, that is, a wheelchairman of business interests. The question is. Are there any attempts in response to the issue of permits, control and influence of justice, first of all, by the government with the upper hand? We say 'yes, of course, and there are'. There are efforts, and open and possibly underground, to intervene in justice. These phenomena are unacceptable. The keyhole tactics hanging on a judge's handkerchiefs are practices that continue today by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, even though they were previously condemned by these political forces in the most unequivocal way. As is unacceptable all that has been said before, resignations of judges, meetings of the Prime Minister with the presidents of the Supreme Court, omission of other associations, wage promises, discussions on extending the mandate of certain judges, which directly and objectively refer to conciliation. They were rightly put on these issues and the associations of judges denounced them. But did New Democracy and PASOK as government not try to manipulate justice and decisions in the past? So at last, we're gonna forget about it? What are we gonna do? We're going to be a looter, about what you've done in the past and you and me? This is where GSY's elected administration has also been slowed down. The so-called independence of justice judges it every time, depending on the position they are. When it's in the government, it's well burned, it's independent, there's no intervention, it's impartial, it's prestige. When they are in opposition, suddenly it stops being independent, complications and interference in its work are discovered. They are forgetting that the Memorandums, the main anti-popular laws that justice is called upon to implement. So what independence? It applies anti-linguistic laws, which serve the interests of capital, also that everyone agrees with the appointment of leadership by the government in question. All this confrontation has nothing to do with the real issues of the administration of justice and the problems of the judges themselves. The aim is to control mechanisms, influence developments in the area in favour of close party interests, but also parts of business groups that conflict hard, indeed, but not in the people's interests, but in terms of their own profits in the field of the economy. We have told all tons and always that the role of justice and its place within this power, that economy, as part of the state mechanism, is to support the interests of the ruling class and implement the anti-Fland laws that they are voting on. It is clearer to exploit the anti-population policy, to serve as a whole the interests of the large groups at the expense of the workers, the populace. In some cases - and take note of it - justice is a precedent for the implementation of anti-population policy. Here's a recent example. A few days ago we had raw intervention in the trade union movement by the Monomele Court of Athens with a decision to suspend the implementation of the decisions of the 29th Congress of the Athens Labour Centre together with its administrative bodies. Because the bodies of the Athens Labour Centre and also the conference decided unanimously not to participate representatives of a union at the EAEC conference, because of a flagrant violation of the provisions of the Statute of the EAEC in the election of its representatives in this decision - we have intervened on behalf of an employer and government, which reminds us of other times and opens the way for full and direct control of the trade unions and employers, since they do not recognise the trade unions the right to control and legalise representatives on the basis of their statutes, no one has come to justice except the JRC. How do you put it? The Minister said 'the independence of justice'. Isn't that what he said when you went to the show? The rest of you, why don't you talk, and you're tired of justice? It actually goes on to abolish the autonomy of the trade unions, it does, as does their right to apply their statutes and exclude representatives. Why is none of you talking about justice all the time, or when all strikes in advance or at least 99% are declared illegal and some more before they are announced? We do not identify the role and institution of justice with all the judges and people who are working, because there are also bright exceptions, which have lifted boots and also suffer the consequences of anti-grassroots policies. So we must stop hypocrisy in this area. Let's go through the bill now. What does the title say? Social economy. That's a fraud! Ideological fraud! Social economy means that the people have the means of production in their hands, they have the wealth they produce and they plan, they plan on what? It is based on meeting human needs and not on capitalist gain. Here is the invention - and it is not the first - of the social state. What social state? It's a state capitalist. With blood and sacrifice workers years and for other reasons some conquests have been extracted. Social partners. The industrialist, shipowner and the worker partners. Only one eats lobster and the other eats crumbs! Such partners are, one works and sweats, and the other fruits its sweat. Civil society. Which civilians, really? Is that all civilians? There are workers, peasants, businessmen, there are, there are, there are. Equivalence. What else? Social cohesion. What does social cohesion mean? Is the interests the same? Here the history of humanity is the struggle of order and is the driving force of society. What did you do now? That is what the government is adopting not now, but it has adopted them for too many years and we are talking about a social economy too. The social economy, first of all, is neither our invention nor yours. It's been a long time. The crucial point was the decision at the OECD Conference of States in June 1998. Isn't that right, Minister? That's right. It is not the roots of ancient times and so on, it is the decisions of the European Union and the law of the PASOK. We have a simple question. Is capitalism really destroying itself? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will also give me the time of my dentistry, Mr President, and I will not speak again. Capitalism self-destruct? So he's building the social economy to create preconditions, as the Prime Minister said at the conference for a transition to socialism or doing something different? Because we cannot speak in theory alone - but we will speak in theory - these have been in a series of developed capitalist countries for too many years and have been very developed from America and Canada to Germany and Belgium. There's all the evidence, you know. What have they done all this time? Did they prepare the ground for socialism? What did they do? They have created conditions, to have workers who manage sectors, etc.Huh? The opposite is true. So what do we say? We say - and so it is - that it is part of the capitalist economy. Mr Fortsakis even said it openly. If I remember his expression well, he said that "yes, they will help to leverage funds. We say, then, that what they say is no profit, is a myth and that they operate within the capitalist economy. We are also saying that they are trying to use today in the framework of the system as a tool of progression from the crisis, but above all they are part of the service of strategic needs of capital. How? Because one can say that you are 'exaggerated' here we are dealing with another area. One of the strategic targets, recorded both in the memoranda and everywhere, is the shrinking of the state and the services that this provides with a double objective: Firstly, the capital should be used in specific new areas, education, health, welfare and therefore to be leveraging, in sectors that the state has so far had. Secondly, in times of crisis, state spending will be shifted. What is the aim of the reduction in social spending? It is intended to save money, including to invest funds in new areas that are shrinking, so private sectors will go and also save money, to fund - as in the various support packages either called Juncker or called development law - big capital. What's the result? Firstly, the degradation of services and benefits for the people. Second, merchandise. Thirdly, a reduction in the total value of the labour force, through volunteering, cheap labour, low wages, no employment relationships and built-in rights. Thirdly, an attempt to manage unemployment through social work programmes. In other words, cheap labour, the integration of the unemployed. Something deeper. It turns the unemployed into self-employed. It does not actually improve their economic position at all and is trying to convince them to feel overboard, with EUR 300, 500 and 600. Finally, the dismantling of public resources, instead of giving the money to the state structures that exist, to support and develop even more - why don't you give the money there? -, they are given to NGOs, COMEPs, which will provide more degraded services. Of course there is a great deal of food that has been proven, especially with non-governmental organisations. They are published, we all know them. We call it'social economy' from the top. Can anyone really be serious about a social economy in capitalism? What are the relationships here? Aren't they capitalist production relationships? Isn't the profit law an incentive? Aren't they gonna win? Where do they get it from? From the air? You're educated. Part of goodwill is fruited. Raw materials don't use? Others don't use? So don't tell us that, with the overwhelming domination of monopolies, with the law of capitalism that is the law of profit, you will have a social economy and even when we talk about alternatives on the side. Let me tell you something, because I don't have any more time. All this has been tested. PASOK did it before, remember? What did PASOK project as a model? First of all, cooperatives. Did they have to, yes or no? Not only have they been bankrupt, but now you're turning them into anonymous companies and by law. Second, cooperative banks. Do you remember the models? We've been apologizing all the time. They blamed us for not seeing these innovations that will create infrastructure for passing through to socialism. So what about the cooperative banks? They tried to moralize the financial system, to say that we could in capitalism build banks that work otherwise, with which it happened? There was a party - Ahazian Bank - and they eventually became anonymous companies, entered a strategic investor, went to capital, and so this delusion - which has been tested - is now coming in another way. What is your great 'offer' - ideological and serious, I mean - by advertising this supposed social economy? That delusion is being created that workers may change working-class conditions, i.e. they take power without overthrowing the power of capital. That it may, on the one hand, coexist with capital - to girdle, to dominate everywhere, to monopolies - especially today, as is the situation and the situation of capitalism and, on the other hand, to have a social economy that coexists and creates conditions for the passage to socialism, that is, ever on these conditions. We therefore tell the workers, despite the bait they will fall, - because they will fall bait on many workers and the drowned one is caught - not to bite and not to believe that they can, through such forms, also call them entrepreneurs, improve their position and much more solve their own problems. In order to have a social economy in the real sense of the term, socialisation of the basic and concentrated means of production is needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u218	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u219	I shall conclude, Mr President. Scientific design, labour control, which presupposes what? Overthrow the power of capital. What are you talking about? What do you say to the world? That the domination of monopolistic capital, the brutal barbarism that we live in today, within capitalism, can their position be changed socially? No, the opposite. Don't bite on all of this. To organize their struggle to overthrow this power and to take power into their own hands, namely the people's power. Not to pinch in this dirty and unscrupulous propaganda, made from all sides, called class reconciliation, from all sides, that even capital can gain too much from the national economy and from growth and workers to live well. This has never been historical. They may have given some conquests, which they took on one night back. So another way to overthrow cannot be and has not been historically established.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, let us give some thought to the development of the debate. The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Michaliokos, will speak for the floor and will speak for the floor. Then four colleagues will follow. The Minister will make a few minutes of intervention and we will vote at first, so that we can get it over with at approximately 18.30 minutes - go a little later. Mr President, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the heart of today's debate, but also at the heart of the political life of the last few days, the issue of television stations is dominated. In an unrelated bill, as we have seen today, there was an intervention by Mr Mitsotakis, President of the Police Response, on television stations and we were waiting to hear the Prime Minister. All for the channels, then. At the same time, the country is falling apart. Previously, as a Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, the competitor, a competitor, spoke. He talked to you about serious events, about stabbing between minors on hot spot, by those you want to go to Greek schools. No answer. Guilty silence. He told you about the beating of police officers, as well as the men of the EKA. Nothing about it. It doesn't matter. It looks like you're living in another world. Yesterday morning they threw molotov on the Unknown Soldier. Police official notice: "It is not a serious event". You have created or probably already exploited existing para-state gangs, setting up anti-concentrations at political gatherings of legitimate political parties, such as the Golden Dawn. You're not taking any measures. You think that way you'll bend the Golden Dawn. You're wrong. To come to the television stations issue, it was unacceptable and robbery the former regime. I couldn't agree more. What, though, are you doing to heal what sinners existed in the past? There's nothing for the Pappa law. We have here a party that has sold a TV station that took free of charge from the state to an offshore company for 6 million euros. What will the rule of law, which is meant to be SYRIZA, to restore the moral order of things in the television scenery? Nothing. And, of course, it's not the only market. There are dozens of sales in offshore companies of all television stations, and those who remain and those who close. There is nothing literally going on. And all of a sudden, while we heard from the most responsible lips of the government, the lips of the relevant Minister, Mr Papa, that television stations that did not obtain licences must be renegotiated or stopped in the case of their presence on television matters in ninety days, an amendment is suddenly being tabled, with which the government is closing them directly. Why is that? How did this change of walking took place? Because everyone here is talking about bazaar with Alafouzo, which was done specifically to close all television stations. But the Left may not be the innocent dove for the entire television scenery. Here, I have the Newspaper Leaf of the Government of 6 October 1989, where the government of the country was the Jandetaki government and then the New Democracy ruled with the Single Coalition, EAP and the JRC. Before the TV stations “MEGA” and “ANDENNA” were opened, the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council had emerged in the Government Newspaper. So, what do they talk about profitability and green horses, and make ideological chips on the whole story? The accomplices are in the establishment of an immunity regime for television stations, which lasted not one or two, but twenty-seven years. "Banana" literally Greece on the canals issue. And, of course, as Golden Dawn, we have no reason to defend the television stations, which accused us, mocked us, slandered us, operated as traitors literally and even with protected 'witnesses' - in many introductory forms - they fought us. Their war, however, did not reach the people. Thus, the Golden Dawn, despite all the mud of the channels, which it is supposed to want - the government to close, stopping the system of interlocutory, but, in fact, creating a new complication, all this mud did not reach the people. The people - and they constantly highlight - the Golden Dawn as the country's third political power. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And it is precisely because it is the country's third political power that should have a representative within the PSE. The Conference of Presidents took place shortly ago. I think you were present too, Mr President. The law is clear: the third party is entitled to a representative of the PSE. No mention. We have made a concrete proposal and nothing has been mentioned. A flagrant violation of the law. I do not know what is happening with PASOK, if it proposed, which was accepted. You've completely omitted us. We have been completely omitted by the government, in fact neglecting us, not as a party, but by the law itself, which says that the National Broadcasting Council participates in a representative of the third party. Without the Golden Dawn, however, the ERR, which, as it had been working so far, has been inadequate in dealing with the whole legendary landscape, the north - I would say - of the television. In particular, the Constitution provides that the media must respect the law on public innocence, on obedients, etc. Have you opened these TV stations late at night, the wonderful ones to see what they're broadcasting? Do you keep in mind of the advertising messages or the other fraud game with some words and numbers, which are allegedly calling 990, which has taken place in the previous ERR and has convicted and continues the canalarchs normally? And why do they keep going? For the simple reason that they earn a lot more than "pink" phones than the PSE fine. It's unacceptable. I said that at a previous meeting. Even for football there should be a prosecutor and for one of the most crucial to the political life of the place, such as television stations, justice should have no say. And you found an invention: an independent authority. What independent authority? She's partisanly appointed. Nevertheless, it should have no jurisdiction, rather than only fines of ten and twenty thousand euros and, of course, in no case can it protect the honour, the reputation of the people who live in that country and the political parties. We as Golden Dawn are literally excluded. And the PSE has sent orders to the channels and they have written it on the oldest of their shoes. So don't talk about laws. The laws apply only to cards. As far as the Golden Dawn is concerned, you are violating the laws and that is what the people see. However, I would like to take this opportunity to refer to another matter. SYRIZA is a government having received 35.5% last September with the strengthening of the Parliament of the Independent Greeks, who took if I'm not mistaken 3.7%. Recently you held a conference at which there was a huge banner, which said: 'No exiles or prisons, nothing bends communists'. Is that really what SYRIZA's gentlemen say? Are you communists? Then why do you go to the conferences of the Social Democrats and sign memorandums? Finally, do you think that the 35.5% that she voted for you voted for Communists? No way, of course. However, also from the results of the election of members of the Central Committee of SYRIZA and from those who took the first positions, it seemed clear that SYRIZA as government is the 4% SYRIZA. And that's where you walk fast! To 4% SYRIZA is on his way, but he doesn't dare do elections! On the other hand, of course, the New Democracy, which is supposed to want elections, does not see it so willing and kinetic in this regard, in causing them. Golden Dawn denounces the previous status of the channels, denounces the moderation of the government and states that it will fight for the rights of the Greeks, who are currently persecuted within their own country and at the expense of national interests, as with the famous non-governmental organizations where there are a dozen, if not hundreds, millions of euros. Whatever you do, however, the wind of a nationalist blows throughout Europe, France, Austria, Greece, England, everywhere. The nationalists are coming. Let this be taken into account by the SYRIZA gentlemen who think that 35.5% is the communists. Communism ended since the '90s. Let's get this news at last!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague Mr. Ioannis Stephen from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I heard a lot of stabbing a moment ago, only for the slaughter of the Paul of the Bridge. During the day many colleagues, particularly from New Democracy and PASOK, were placed and mentioned in the SYRIZA policy, to how disastrous it is, to how disastrous it is, to how disastrous it is to the people, to how close we lead them to the lip of the disaster, to how close we are to empty them. However, they did not refer to what they have brought us here, to policies related to the Lagard list and to other smaller lists, to 'SIEMENS', to Christoforios, to the submarines, to the involvement, to the hatred, to corruption, to the money taken by the parties, to the dissolution of health and education that we are trying to rectify, to how unemployment reached 29%, and to the slow but slow down - how pensions and wages reached the state they are. In any case, it is being attempted today through a bill, to give people the opportunity through collaborative schemes to find work. One of the central ideological systems on the left was and is co-operation. For the Left, the concept of cooperation is the quintality of the relationship that can be achieved in the workplace, which has the effect of devising new methods, new ways of working the group in the interests of the people who make it up, so as to ensure the best possible result, but also the well-being of the workers. A second ideological mark for the Left has been and is solidarity. Faithful to the ideological flaws of Enlightenment, it is the only political ideology that had highlighted humanism, aid to the fellow man, especially the most vulnerable, in a key element of her worldview. From the Paris comet, with the measures it took to relieve the tested classes at the time, but also the task of the workshops to create cooperatives from the workers, up to the piles of possession from the EAM, the Left has shown that solidarity is a central point of reference not only in its theory but also in practice. However, in order not to go away from such distant times, from the outbreak of the crisis in 2008-2009, and since the Greek society has been confronted with the monuments, the left was behind - or supported - any solidarity initiative aimed at alleviating the most vulnerable groups in the population without making any exceptions. A third ideological mark on the Left, which has joined its worldview in recent decades, is sustainable development and the need to protect the environment against a liberal, consumer model which promotes the unreasonable exploitation of the wealthy sources of the country and the whole world, thereby undermining not only the future of our children, but also the existence of the human species itself. Sustainable development will be consistent with the equal security of the needs of all the people of the earth, without undermining the existence of future generations and the very natural environment. One of the intersectional points of the above-mentioned ideological attitudes is the social solidarity economy, which has been historically created to safeguard workers' defence against the insecurity of industrial relations and to secure basic living conditions. Previous law, Law 4019/2011, laid some foundations for the development of the social economy. For the Left, however, the collaborative economy is not just a means of reducing unemployment or strengthening vulnerable social groups. In other words, the solidarity economy cannot be a marginal economic process. The collaborative economy can be an instrument to achieve another example of economic development, where the economic process is not primarily profit-making but to satisfy needs. The social solidarity economy can not only cover areas where the welfare state, due to the crisis, but also the inexperience of neoliberalism in previous years, find it difficult to satisfy, but it is a question of an overall production process where it is a question of meeting human needs and respect for the environment. Today's law comes to create a framework for the operation and development of the solidarity economy with a horizon for participation in GDP, initially similar to other European countries with a prehistoric history of 10%. This can be achieved through a series of measures, provided for in the current bill and not in the previous one, such as: The establishment of the Social and Solidarity Secretariat, which will supervise the legality of the bodies and cooperate with European international organisations. The introduction of a legal person, the cooperative of workers, which enriches the logic of the COMIPs established by the previous law and aims to incorporate new workers into the labour market. It is planned to set up the Social Economy Fund, a fund that will finance and support a series of actions and specific projects. A transparent and user-friendly framework of cooperation is being established to create economies of scale. There is provision for special treatment of economic solidarity operators by the public or the wider public sector. It is also possible for local government bodies to conclude cooperation agreements for the implementation of a common purpose with these enterprises. Finally, vulnerable groups are being expanded, with the long-term unemployed young people up to twenty-five years old being part of it. This law is an umbrella for the operation of all kinds of cooperatives, putting an end to the polynomialism that distinguished the operation of various cooperatives. The bill enables the creation of a new model of production, consumption and labour relations, much more in the circumstances of unemployment or underemployment, it offers the prospect of creating a few thousands of jobs, which in future can have a multiplier effect, as it is a economies of scale. Left is present. The social and solidarity economy bill sends this message: Although society spends difficult hours, even though the basic structures of the social state are kept with nails and teeth in the affiliations of economic and labour insecurity, despite unemployment is rampant in the new generation, and in the older ones, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is present to show alternative ways to safeguard dignity, pride and self-respect for the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Anastasios Pratsol from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in these unpleasant times, the basic consequence of economic coexistence is mirrored in the armies of people who either have lost their jobs or are young scientists with many qualifications, but are unable to stand in the labour market and leave the country, this draft law by the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is indeed an innovative, valuable tool to tackle the crisis in the labour market. It is an attempt to create a favourable and, above all, stable environment, which will facilitate the development of the social and solidarity economy, encouraging citizens to participate in economic activities. In essence, it seeks to create an intermediate space between the public and the private initiative. At the same time, gaps and omissions arising from the application of Law 4019/2011 are dealt with. The existing legal framework is being modernised, important issues of everyday life, the economy and society are being solved, while attempting to develop the social and solidarity economy as an autonomous productive activity. Ladies and gentlemen, the concept of cooperative made its appearance for the first time in the early 19th century, while just in 2002 it became aware of its full and official recognition at world level. In our country, of course, it has evolved into another sinful story with infinite distortions. In its present form, in general terms, the social economy has managed to demarcate its place. However, its institutional and legal recognition had not reached the desired level. However, over a thousand two-two COMIPs have already been signed. This shows that new, alternative ways of economic activation are being sought. It is time to try the next step. Apart from the social cooperatives and social cooperatives with limited responsibility, known to all of us so far as the COMMUNICATIONs and the KOSPEs, a new legal person, the workers' association is introduced. The cooperative of workers shall be a cooperative association of at least three natural persons co-operating with a basic aim of being bio-liquid from their work. The aim of this new arrangement is to be used by employees who have been closed or have been bankrupt, but also by a new, skilled workforce, which is difficult to integrate into the labour market. Each economic operator is a legal person and operates on the basis of certain principles: democratic functioning, namely one member, one vote. There are rules on profit distribution: 35% shares employees, and the general assembly is allowed to decide whether this percentage will be kept for reinvestment in the company or for the creation of new jobs. 5% of profits remains a reserve in the company. The balance shall be invested either in order to create new jobs or in order to expand the business's activities. They also lay rules on the way in which social and solidarity economic operators operate. Ladies and gentlemen, a different model of organization of production and distribution of profits is now introduced, having as a fundamental principle collectiveity. This approach can help create new jobs, as well as developing the Gross National Product. In addition, procedures for setting up social and solidarity economic operators shall be simplified by making their register of the General Commercial Register. It is also attempting to decouple the concept of social and solidarity economy by the pro-active core it has been operating up to now and to extend to all sectors of economic activity. At a time when thousands of private enterprises have closed off at the expense of the austerity policies over the last five years, at a time when the new generation, although characterised by high-level education, is forced to emigrate abroad to work there, the new institutional framework of the social and solidarity economy can be an instrument of economic development, but also an incentive for young people to remain and act in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, most of us in this Chamber will agree that the social and solidarity economy so far has not had the support and the financial instruments it should be. The new institutional framework ensures funds from the operational programmes "Human Resources Development, Education and Lifelong Learning" etc. and operational programmes of the thirteen regions of the country. It is our duty to support the creation of cooperative groups. It is certain that until the country finds its walk in the areas of productive reconstruction, it will be an important lever for growth. And then another culture will be cultivated to establish another logic in the economy. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a few words on the current situation, on the position of both the Head of State and the many colleagues in the New Democracy. Gentlemen, black and manipulation of information is not our will. It's far from our culture, from the culture of the Left. Is it yours, why, really, who forgot ERT's black in one afternoon? You should put your mind right that the lawlessness you have cultivated and tolerated for twenty-seven years will end, because democracy and the rule of law are the same for all Greeks. And we will serve it with all our powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Shahinides, from Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although medicine has gone too far, the part that has not been able to do anything is the stupidity of some in this Chamber. Unfortunately, there are some who have a reduced perception. Otherwise a lot of what is said here. There's no cure, and we won't do them a favor to deal with them. As Golden Dawn we wait very eagerly when a draft law on the Greek economy will be tabled and related to the primary sector. So by simply reading the title of the draft law, "Social and solidarity economics and the development of its institutions and other provisions", reading through the articles, reading the reports of the General Accounting Office of the State, reading words, such as "Solidar economy", "self-management" and "self-determination", I was struck by the impression that I was reading some poster from occupation. No relationship - and that is certain - has no intentions and intentions of the current government by covering a part where the Greek people really hurt today. None of this has anything to do with social benefits. We have heard many of the speakers from many of them, including the rapporteurs of the parties. Some people's imagination really must be wrathful. We have also heard from the rapporteur in New Democracy that this draft law is a product of consensus. This morning we heard from a New Democracy speaker that they would not vote for it at first, while the Parliamentary representative and the rapporteur said they would vote for it. So, then, Consensus on what? After you've voted for everything together. We heard the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative referring to a sanitary bomb. Aren't you the ones who voted the hot spot? We didn't vote for them. But let us come to the draft law, to see what remarks we can make. It has many references to many articles, many paragraphs, which are worth interpreting and to see what exactly these articles and paragraphs want to concern us with. We therefore have a reference to Article 2, for example, where as a social and a solidarity economy - it defines all economic activities, which are based on an alternative form of organization of relations between production, distribution, consumption and reinvestment, based on the principles of democracy, equality and solidarity. What can a draft law relating to the economy with democracy and equality have to do with it? Are there enclosures in the economy? Is this also about the cohabitation agreement? Here, then, in Article 2, paragraph 6(d), states:'just and mutual trade'. We didn't know there was such a trade. We know and know some sort of trade, what is going on between people and it is a transaction with money, with goods, with all possible alternative forms of exchange. This is just and mutually based on dialogue, transparency and mutual respect. What trade is it based on dialogue? So when you're going to do a commercial transaction, you're having a dialogue? It also says that it contributes to sustainable development - we expect to see this, ladies and gentlemen of convergence - by offering better conditions for the marketing of products and by ensuring - it says - the rights of marginalized producers and workers. That's it. And it continues: ‘Alongside, it develops overall value chains from the producer to the consumer of products, not with a view to profit accumulation’. This is probably where you work for us. Is it possible to trade without profit? But isn't that what trade is going on? The very previous paragraph states: ‘... local and regionally supported agriculture or livestock farming contributing to the development of direct trade relations between producers and consumers and enhancing accessibility to primary products’. That would, in other words, harm, if I understood well, and those who trade fruit in the people. For twenty, thirty years, some people have invested in trade in people, and here you say that there will be a direct disposal of products exclusively by producers in the people. In other words, people who live solely from the sale of fruit and vegetables to the peoples, should they stop acting professionally? You want, as you say, the self-determination of these products. What self-determination? Who? Have you been to the folk to see how they work? First of all, unfortunately, the majority of producers, who have a producer's licence, sell many other products which do not belong to those which they produce. It should be of paramount importance, and you should give the greatest weight to this part, to the tax evasion that exists through the black money they make from the sales of these goods. A producer who puts a production on a acre cannot sell a quantity corresponding to a hundred acres. You're gonna have to look at these. I am impressed that from the sixty-three articles of this draft law, 20% of them refer to a vulnerable, vulnerable group, the Roma. And these thirteen articles fall under the anti-racist law, for you are legislating for a particular group of people, you are giving them benefits in all the other benefits they already have. I will ask you a simple thing: How is it now almost all of this - not to be absolute - a percentage of the Roma of 95% who are illiterate to possess diplomas? How have they run tests? What did they read? You're giving them too much help. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We're not stopping here. The majority of young women get two allowances, one every month. They are presented as polytecs, single mothers. And here you want to legislate, with thirteen more articles, on a particular vulnerable group. Today in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, the most vulnerable group that exists is the poor Greeks. Finally legislate for the poor Greeks! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much. Mrs Chryssoula Katsavria - Siropoulou. It's the last colleague for today. Immediately after that, the Minister will make a brief speech and then we will vote in the first place. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, everything that is being discussed in the public sphere is political. However, institutional improvement in the conditions of the organization and functioning of the social and solidarity economy is an interesting field in all respects, as it enables social science, ideology and politics to prove their reflexes. Indeed, the social business is at the heart of economic and social integration. It is certainly not the first time that it has come to the fore of reflection. Already from Saint Simon and Furiere we have historical examples that may be useful both in theoretical and purely practical terms. Those examples might have been able to disappoint us, as they degenerate and collapsed, but I do not know whether the reasons for that failure have ever been seriously analysed. I have to say, however, that I have always been aware of the certainities of strict liberalism and consistent and rigid Marxism. One certainty claims that the effective fulfilment of human needs is the work of the private business and the self-regulated market, armed with Adam Smith's invisible iron hand. Here we have control over nature by imposing capital on labour. The other certainty claims that people can live well when the production of goods is done by controlling nature from work itself, as part of a centrally planned economic and social activity. Unfortunately, any other approach is devastated in the'millstones' of competition of these certainties. What if recent history fills endless pages with crises of capitalism, bloody wars, injustice, inequality, poverty and unemployment? What if some versions of consistent Marxism resulted either in the administration of capitalist production or in the time of oblivion? I regret to say that some reservations from the New Democracy, like the JRC's criticism of the bill, have the starting point for such assurances. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about colloquiums, nor about an ideological school for capitalism. We are talking about a good, social and solidarity economy. It can be adopted and proposed by the OECD. Capitalism may not be disturbed in the United States of America, Canada, Italy, Spain. Because, indeed, GDP rises and is facing a number of social problems. But it does not stop unjust economic and social human beings having an employment, having a piece of bread, making their own small communities, finding a meaning and a purpose through voluntary collective activities. And I would like to ask the following question here: why should this not be a good training centre for socialism and why not give all opportunities, all the opportunities for social economy to become the dominant way of production? Instead of recycleing stereotypes, it might be better to tackle problems, such as the nature of man today, his needs, the possibilities of transforming society, ending all forms of violence, confirming the values of freedom, equality and justice. In the context of a mixed economy, nothing forbids us from coexistence in public, private and social matters and nothing prevents the development of productive forces and the traceability of another way of production. Without any illusion that such alternative initiatives are easy, I think it is worth trying to test the subjective factor in its ability to grow, give substantial content in social relations, in the field of production, and ultimately go beyond the coercion of violence and manipulation. An agreement at this level would be a wonderful agreement, because we would shift the field of confrontation into a more creative direction, because we could incorporate the idea of effectiveness into the added value of collective and social liberation. I am pleased that the good, as this bill has been called, reinstated the 2011 framework on a more solid basis, having regard to the imperfections and relatively poor results of its implementation. I hope that his vote will contribute to the pursuit of the best. And here I would like to congratulate Minister Rania Antonopoulou on the great work he has done in relation to this bill. Allow me, Mr President, to conclude by saying a few words about the establishment of the General Secretariat on the vulnerable Roma group. Those who really deal with this issue, as happens to be the case with me, have found the enormous administrative difficulties that prevent any initiative from being implemented in relation to these fellow citizens. I believe that the explanation of the Minister, Mrs Fotio, that the coordination of the ministries' services on a subject may be carried out at the General Secretariat and above, makes it unnecessary for any further debate and I do not think that insistence on an opposition argument that says that we want another state, a more state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor. I think you're five minutes away, don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u231	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased with the comments on the law. Once again I have heard your views. Of course, it is not all opposition parties who agree that the law is helpful, on the one hand, to restrict the problems to a great extent, to the problems that have been created because of the gaps in the previous law. I would also like to say that I am delighted that the opposition parties have been creatively involved in this process. There are many very critical issues in which there is no understanding, because it is precisely because there are micro-political issues - I do not want to focus so much on the reasoning - that there are differences that exist, without ultimately bringing the opposition to our place, so that we can support those basic issues for which we need consensus. I referred to that this morning. These are issues relating to debt management, issues relating to the current problem of immigration and the refugee issue. There's no consensus. Here, then, I would just like to say that there will be many more cases and themes where a fruitful dialogue can take place, so that we can coordinate ourselves as a country to deal with these major problems. I would like to say two words, the first concerning whether this space, the social and solidarity economy, brings socialism. We see today a Greece that has over a million unemployed, has a labour market that is so deregulation, there is undeclared work, rotating work, half-employment, normal workers who have to pay three months, five months, eight months. We have 40 percent working in full-time and getting under the minimum wage. In these circumstances, when I hear colleagues from the JRC saying that we must actually sit with crossed hands, we cannot do anything, I say, that government says and supports and is trying, if we can, to help ten thousand, twenty thousand people, to support them in order to have a better standard of living, but also to control their lives. Social and solidarity economy is not just an alternative, collaborative way of production. It is at every stage, in every process of life, to be able to make decisions in a collective way, along with others who agree on basic principles and to be able to identify conditions through which you live, work to a much greater extent than possible, without a good institutional framework like what we have recommended. As to where the social economy is going and whether we can implement what we are planning for, I would like to say that the strategic planning for the social economy already exists - we can discuss it and present it - and it has three levels. We have been preparing this since the first time we took up our duties. Apart from the fact that it is a horizontal priority, as the Prime Minister has said many times, our interventions are, firstly, at institutional level, secondly, from the point of view of the tools to support the business activities and the projects proposed and, thirdly, as regards the tools of publicity. And on these three levels we have specified our actions. The first and most important issue we have to deal with is an institutional framework so that the resources available and the resources available can really catch a place. So we start with the adoption of the law and in very short time we will see in both the regions and the municipalities what'social economy' means. But if this area is to be developed, it cannot be done by a ministerial decision and by a bill. At local level, where necessary, we must all contribute. The fact that opposition to the majority of it is in favour of this bill and the social economy area makes me hopefully we will be able to work together in this direction. As far as articles and comments on articles are concerned, we will discuss them again tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity bill: 'Social and solidarity economics and development of its institutions and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u237	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u243	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Social and solidarity economy and the development of its institutions and other provisions" was accepted in the first place by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-19-S1-commons.u244	With the consent of the House at 18.44 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, October 20, 2016 at 9.30', on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny: topical and urgent debate; b) legislative work: continuation of the debate and vote on the articles and draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Social and solidarity economy and development of its institutions and other provisions".
