ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. The meeting's on. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: "Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country - Establishment of a Development Council and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents - I would remind you - decided at its meeting on 9-6-2016 to discuss the draft law in two meetings. I propose to you the following change: Instead of having a debate today on the principle and the evening vote at first, and taking time and tomorrow to continue in the articles and possibly re-voking articles, etc., I propose that the debate on the draft law should become uniform today in principle, on the articles and on the possible amendments. So far, ministerial amendments have not been tabled. I have been informed that Mr Muzala's amendment may be tabled. Am I right, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u2	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u3	Finally, amendments! We were worried that the government did not bring any amendments!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u4	This amendment, I have asked for it to be tabled tonight, distributed, seen by the House and Mr Mousalas coming tomorrow morning to defend it, so that you have the time and you have seen it, prepared and discussed tomorrow on the amendment. I hope there will be no more. Now, in return for this unified debate, I suggest that the rapporteurs and special speakers instead of fifteen minutes speak for eighteen minutes today, that is, an increased time, the parliamentary representatives instead of twelve minutes speaking for fifteen minutes, also have an increased time, and speakers seven minutes. Of course, for the rapporteurs, speakers and parliamentary representatives tonight, there will also be a small tolerance of one to two minutes if needed. Therefore, tomorrow we will normally continue at the same rate, especially as colleagues who will be enrolled. I have been informed that some forty Members have spoken in committee, which means that at least fifty of them will be registered, so there is another reason to accept the proposal I make, because the Members who will be enrolled will also be served to speak as many as possible. So if we agree, with increased time tonight, to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u6	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, the proposal sounds very good. And we would, as such, agree a guarantor of which you are, who introduce the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u8	It will be a guarantee of the proposal, first of all, that it will be approved by Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u9	After it has been approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u10	Because I am offended by the decision of the Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u11	After approval, the Bureau shall ensure that the agreed arrangements are complied with. And because we have several times the complaint that we are invoking what you have recommended and the President-in-Office tell us 'I do not know what you are saying to me, it will be done', I would very much like you to follow the implementation of this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u12	The President has been informed and agreed, however.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u13	Listen, Mr President, it is a very good proposal if there are no other amendments. Not by Mr. Stathakis. Mr. Stathakis doesn't know, he's a minister. If the government bears other amendments, it will open a circle on them. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to tell us when this process will end. Because the procedure usually compresses on the second day and there are too many Members left with the complaint that they have not been expressed. I would like you to tell us when you are planning to put an end to today's sitting, but to know what we are going to do tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u14	This was after your approval. I'd tell you what I'm proposing for the hours. Definitely tonight, not before the twelfth. Maybe we should go for an hour later. Tomorrow it will depend firstly on how many Members will be present, and secondly, whether at a reasonable time, around noon, that is to say, the Bureau has an idea whether or not there will be a roll-call vote, you can see that time will also be fixed. However, whether there is or does not exist, we shall go to the ugly, difficult to have a roll-call vote no less than 10 o'clock at night. We'll have a 12-hour meeting. We'll be from 10:00 in the morning till 10:00 in the evening. Today we'll definitely go by 12 o'clock and, if necessary, maybe we'll go for an hour later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I am listening here to colleagues who say about Thursday. I want you to let this House know that it was finally accepted...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u16	Leave Thursday. It's the vote on the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u17	Why is he in total? It's determined, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u18	Yes, leave that, Mr. Loverdo. We have this in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u20	Here, Mr. Gregorako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I listened with interest to your proposal. I know, you're an experienced parliamentarian, with many positions in society. But I have seen that you, Mr President, have also made the mistake that the Members of Parliament, with their tolerance, will have the floor and will have the floor for the speakers with the tolerance and more, and these wretched Members will be confined to seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u22	You weren't in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u23	Mr. President, please. These are sensations from your side. But if amendments are tabled, as Mr Loverdos said, by a number of other ministers tomorrow morning, Mr President, which will not be you in the Step, another President will come and will again reduce the Members' time to six or five minutes, so that parliamentary representatives, speakers or government ministers can have plenty of time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u24	Mr Gregorakos, you are now wrong with the Bureau because you did not understand what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u25	I absolutely understand, Mr President, and you should at some point be consistent with what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u26	No, you didn't understand and listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u27	Mr. President, let me go. You come here often and you have been having conversations in the House lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u28	Good. I heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u29	You are committing this House to what you say the next day - you are now telling us that you told the President of Parliament, but that is not saying anything - another President, who is not you, who does not believe what you say and does the opposite of that. So every time, Mr President, the Members are the victims. And since you have been a parliamentarian for many years, you must protect Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u30	Mr Gregoraco, I do not accept your remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, neither do I accept... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u32	I heard you and you will now listen to me. I do not accept them first because you did not understand that the parliamentary representatives would have twelve minutes of prototype today and, if we did, twelve minutes of prototype tomorrow, that is, twenty-four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u33	I don't care about parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u34	That's all. Let me finish. Please, I heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u35	You want yours to pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u36	Secondly, the same applies to the rapporteurs and speakers. So since the debate is being consolidated, they are entitled to have increased time. As far as Members are concerned, the remarks not to me. Because you know very well, because I am old, like you, that I do everything in favour of colleagues. And it is never a time-consuming one if colleagues do not agree, at least when I am in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u37	But you're not here all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u38	Well, well, what should we do? I can't be here 12 hours. We agreed that we will start with the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the Minister will follow, and then we will alternately, as we do, three Members, a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u39	Did we take care of it? Is it closed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u40	It's closed, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I should like to say that, with your responsibility and sensitivity, the House must express its condemnation of what happened yesterday at the offices of the SCAI television station. I am not talking about judiciary decisions and the functioning of justice. That's another matter. I am referring to the unprecedented event of entering the classroom, with research into all rooms, toilets and everything, for reasons that no one has understood. This is unprecedented post-government, as far as I know. He underlined it and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u42	Now, what does that have to do with the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u43	If the House does not agree to make a unanimous condemnation, the Democratic Reconciliation expresses its own condemnation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u44	Every rapporteur or any parliamentary representative from this House has the right, if he wishes, to join your position and if all the parliamentary representatives accept it and be placed in the course of their speech, then at the end of the day what you said will be done. But I cannot impose anyone in advance. The Parliamentary Representatives are: From SYRIZA Mr.Femelos, from New Democracy Mr. Dendias, from Golden Dawn Mr. Lagos, from the Democrat Association Mr. Loverdos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanossopoulos, from Potami Mr. Danelis, from ANEL Mr. Kammenos and from the Central Association Mr. Karras. To open up a registration system for colleagues and close when Mrs Asmakopoulou is finished. Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new development bill is being introduced to plenary today, which we hope will soon be the new growth engine of the Greek economy, which will be fundamentally different and qualitatively different from previous practices. The framework within which this law is being discussed is a narrow financial framework, with an economy in full deorganisation, the result of the policies that have been carried out for years, not only in the years of the memorandum, but also in the past. What's that frame? Complete dismantling of the productive sector of the country, complete deindustrialisation, a significant reduction in the agri-food sector, no investment in high-tech enterprises. 95% of the investment projects in previous development laws concerned low and medium-tech investments, growth investments rather than quality in tourism. There was a waste of money to friends and friends through overpriceds that were never checked. In addition, bureaucracy was the alibi to favour those who attracted the political leadership in question. Finally, full inequality of funding, so that our country is at the highest levels of economic inequality in the European Union. These features are that make up a drug-drug field for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece. This field was strengthened and shaped by the development laws in Greece. They were laws without a development vision and clear productive directions. In this context and given the failure of the previous development laws - which not only failed to change the development model, but inherited us 6.4 billion in unfinishedness in some six thousand investment projects - the government is coming to legislate on the new development law. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you could have a little quiet, let's hear what we're talking about. It is a law focusing on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a law, which, from the outset, lays the foundations for a new development model, focusing on and premiuming development sectors, which are a comparative advantage for our country, while at the same time focusing on reducing regional inequality. The new development law, however, is not the only tool in place for the Greek state and the Greek economy. The country’s development planning will be complemented and complemented by other financial instruments such as the Research and Innovation Fund, the Rural Development Programme and the sectoral and regional programmes of the ESRB. The first article of this development law states the different ideological approach taken by the government. To promote balanced development, but with respect for environmental resources and support for disadvantaged regions in the country, to increase employment, to improve cooperation, to develop a new extroverted national identity, to improve competitiveness in areas of high added value and intensified knowledge, to seek to produce more complex products, to offer better services, are the aims of the new development law. These aims will be served by a series of new development design features brought by this law. Because the bill that it brings to the House today is incorporating a number of innovations, compared with the oldest development laws. It is not an improved version of previous laws, but a deep study of the current state of the economy, the country's development prospects and the best practical development incentives that exist in other countries. These characteristics are as follows: First, the differentiation in the composition of the financial instruments. There is particular emphasis on the incentive to tax exemption for other means of subsidy, particularly for the grant. This is how it becomes clear that we are aiming at developing a healthy entrepreneurship aimed at the viability of the investment project. We want tax exemption to reach 45% of all subsidies, thus approaching the European average, which is 54%. We must point out that the tax exemption has been granted for 15 years. In this way we are subsidising performance rather than chasing expenditure. In order to achieve this objective, the grant rate is reduced to 70% of the grant resulting from the regional aid map. In this way, the grant and tax exemption are equal to the present value of the aid. In the absence of such a provision, it is clear that a large majority of enterprises would opt for the grant, thus effectively removing this basic section of the law. The other financial instruments, in addition to the two mentioned, are the leasing subsidy, i.e. leasing, the subsidising of the costs of the job created, the stabilisation of an income tax rate for large investment projects and the financing of risk through the Equity Fund. Second important feature is the definition of eight aid schemes. This provision is the essential innovation, which enables the new development law to give the development guidelines to the economy. In previous development laws, all the investment projects were based on a common competitive basis. Is that a result? Funding investment projects, which at the time constituted the trend of the market independently, however, if they were to serve the country's development model. In this way, 75% of the investment projects financed under the previous development laws were directed to only two areas of development. The creation of the eight aid schemes creates protectionist environments for areas which must be the embryonic of productive reconstruction. In particular, the eight aid schemes are as follows: Aid for machinery equipment. Provision is made for aid, with tax exemptions for the costs of machinery equipment and means of transport within the undertaking. This scheme is particularly attractive for enterprises that want rapid integration, with little criteria, without a competitive process. Secondly, general entrepreneurship. This scheme is the general category of subsidies, which includes all enterprises eligible under the law, that is, that is to say, the previous development laws. Thirdly, new independent small and medium-sized enterprises. The aim of this scheme is to provide a complete framework of incentives to create new independent business initiatives in newly created or independent small and medium-sized enterprises. Fourth scheme, innovative investments for small and medium-sized enterprises. The scheme is intended for small and medium-sized enterprises to carry out investment projects aimed at producing innovative products or introducing organisational and procedural innovations. Fifth aid scheme, business associations or, "Greek", clubs. The aim of the scheme is to promote the competitiveness of enterprises involved in cooperative schemes. The scheme may involve companies, as well as research and dissemination of knowledge, non-profit organisations and other relevant economic operators. It is important at this point to mention that, in the context of the debate on committees, the Ministry, by adapting to the demands of actors, but also certain parties in the opposition, reduced the number of companies required to create a list. Finally, they are set in six for Attiki and Thessaloniki and four for the rest of Greece. Sixth scheme, financial intermediaries - equity funds. This scheme is also an innovation of the law. The aim of the scheme is to establish Participation Funds or further specific Funds and to involve the Greek State in them through investment activities, with the aim of increasing the innovative content of small and medium-sized enterprises and their export capacity, as well as increasing employment. A key tool in this scheme is the leverage of resources to achieve multiplier investment results. Seventh scheme: Integrated spatial and sectoral plans. It is an even innovative investment approach aimed at removing regional disparities and encouraging private partnerships with knowledge research and dissemination bodies, as well as local authorities. There are two innovations here. One is the regional dimension of an integrated spatial framework, as well as cooperation with research, innovation, knowledge dissemination and local authorities. The aim of the scheme is to increase, but also to protect employment and exploit the comparative advantages of a region. The scheme supports enterprises and collaborative formations at regional and interregional level, with a compulsory participation of at least eight actors. And this number, of the eight bodies, was reduced during the discussion of the law in committees. Last is the eighth scheme: Investments of major size. The aim of the scheme is to create a secure investment environment, which will facilitate the implementation of very large investment projects in our country. In the case of aid types, emphasis is placed on aid, without a budgetary burden, such as a stable tax regime for twelve years and a process of speeding up the authorisation. The third important feature of this law, since I said the two preceding ones, is the maximum and minimum levels of aid. The total amount of aid per investment project submitted shall not exceed 5 million per investment project, 10 million per enterprise and 20 million per group. This maximum ceiling, set, will contribute to the dispersion of investment projects, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises. There has been a great debate here. We understand that, above all, the Qualified Opposition wants to favour large investment projects. But we believe that the backbone of the national economy is and must be the small and medium-sized enterprises, which will also produce more jobs. The Minister made this clear to the committees and I think it is absolutely right. After all, it is characteristic that in previous development laws only 4% of the investment projects absorbed 44% of the resources available. In this way, previous development laws have contributed to increasing economic inequality, in which Greece is unfortunately in the top positions of the European Union. This inequality has been shown to contribute to the dedevelopment rather than to the development of a country. We, this mistake is not going to go on with it. And because I have said the highest levels, I will also say the minimum levels of investment projects, which are set, then again, for the committees, at 75 000 for the JEPs, at 100,000 for the micro-enterprises, at 150,000 for small businesses, at 250,000 for medium-sized enterprises and for clusters and at 500,000 for large businesses. As I said before, these limits were differentiated in consultation with the institutions, but also with the parties, which is proof that the Ministry is listening to and better formulating the legislative framework. The fourth feature is the elimination of the same participation. The Ministry recognises the unfavourable conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises because of the crisis. For this reason, it is envisaged that the same participation may be covered either by borrowing or other sources of external financing. The fifth feature of the law is the special categories of aid. A significant part of the new development law is the setting of specific categories of aid. These are determined by both geographical criteria and by form and performance criteria. The specific categories benefit from larger grants where they are provided for the type of aid or grants where they are not provided for the investment projects concerned. The aim of this choice is to combat the various kinds of disadvantages. This includes mountain areas, island areas, border areas and large population declining areas. Investment projects are also included in these areas, implemented in organised receptors. Secondly, the strengthening of specific business forms, such as the COMPAs, the cooperatives, the firms that have been involved in the merger. Thirdly, aid to enterprises with a significant service to development areas, such as technology and information technology and agri-food. Fourthly, aid to enterprises characterised as innovative, extroverting, dynamic in terms of employment growth and those that produce high added value compared to the average of their industry. This law introduces a new institution, which attempts to develop policies of a development nature, the institution of the Development Council. The Development Council will consist of two main pillars: the Scientific Committee and the Committee on Social Partners and Public Administration. The draft law also provides for extensions for existing investment projects and in particular a new deadline for completion by 31 March 2017 of the investment projects, which have been subject to the provisions of n. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, In the event that the investment project is implemented by 31 March 2017, the deadline for completion shall be extended until 30 June 2018. The deadline for the completion of the investment projects subject to the provisions of Law 3299/2004 and the deadline for their completion shall be extended until 31 December 2016 until 30 June 2018, subject to the implementation of 50% of the approved costs of the investment project by 31 March 2017. Mr President, I will need your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u46	What I said at the beginning, though, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u47	Yes, Mr. President. Furthermore, the deadline for the completion of the investment projects that have been subject to the provisions of Law 3908/2011 is extended until 30 June 2017 for those that joined until 2012 and until 31 December 2017 for the investment projects that joined in 2013 and 2014. For these investment projects, the amount of the grant shall be paid in seven annual instalments. At this point we must respond to a criticism that is being made of the great amount of time for the investment projects of previous development laws to be repaid. We must point out that the new law provides an extension for their implementation. For the first time, their payment is ensured, while they have been integrated without certain funding. Transparency shall be ensured in the control and disbursement classification of the aid through the State aid information system. It is possible to reduce the rate of own contribution by 25%, to speed up the procedures through the establishment of the National Register of Certified Auditors and to increase their remuneration. No pre-authorisation of the bank loan is required for completion. However, we must see, in any case, some projects which, while completing 50% of the investment, had not received any part of the grant. In order not to abuse the President's tolerance, I will say the following and close. Ladies and gentlemen, as demonstrated during the debate with the institutions, the new development bill enjoys acceptance of the country's productive classes. Thus, the main argument for counterpopulation is that the producers are opposed to the law. This bill embodies the government's ideological identity for development. But its details have been written in collaboration with the operators in an exhaustive consultation process. We are absolutely certain that this bill will be an important weapon in the fortress of the Greek economy for the productive reconstruction of the country. We invite you to overcome the party claws and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u48	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, after long waiting, the new development law comes to the plenary session. Mr. Stathakis told us he was coming last summer, then told us he was coming by Christmas, then the Prime Minister told us he was coming in January, then they told us he was coming in March and coming today. The Minister also assured that the law would have retroactive effect, which was based on investors. So this bill is coming today with a huge delay and certainly has no retrospective application. For retrospective power, the Minister told us that it was an excessive statement. What if investors were based on this? That's their problem! For the delay, the Minister is justified that it is the 'bad' troika, that the law has been involved in the vortex of the first evaluation of the third SYRIZA - ANEL Memorandum. It is not a very original excuse, if I may, Mr Minister, but a less original and second excuse, that it is our fault! Of course, it is always our fault, it is well known! But it is our fault that we have left many investment projects open. Because of course, there were many investment projects, as there was an investment interest. So, what does the Minister do after there were a lot of plans? In Articles 76, 77 and 78 of the Law concerning the extension and completion of investment projects by previous laws, i.e. the Law. Case 3299/2004 Commission ν Italy 3908/2011, the previous investors are avenged, it gives them only nine months to implement 50% of the natural object, without taking into account that we have capital controls, that the banks are not lending, that these people pay guarantee letters. Without taking this into account, then, it gives them nine months. By the way, Minister, I had the feeling that in the quarter - because you had given them six months - it would apply to everyone. If that is your intention, there is a legal improvement in the text. If it's not your intention, you've given some nine months. And of course, I left the best: he'll pay them back in seven years. So the Minister simply, with a smile, destroys every concept of the state's continuation and at the same time yesterday, in the margin of the General Assembly of the Industrial Association of Northern Greece, says Mr Stathakis: "I don't think there is anyone who can make a safe prediction at this time about when the capital controls will be lifted." We leave them to mercy. I make Mr Statakis' statement on the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Minister, we reiterate our request, in understanding the current financial constraints, to address investors in previous laws, not avenge them, but objectively and fairly. There have been investors who have been requesting integration for over a year and a half and have done nothing about the Ministry for your days to respond to them. These investors have completed the investment at 100%. As also, there are investors who complete the investment within the timescales that the Ministry, the Greek State, has defined them. Why, then, should these investors be punished? At least you should give them a priority. And apart from tax incentives - because this is the alternative of seven years of grant - you must also make settlings. Keep HISBIA in mind, as you do now with the settling. However, at least make compensation for the subsidies, with all the debts these people have to bear to the state. Mr President, I started with this issue of the ideological and avengemental treatment of investors in previous laws, because it is so crucial, that only for that reason could our attitude to the bill be negative and be justified. This is a bill, which I note is that, apart from the self-evident and common things that we all say, growth is a good thing, that we want to reduce unemployment and social inequalities - all of us are common objectives - it has no connection to a specific development plan. This, of course, is due to the fact that the government does not have a development plan. You told us, Minister, that there is an executive summer of a project, that something is about to be prepared by the EIC. I would remind you that the development plan was also a Memorandum, which should have been completed by March this year. It will, of course, be the 'bad' troika for the delay, I suppose! That's what the Prime Minister will say tomorrow at the Concert Hall. I just wanted to know, Mr Stathakis, whether it would be included in the study and the exploitation of cannabis! I read with interest in the question - which can be found by anyone on the website of this House - tabled by thirty-six SYRIZA Members, led by Mr Balaura, that 'with the legalisation of the cultivation of cannabis there will be a revitalization of the rural economy and processing, a resumption of exports of cannabis products, after many decades of set-aside, as well as the strengthening of the insurance funds, which will be saved from the expensive prescription products of the pharmaceutical industry'! Here's an interesting development perspective for the country, Minister! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] To clarify a little more our negative attitude to this piece of legislation, I also tell you, Minister, that you do not legislate in empty air. We need to look at the economic situation in which we are at. And I explain and substantiate an outline on some of the economic situation of the time: We are in a third consecutive quarter of recession and according to Eurostat we are the only country in the European Union, which in the first quarter of 2016 is in recession. Investments in 2015 decreased by 13.1%. We were deprived of five billion euros. Another EUR 5 billion has been deprived of exports which decreased by 3.8% in 2015. Due to the protracted political uncertainty, 40 billion euros have left the banks, which have capital control, which we do not know when to leave. The turnover of industrial enterprises decreased 10.4% in 2015. Greece has retreated six positions in the global competitiveness ranking, according to the IMD World Yearbook. A payment stop has been declared by the government and the state’s dues to private individuals have increased 80% since 2015. According to GAME, more businesses close than they open. The balance is now negative. From 1st of the year to May, fifteen thousand four hundred forty-five enterprises have been closed. And of course, you have recently legislated measures of EUR 9 billion - a real tax storm - measures to eliminate businesses and free trade. You have cut pensions, abolished the CSCE and increased the indirect taxes of EUR 1.8 billion. This is, according to the Minister, the successful, mild financial adjustment, which is guaranteed in the biennial, because it will be done automatically with the best-known cutter! In this context you bring the new development law and tell us that the development law - that is what we will now hear from the Minister, that is what we will hear from Mr Tsipras - together with other financial instruments will bring growth and, indeed, in 2016. You said yesterday, Mr Stathakis, to the SBBE: In the second half of 2016 the Greek economy will be reintroduced into a positive figure and, indeed, with rapid results. Members of the government, such as Mr Drasakis, like Mrs Gerovasili, like Mr Haritsis, say they will fall into the real economy by the end of the year 8, 9, 10, 12 billion euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u50	It's EUR 14 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u51	It's EUR 14 billion, Minister! Yes, sir! It's 14 billion euros! I don't have that statement. For the record, I am tabling the statements made by the ministers to whom I have referred. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So at the moment, I would like to see - because these are predictions - what the State General Accounting Office says about this legislation. It is therefore foreseen that the development law will give EUR 400 million to grants, EUR 80 million to leasing and EUR 27 million to tax incentives by 2022. Don't think that's it for this year, because for this year's development law will give the Greek economy, which will take off with this amazing tool, the shocking sum of zero euros! That's all the development law will give this year. In conclusion, I will use the phrase used by the President of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, 'the development law is a 'licensed shirt'. And as long as you unresponsively celebrate the development, the business community, the market, the "bug" we say, where free professionals and businessmen are struggling every day to get them 80% of what they make, they are in despair and they know that the disaster is going on. We have heard thirty bodies at the hearing. I think it is not worth making the communal controversy about how many comments have been incorporated and whether the market is expressed. You give money, however little. What will they tell you? That they don't want them? [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] I will also welcome it - and I have already experienced it - that the Secretary-General, Mr Labrianides, has indeed heard all the comments and on the basis of the political guidelines he has incorporated some of them. Some of these comments are fair and correct and you will see that we in our proposals are adopting them in writing. But it's not over there. You may not have heard the bodies tell you that you are destroying them with taxation, because there was no one who said so. I assume you will read the study by EBEA that says seven out of ten Greeks are unable to meet their tax obligations. They told you about a lack of liquidity. You - and from what I am reading tomorrow - are trying to convince us that it is about to rain money from the Waver, from the NSRF, from the Juncker package. There is also Mr Haritsis here, who, where he stands and where he finds himself, tells us that by the end of the year he will have activated 50% of the ESDP. That's very interesting. Activation is a right step, but absorption is what counts. Besides, you're the one who's proud of the absorption you achieved in the previous one. The absorption is the one that counts. The absorption, therefore, on the basis of your own data, is 1.88%. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So when you improve the percentage of absorption, that is, they'll drop money on the market, then you can talk. Currently, no one is interested in planning you for activation. I also note that in any other indicator and look at the legal commitments it is at 2.96%. I present the relevant table in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Money on the market from the Juncker package. A project has entered the Juncker package, and that's private. You had nothing to do with this. From the list of public works, which was forty-two, and now it's gone over every time I see it on some public source available online, nothing has happened. Is any of these works mature? Are you going to tell me they're going to throw money into these projects by 2016? Zero from the Juncker package, zero from the development law, zero plus zero does zero, Minister! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] After the program of Thessaloniki where "the hope comes" and after the parallel program, your new communication account is obvious that it has the title "the development comes". I beg your pardon, but that is what we say 'no'. We will not tolerate you once again making fun of the Greek people. The position of the New Democracy is perfectly clear. Development will come from the private sector, from entrepreneurship and it is not possible to come with this level of taxation, it is not possible. Taxation should be reduced. If this is not the case, no investments will be made. The existing companies, which are zombies, will start to close after one another, will increase unemployment and collapse public revenues. This is the predetermined course of things. And despite what you have said - and I told you in committee - you understand this somewhere because you and your rapporteur argue that it is good for development law - and I agree that we are leaving grants and going to tax incentives. The ratio was 95% to 5% in the previous law, and now you did it 45% tax incentives, while the average European term is 54%. And you said that's good. What's the tax incentives, Minister? Tax reduction is tax incentives and stability in taxation, in order to attract investment! But it is not the point that you do not understand. The point is, you don't want to. You don't believe in investment. You can barely do them when you do them, then either weep or criticize them, as happened with the airports and the Greeks. The investment in Greek will bring ten thousand jobs with the "good morning", sixty thousand with the completion of the project and the Greek economy will benefit with 8 billion euros. The EUR 8 billion is almost what you estimate will bring the entire development law into the Greek economy if it is activated and implemented in the next six years. An investment equals all development law. But for you, it's not important, because otherwise you would have done it a year and a half ago. For you it's the line of negotiation. It's the reaction to the fact that they put your knife in your throat, to take the dose, and after you did it, you are a divided political entity! "AGEY" says "What a good thing that we changed and became nice" and Mr Spirtz says it hurts, because he does not like the price. So we're not going anywhere. That's how no investors come. So the world won't find a job. So our children won't come back from abroad. So we will have other 'PRISES' and 'LEDRA MARRIOTT'. We are not only interested in new investments and new businesses, and that is why we have also made this criticism. We are interested in the balance being positive by not closing down the existing businesses, not losing the world's job and being on the road and opening new positions. That's the target. In this sense, Mr President, I think I have fully explained 'no' in principle, 'no' in mocking. And I could stop here. However, because I know that this bill will be passed by majority votes - we have been shown by colleagues, by voting much more brutal things for the Greek people, they will not stick to the development law - we have made you a very specific criticism of the bill, which I re-evaluate. Firstly, the combination of the general and specific part of the scheme and the eight schemes described by your rapporteur create investment incentives. You've suffered a mania with the cutters, I think. This bill has been cut at the rate of aid, cut to the amount that the beneficiary can receive, cut to the total of the aid entitled to the whole of the undertakings of a group, cut to the types of aid that the beneficiary may receive. In addition, you limit beneficiaries by means of the method of economic strangulation. You don't give them an advance. Uh, how's the other guy going without giving him an advance? There was this in the previous law. In order to make it more difficult for them, you are making it more difficult for them to make a monster: 30 ministerial decisions to be activated, committees, directives, support manuals, an electronic system - and all of this is said to be done in three months, we will see it - the evaluation committees, the examination of objections, the management of registers, opinions, and a difficult and complex board with two subcommittees - the development board and the scientific committee - where you will effectively help your own people again. Moreover, the evaluation process, which is extremely critical, becomes as opaque as one can make it. He was two evaluators plus one to solve the differences between them. Now he's an evaluator, mentioned by the Ministry, he refers to you and you decide who you want to join. Don't make any expenses. Just put on the ones you want! So our specific proposals on the articles, Mr Minister, have been written to you in committee. These issues are being dealt with and, for the sake of short-term time, I say to you: We insist in particular on the corrections made in Article 8 to abolish the self-sufficiency of the payroll subsidy scheme, Articles 14 to 17 for the evaluation procedure, Article 20 for the payment of aid by offsetting, Articles 24 and 25 for the register of assessors, transparency and timelines. We need investors to know how to proceed with the implementation of the development law and on the basis of your final position, we will, in fact, be placed by our vote at the end of the meeting. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in development are saying 'yes'. In him, however, the anti-developmental law you bring to the National Delegation today, we say "no", because we say no to your mockery, because we say no to your lies, because we say no to your illusions, because we say no to the destruction that is taking place in the country because of your ideology, incompetence and late authority. Development won't come either mockery or lies or delusional. In other words, growth will not come with the Tsipras - Kammenos Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u52	The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Evangelos Karakostas, should come to Stepma. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Quiet in the Chamber, please! Here, you have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u53	This draft law brings nothing new. It is a follow-up to the development laws, Law 3299/2004 and Law 3908/2011 on State aid for investment projects across Greece. These laws did not provide adequate incentives and did not, as expected, have any effect on the development of our country's economy. On the contrary, their failure to restructure the Greek economy was even more serious. The absence of specific sectoral or horizontal objectives, the pressures of each strong lobby and the inability to identify the dynamic sectors of the Greek economy. It has already completed two years since April 2014, which does not have an active development law for the country, which, in combination with the circumstances that have formed development counter-stimulating, has further aggravated the investment activity. In theory, the new law would offer new attractive incentives to a larger share of entrepreneurs, aimed at reversing the negative investment climate and realising substantial economic growth. But how will this happen when you say that you are strengthening the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, the backbone of every local economy, while promoting the business mergers or, respectively, the stimulus of the fixed tax rate only for investments of more than EUR 20 million? In a development law where there are clearly proclamations of aid for small and medium -sized enterprises, they remain on just a few pages of paper. Because, basically, those who benefit from the government's policies are not one of the usual suspects, the capitalists, who have been receiving for decades the provocative privileged treatment of an anti-national regime. Small and medium-sized enterprises are placed on the margins of economic life, resulting in their disappearance. It is characteristic and should be pointed out that only for the first five months of 2016, about fifteen and a half thousand companies have put a padlock on, plunging thousands of our compatriots into unemployment. If you want, we can also see the corresponding figures for the period since 2009, when the economic crisis has started that is plagued by Greece. In these years, two hundred and fifty thousand businesses put a lock, leading to eight hundred thousand workers in unemployment. As you can see, the Minister of Economy's assessment of the creation of fifteen thousand two hundred and two hundred jobs by 2022 is just a poor contribution of the law to work. The unemployment rate in February last year was 24.2% and the corresponding percentage for young people was among the highest in the European Union and reached 51.4%. According to new surveys, more than 20% of the Greek population is below the extreme poverty line, when this was 8.9% in 2011, while in 2009 it was less than 2.2%. You have taken a lot of hard and unfair material measures and you have currently ejected VAT to 24%. Insurance contributions are high and are a gravel for all freelance professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises. It is worth mentioning some articles in the draft law, starting with the applicable law in Article 3, according to which the law of the European Union prevails and other investment projects are subject to the approval of the European Commission. We are therefore talking about a fully controlled development policy by creditors not by a so-called sovereign state but by the institutions, which means a reduction in our national sovereignty at economic level. Despite the legislative improvement in Article 5 on the minimum amount of subjection to development law, it is important to stress that the amounts are kept unchanged and that the evaluation does not take into account demographic and geographical elements and specificities, as we pointed out during the debate in the committee. The minimum amount of investments supported by this draft law, as determined by large, medium-sized, small and micro-enterprises, should be redefined according to geographical and demographic data, in order to achieve growth and in remote areas where a low-cost investment in relatively low expenditure would help to develop the small local economy and create new jobs. The Minister has stressed that this law places particular emphasis on the field of agri-foodstuffs and the development of technology. However, Article 7 excludes key sectors for the development of the local economy and by extension of the national economy, which would create thousands of jobs. Such industries are the steel, synthetic fibres, shipbuilding, and industries which have been employing thousands of our compatriots. The Government must understand that the jobs are not created by magic but by supporting the existing entrepreneurship by strengthening it and then extending it. How can we want growth, but do not rely on industries where Greece has a tradition of years? How can it not be possible to include areas of scientific research, development and education, which would lay the foundations for effective and sustainable development that our country so much needs? Article 10(3) states that undertakings that did not have any profits in any use during the last seven years prior to the application for registration shall not be entitled to receive the aid in cases (b) and (c) of paragraph 1. This means, among other things, that undertakings from border regions or islands affected by the memorandum policies or the illegal immigration issue cannot be strengthened. We reiterate once again our position that this provision for small and medium-sized enterprises should be abolished. Article 12 refers to aid to outward-looking small and medium-sized enterprises. I repeat the question we have raised in committee as well: Amid the economic crisis, how many enterprises which are based or have an Annex in Greece have increased their exports or have their jobs respectively? Extroversion has been affected by the lack of liquidity, capital controls, the lack of confidence among commercial partners in Greece and, of course, the bureaucratic obstacles. What is the solution offered by this development law for these problems? None at all. In Article 18, which concerns the completion of investment projects and the start of productive operation of the investment, in relation to paragraph 4 and the case where the investment is classified as uncompleted, we have so far many examples of unfinished projects - and I am referring, of course, to public works - by private contractors who, as well as harming the economy of the country and having harmful effects on the security of citizens, and yet they are calling for state compensation. The fact that no mention is made of the recovery of grants, which have been received over the years, demonstrates whose interests the government serves and who exactly is going to provide financial support. In terms of large-scale investments, it is clear in this part of the development bill that large enterprises are the focus of the desired and anticipated development on the Left. They shall enjoy more favourable treatment, as is apparent from Articles 65 to 69. At a time when our homeland is being plagued by the economic recession and the nationalist memorials, the government, following foreign orders, creates all the necessary conditions for the absolute domination of speculators and loan sharks. Here too, there are a number of issues that we should pay particular attention to. You say that you support Greek small and medium-sized enterprises, but ultimately your priority is to make Greece an attractive place for multinationals. There is no concern about the fact that the Greek companies carry their seat outside Greece. The establishment of the Development Council with the simultaneous abolition of the National Competitiveness and Development Council and the simultaneous activation of the Centre for Planning and Economic Research - Articles 70 to 75 - does not give rise to any impression. In this way, the Government ensures a positive assessment of the consequences of the implementation of development policies. You continue the practice of the party army in every appearance of the political and economic life of the country, as did your predecessors. The development law could, of course, be a useful investment framework for our country. Unfortunately, however, we see past practices, distortions and established pathogens being adopted. It has nothing to offer, but hope, which of course will never happen. With courageous celebrations are celebrated by those responsible for our people's misfortune over the new development law, claiming with enthusiasm that it will create the conditions that will contribute to the development of the economy. The growth of the economy, however, has been invoked all the time and many times in the past. The "false" of development, which comes from the period of PASOK rule with Jeffrey Papandreou, followed by the "huunta" Venizelos - Samaras and today the Memorandum of Understanding Tsipras - Kammenos maintains it. A common element of the declarations of all this is the following: the creation of the expectation of development has politically covered the biggest crimes at the expense of the people and of the countryside. What kind of development, therefore, is it that the rulings are looking forward to carrying and how will this be achieved? The bill is clear: Development is in the hands of the creditors who take decisions, and it is even the creditors who judge in which sectors of our economy will be given weight and any state aid. It is not accidental and symptomatic that they have excluded the development, economic sectors such as shipbuilding, the steel and synthetic fibres industries, the transport sector. No surprise about the total refusal of the government but - to be fair - and all the so-called democratic arch to benefit from the maximum aid from the State to exploit the natural resources of our country, which will finally give impetus to the Greek economy. I do not think there is any doubt about the complete indifference to primary production, which makes it clear that it has been placed in the execution of the loan-to-court clique. In conclusion, the lenders sell us air cut off, the air we pay extremely expensive now and the future generations of the Greeks will pay even more expensively. Therefore, the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict is only the natural continuity of Samara's'success story', a'success story' which leads with mathematical accuracy to the disappearance of every Greek production activity for the benefit of the international speculative capital, which will inevitably prevail. For these reasons, the People's Association - Golden Dawn considers the anti-development bill and of course vote against it. At this point, I would like to inform the Minister responsible that we have tabled an amendment - an addition to the following question: After continuous cases of the theft of busts, statues and other works of art from public spaces, the mayor of Athens made the incomprehensible decision to withdraw the busts from the Athens Centre. The same is true in other parts of Greece where similar incidents occur. There is clearly an empty law on this issue and the People's Association - Golden Dawn tables an amendment aimed at persecuting both the persecutors of thefts and the owners of the foundries buying the thieves, melting them and reselling them. And, of course, administrative sanctions should also be imposed. We call on the Minister to accept it, because we believe it is imperative that our cultural heritage should emerge and not be locked in warehouses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, I would like to inform you that the Minister of Finance submitted a draft law on 14-6-2016: "Definition of Council Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom on the system of the European Union's own resources". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to make a comment before I refer to the development law on the statement by Mrs Gerovalis that a demonstration of 'Resign' is a hostile request to the country. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr. Friends' views a few days ago were the government's views, which were delayed by Mrs. Gerovali's statement. Mrs Gerovas and the government, they identify the future of SYRIZA - ANEL with the future of the country. You've been on dangerous paths that concern democracy in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, after two days in committee, the government has shown that it is not development but how it will serve the government's communication needs. And I'm explaining. Based on the General Accounting Office of the State, ladies and gentlemen, 480 million will be provided in the coming years by 2022 for development law and 27 million for tax exemptions, while you state that it will be EUR 3.6 billion. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, however, that is not all. When we asked you the question and the issue of our amendment to ensure 15% of the Supreme Court, that is from 50% to 50%, which will go to development, as you yourself said, you accused us of being out of place and time. Ladies and gentlemen, is Mr Tsakalotos out of place and time, who told the committee Mr Koutsoukos and said he was lying when he said that 50% of them would be used for investment and purposes when Mr Tsipras said that 50% of the revenues would go to investment as well in development? And today, when we're asking you to put 15% into the law, so that there can be resources for the next period of development law, are we out of place and time? [[At this point the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] No, ladies and gentlemen, these are the government's well-known fairy tales of maintaining power without precedent. If, Minister, 50% goes to development, you too, ladies and gentlemen, accept our amendment that ensures the specific resources for development law. But that is not all, ladies and gentlemen. You are talking about employment and, as you share the billions, you share the jobs. Mr Stathakis spoke a few days ago of 15,000 jobs that the new development law is expected to create until 2022. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And today the Secretary-General is talking about 250,000 jobs in Red. This geometric increase you give to both resources or employment is typical of how you think about growth. And because these statements were made 'In Red', I am sure that the conflict has not distorted your so-called ones. But that's not good enough. One of the very big issues that it is trying - according to the government - to solve the current development law is for investment projects by the development laws of the recent past. Mr Gorzos told you here as a representative of the Greek Banks, that this matter will create and blow all business plan of businesses into the air and that they will be paid back in a period of seven years. And you, Minister - we have told you, we have proposed that you change it - you have continued to support and say that it supports small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm telling you that this law only supports two, three groups that have their feet in many business actions. All small and medium-sized enterprises will not be able to implement their plans. And that is not enough, Minister, and here you come into a great contradiction with the party you are working with, the ANELs. In the committee with great respect, we talked to you about the return of the guarantees and you told us that not only can it not be done at the same time, but that what we say has nothing to do with reality. And it didn't last a day, Mr. Lazarides of the ANELs. And here's a thing. If they do not accept your amendment, will you vote on the guarantee article? What do you think? We talked about it, Mr. Lazarides. You say that, for reasons of force majeure - what we have said in committee - guarantees should be repaid. [[At this point the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, tabled the above amendment for the Minutes, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I ask, Minister: weren't you the same Minister, who one year before you legislated to return the money of the difference for laws of the old developmenter, which were in the photovoltaics? Why are you choosing this method today and last time, a year ago, did you choose another method? What are the business groups to which you were enabling their money to come at the same time a year ago, and now you're telling them interestlessly?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u56	You answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u57	Answer the ANLEs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u58	Do not engage in dialogue with the Minister. The Minister will talk later and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u59	You can answer the ANLLs who are blaming you and who are telling you to bring them in person with an amendment. Tell the Annells.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u60	You answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u61	I, Mr Minister, as you will remember, because you always falsify what you say and I would ask you to see in the committee's writings - I told you 'no perpetually'. I told you not to loan the state. But today, because the cooperation government and the ANELs are bringing you this amendment, you must answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u62	The law's answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u63	Let us now move on to the next issue on financial instruments. I am pleased that Mr Haritsis is here, who made a statement a few days ago, after our question here, and said that the financial instruments will be seen from September.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u64	We've given an extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u65	Easy, Mr. Haritsi, you have written a speaker tomorrow. You'll answer. You keep notes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u66	Mr Haritsis, as you know, at the annual meeting held by the European Commission, you were asked to update Ex Ante because you were not ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u67	Don't ask questions all the time, because they're not the ministers who answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u68	Other financial instruments, colleagues of SYRIZA and ANEL, do not exist at the moment. From September we'll see. However, let us go to what you say about small and medium-sized enterprises, and I would like to ask whether with Mr Juliarakis, as he writes in 'Kathimerini', you have a single record, Minister. This law - you know - says the SYRIZA Government - ANEL that it is for small and medium-sized enterprises. When we raised the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises, which keep books of category B, which are the most populous group, over 80%, because at first they told us that they were not excluded - GATT says that they are discouraged, we say they are excluded - you told us that you would bring regulation for special categories. We're waiting for her, Minister. You are putting an issue, which is the government's single account. While you say that it is only for small and medium-sized enterprises, Mr Juliarakis says in Sunday's 'Kathimerini' that, to recover the economy, there is a need for large investment, public and private. I'm filing the document. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Does this development law exclude large investment, ladies and gentlemen? He's blocking them. SYRIZA is a great supermarket of ideas. It could be with everything. He's with the little ones, he says in words. He's with the grown-ups, Mr. Stathakis will say. It's with the memorial and the memorial. It is also with protests and banning demonstrations. They're on the left, they're on the right. It has a prerequisite, however, gentlemen: you can do all of this to remain in power. That's what you're interested in, that's your only goal. And this objective, which you take out every day - you will allow me, Minister - you have been ruined again by the Governor of the Bank of Greece, your loved one lately, Mr Stournaras. What did Mr Stournaras tell you today? That he needs a new deal! That's what he said. And you've booked a new deal not to get time for the country, but mostly to get time for power. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted very persistently and patiently as Democratic Incorporation proposals on all issues, on matters relating to resources, the employment clause, on duty-free reserves, on the non-exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises, on certified audit firms, on the regulatory framework for land use, in which, Minister, you responded to us? That in one month you will have the presidential decree. I want you to keep it, ladies and gentlemen, what the Minister said in committee. In one month, the Minister said, he will have the presidential decree on land uses. Of course, Minister, if we trust you as we have trusted you when development law is to be submitted, you made twenty-five times a notification of the development law and you were 16 months behind it. But know that you will not have a regulatory framework in six months, you will not have a presidential decree framework. Ladies and gentlemen, we as a Democratic Independence think that the government-issued development law will soon have to change, so that the companies of the old investment law can survive, but that incentives and benefits can be given to new businesses. So the next time the Democratic Reconciliation will take initiatives to reach a consensus on the new development plan of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u69	And I, Mr. Colleague, for saving time. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Vardalis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u70	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u71	Here, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u72	I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u73	There wasn't any personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u74	There was.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u75	He just asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u76	He mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u77	You'll be placed. You talk after two speakers. Mr. Lazarides, he didn't insult. He asked a question to which you will answer your speech. He didn't make any insults. He asked you if the amendment was not accepted, what are you going to do? If you hadn't written a speaker, I'd give you the floor, but there's no reason. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not support the fact that the development law we are debating today does not have any differences with the previous ones. We're not making that kind of criticism. It's obvious he's got differences. Why, though, does he? In our opinion, because the needs of capital are not the same five or ten years ago. There are no differences in the strategy. They all move in the same direction, in the same step. But let's look at it a little more specifically. The Minister in the Committee's discussion, as well as the SYRIZA rapporteur today, argued that the development law primarily aims to develop production, focuses on innovation with a peak on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and is structured around extroversion, youth and new entrepreneurship, in fact, paying attention to tax evasions rather than subsidies. Yes, sir. I shall now read to you a few passages from another speech, it is neither the Minister of State or the SYRIZA rapporteur. I read: 'Without development that promotes values and puts man at the centre, we will not succeed. In this difficult period we respond with extroversion, with aggression, with competitiveness and ultimately added value. The new law will support healthy entrepreneurship and social mobility in all regions. But innovation and high-performance investment will also be encouraged.’ Below it continues: "There is a plaque in every investment project. No one can share money without any control. They are financed..." - note this, Minister, "... tax exemptions, not subsidies, as a basic aid instrument and in relation to three to one". Who said that? Mr Chrysochoidis from Stepma this and the committee, when the previous development law, that is, five years ago, passed. The easy thing would be to accuse you of copying each other. But, in our view, this explanation does not give rise to reality. And the reality is, you're saying the same thing, because you're serving the same goals. You are even using the same arguments as those you call an old political system. To be more specific, if you take a look at the decisions of the European Union in March 2000 at the European Council meeting in Lisbon, as well as what the European Union 2020 strategy provides for, then it will be understood by everyone at what pace you are all dancing. Within these texts you will find out about the knowledge economy, i.e. using new technologies, research, innovation and others, the so-called 'creating an appropriate business climate', increasing employment, increasing spending on research and development to 3% of GDP, investment in telecommunications, information technology and so on. What they are planning, in other words, to withstand competition, increase the degree of exploitation of the working class, speed up the concentration and concentration of capital, legitimise class cooperation, serve us as a left-wing policy. This is your downhill, and then you accuse us of a wooden language, when all of you from 2000 say the same thing as those who really beat the tullies. But the fair growth that will bring profits and redistribution beyond being a joke, you just use it as a cherry to reach the people's consent. Secondly, the government is, in our view, clear. What's he up to? Development equals investment. Obviously, investments will be made by the large business groups and such investments by the government. In order to come here, however, facilities should be provided. Here we are, then, tax reliefs and subsidies. Over the last fifteen years, the State aid for private groups' investment has reached 12 billion euros and the total investment amount has reached 32 billion euros. And as these obviously do not reach, it is also necessary to adapt the state mechanism to the modern requirements of capital, what you say, that is, all of you'modernisation of the state','strengthening bureaucracy', 'creating investment climate', etc. Such a state needs capital today. He should, in other words, go in front of cleanse, obviously carry the burdens on the workers and then come the capital to invest. You call this'realism' in today's era. In practice, however, what you do, is to help the system overcome its crisis, to dismantle its profits, and even in difficult times. In this direction you are also pressed by other opposition parties, but also by employers. What are they looking for? They ask for faster rates, better investment climate, greater capital tax exemptions, even the interest rate of their borrowings, move forward more quickly to privatizations, combat bureaucracy. That's what they tell you. Ladies and gentlemen, the investment law responds, in our view, to the modern needs of capital. It provides for a strong framework for aid, with, of course, emphasis on tax exemptions and support for large enterprises in the new context of economic activity. A total of eight different categories of aid are envisaged. Invoke the opinion of the institutions. You say that you heard them, took into account their proposals and even improved the original draft law. Indeed, that is the case, but who is talking about? For BSE, SETE, EVE and all employers. Indeed, you are listening to all of these. That's why they all applaud you. That's why capitalists need you now and not when growth is great. For that time, they count on others, in their traditional "children" such as the New Democracy and the PASOK. When these "do not pull" and make it difficult to further the unpopular restructurings, SYRIZA, as the social democracy has always done, came with philosophical endeavor to do the dirty work of capital, to load more barbaric, permanent measures on the back of the people to make conditions for the recovery of capitalists' profits. That is why you are useful in the chapter, which is why BSE and other capital forces applaud you. Everything else is just for popular consumption. Thirdly, you are saying that development law will be crucial for investment, for unemployment to be combated and for the unemployed to benefit. You are causing the hundreds of thousands of unemployed, when you are cutting down the minimum funds for protecting the unemployed, when you reject the proposals of the Communist Party of Greece for their effective protection. The problem of unemployment cannot be solved in capitalism, much more in crisis conditions where productive forces are destroyed, but also in growth, thousands of unemployed will see light, as this will be anemic and any investments made will be made in sectors with low labour demand. The government says there will be investment and unemployment reduction. But how will investment be made? Things are clear here. With further crackdown on the price of the labour force and with the assistance of the capitalists from the state in money and infrastructure. The government's thinking is this: in order to stimulate employment, not to find permanent and stable jobs, the unemployed, the government is preparing a large number of subsidies and tax exemptions, i.e. 'hot' state money to the millions of people for the next twelve to fifteen years. In order to find these billions of euros for the financing of the job free, the government is already applying extensive spending cuts, i.e. depriving the people of funds for basic social services and directing them to employers to hire workers with cracked labour rights and government-sponsored wages, i.e. workers and other people's strands not only become victims of cuts in government spending, but also pays from their pockets, since with their own money the programme of subsidised work will be financed. What will the people get from such growth? Hunger wages, busted employment relationships, new bleeding of income, levelling of all social services. This is the development you promise them, a hell that the people must prevent. After all, the privatisation of the Greek is a clear example of the development path followed by the current government. Only if anyone sees who celebrated after the signing of the contract, they'll know what it's all about. Latsis celebrates and the other opposition parties were relieved, which, of course, agree with this development path. They were watching this delay, they let it desolate, and then whatever you do, it seems to be positive. To "gold the pill" we get eaten green and jobs. They hide that the green spaces that will be created will belong to the contractor and that it will determine with what financial price the people will be able to visit them. They advertised and advertised tradition as tackling unemployment. They hide that for these positions businessmen will be financed, while these jobs will be on hunger wages, without collective agreements, with little rights. They will build a new Monaco for a few, sceptical for the popular layers, while all the space of the "Greek" could remain public property and the public can take over the construction, management, operating and maintenance costs of the metropolitan park, open to the people, with all the required infrastructure to enjoy it by working people from all over Attica. You say you will make use of innovation to increase productivity. However, in the system that we live in, in capitalism, productivity growth is not used to improve the position of workers, but to increase the profits of capital. Take as an example the United States of America which is an international standard in the field of innovation. Between 1973 and 2013, productivity in the USA increased by 73%, while minimum wage by only 9%. In order to increase capitalist profitability, moreover, the gap between productivity and wage levels should be increased. With the support of extroversion, you confess that cruel austerity will be left on the domestic market for many years, which is a relatively small one anyway. The increase in sales should therefore be found abroad. There are mainly tax exemptions, but also direct subsidies of up to EUR 20 million in large enterprises. The subsidy can be granted even if the private investor does not place its own funds. For large strategic investments, a stable tax framework is provided for in the current levels for the next 12 years, which can easily lead to a new reduction in the total capital tax burden over the next period. It promotes synergy between a very small part of small businesses, leaving out, of course, a large majority of them. The aim is to increase the capital of enterprises that will remain alive in the coming years. Finally, it is worth pointing out that on the basis of the figures presented by the government itself for the winding, development funding package, EUR 3.6 billion, the forecast for rapid and significant recovery is uncertain and uncertain. A simple look at the slowing down of the international economy, the situation of the euro area, the increase in imbalance in the development of the European Union's rings and in the course of domestic industrial production, is enough to doubt it. Ladies and gentlemen, the good news, the good news will be brought by the workers and by the people. They will open a new page, a new era, with their wrestling and their struggle. Best defense is counterattack. Recent struggles against insurance and tax raid, against the general anti-grass attack on capital and government, have shown that workers should be undone by any illusory and false hopes they have that their interests can coexist with the interests of capital, that they can depend on their future and their lives from when they can get the profits of capitalists. It is time for workers to get out of the gears of the system, the employer, the parties, their mechanisms, to get out of the fold of the European Union. In this direction, the Communist Party of Greece will give all its forces in, but mainly outside the House, so that the class movement, which is rallyed in PAME, will become the force of the labor and popular movement. The working class and its allies must realise that there is no other way of salvation but its preparation and organization to claim its own power as a prerequisite to satisfy its modern needs and to get rid of the causes that condemn it in today's misery. In view of the above, we are voting against the draft law in principle and on the articles. Finally, we have tabled three amendments. I am going to stand on account of time, in a few words, in the case of self-employed scientists, professionals, automobile workers. We all know their difficult economic position. What we are asking for with the amendment is that the reductions in the tax on wages and pensions should also apply to the incomes of business. We believe that, apart from giving a small breath to the self-employed, it is also a measure of elementary fiscal equilibrium. We ask, Minister, that you accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u79	Before we continue, I would like to ask the parliamentary representatives to make known to the Bureau when they will speak, so that we know whether we will go in line with the order of parliamentary order or because you have the right to speak and tomorrow, you will prefer it, so that we can set up a list of colleagues. For reasons of parliamentary order, the other three special speakers will be given the floor to the Minister. For example, Mr. Loverdos said he would speak tomorrow, while Mr. Dendias will speak after the Minister. So I'd like you to tell me if you're gonna talk tonight, whether we're going in turn or somebody wants to talk tomorrow. We should only know that in order to put other Members of this House in place. I invite Mr. Georgios Amyras, the special speaker from the Potami. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, a few days ago - you would have followed it - the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras, was in Bulgaria with Greek bankers to attend the events of a subsidiary bank. So I was impressed by a tweet that one of the bankers who accompanied Mr Stournara uploaded on twitter and which I think within a hundred forty characters described very well why Greek businesses migrate to Bulgaria. And, unfortunately, there does not seem to be much hope of this development law. So I read to you what the banker wrote on twitter: "Just and firmly. VAT 20%, flat business tax 10%, no capital gain tax, small property tax, nineteen years fixed rate." These, ladies and gentlemen, apply to Bulgaria. And while some years ago Greek energies conquered the Bulgarian market by setting up branches, subsidiaries, with extroversion and innovation, now small and medium-sized enterprises are migrating massively towards Bulgaria not to grow, but to save the lock back to their country, here, in Greece. If the banker himself wanted to send a tweet on the situation in Greece, he could write: "Dirty uncertainty. VAT 24%, business tax 29%, 100% tax advance for small and medium-sized enterprises, HISPIA and other tax surprises." So we realise that we in Greece managed for the days of SYRIZA Government - ANEL the impossible, almost impossible. In other words, instead of having Bulgaria, Europe's wages and the social state of Scandinavia, how this government did it and did Bulgaria's wages, Scandinavia's taxes and a social state and a public service, particularly in the areas that the citizen needs, health and education, than the worst in Europe. This is not just a common secret, but it is so obvious and bronze that one cannot hide it. So, after twenty-six months after the end of the previous development law, we now come to this draft law. Yes, sir. Twenty-six months, that is, the country is going without a development plan. It's a ship, as I told you in the committees, which seems to be in the middle of a boat not only without a cruising plan, but also without its auxiliary machine. So let's see, in these months when we didn't have development law, what happened: The padlocks have for the first time exceeded the new registrations in the chambers. In the five-month period of January - May 2016 more than fifteen thousand businesses put a lock on it, and only opened 12 thousand, i.e. three thousand businesses disappeared forever from this country's economic and social map. The economic climate has deteriorated, according to IOBE figures. The pessimism of industry is greater than ever and the recession has turned for good to simulate itself in the Greek economy. For a third consecutive quarter the Greek economy has shrinked - these are the latest data from the Statistical Office for the first quarter of 2016 - while on an annual basis the recession exceeds 1.4%. Greece is now the only country, ladies and gentlemen, of the European Union that does not record growth. I told you about the mass migration of Greek businesses in Bulgaria. In 2015, sixty thousand Greek businessmen transferred their seat to Bulgaria. The wave of immigration was glossed by the economic uncertainty caused by capital controls and hard control otherwise, but fully failed, negotiation of 2015 with Giannis Varoufakis head. Moreover, the unemployment of all people - and not only in this Chamber, but mainly outside this Chamber - has stabilised to 24% over the last three months. The Commission has revised its forecast for the unemployment of Greeks and Greeks this year. Is it all about the lack of development law? No, of course not. It is because the country, as I told you, pays the negotiation in the first half of 2015, but it also pays the delays after September 2015. He also pays for the fact that, although Mr Stathakis had often announced this development law - and we looked black to see it, Minister - but, of course, he also pays for the unspeakable structural and balanced development of private-sector enterprises at the expense of or compared to those private-sector enterprises, which are state-owned and have learned for decades to feed from the sacred cow called "Greek public". But who can invest in our country and why? As I have mentioned to you in the committee, economists internationally, but also domestically, agree that for the country to enter the virtuous circle of the economy it will take the next six years 100 billion euros. Let us assume, then, that the development law, which we have to vote on, succeeds to the fullest extent. We must, however, overlook some data. We must overlook that there is no serious financial support from the credit system of companies. We must, of course, lose sight of the fact that the State still owes aid for outstanding investment projects in previous laws amounting to EUR 2.5 billion. It should be overlooked that even today the ministers are crying out and reaping when they are going to sign a privatization, a privatization, as you would like to say, so that they can drop you lighter, or whether they are going to approve a large investment project. I would like to say in passing, of course, that I would also like a little comment from you, Mr Stathakis, in relation to TEAD and his decision to start recruiting a technical consultant for the next twenty-three regional airports in order to privatise themselves. What do you think? Is it part of the development of good or not, or is Mr. Spirtz stuck with stress and odor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u81	Courage! We'll all be back!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u82	We'll all be back!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u83	We'll all be back. That is for sure and for sure! Ladies and gentlemen, we should also not overlook the fact that the state is the great battering, its dues to private suppliers exceed EUR 7.7 billion. Amen and when, at last, we say that the first disbursement will be made after the end of the assessment, and some individuals are paid, although many say that this money will actually be against new supplies, which will make the Greek public in hospitals mainly from the private economy. Finally, can I remind you that Greece is the last to use the Juncker package? Furthermore, of course, the statements made by the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Katinen, who said that the countries of the south - among them Greece and Italy - have not yet disbursed funds from the business development package. That's a stagnation, too. The services of your Ministry, but also of other co-operating ministries, do not even know that small and medium-sized enterprises can be contacted directly to the European Investment Bank. So, in this context, the negative context that I described to you, can an investor come to Greece? Yes, sir! Assuming that this law will mobilise 11 billion investments by 2023, say yes, will it? Let's take it as good-for-nothing. The remaining 89 billion euros needed by the real economy to get back into a balance cycle and the virtuous cycle we were talking about will they be found? Can we get investors to come to Greece? I'm afraid not. I fear that no, because the uncertainty about the economy is a great, powerful, huge psychological barrier that no matter how well-intentioned it is, it is the figures that will either lead him to loot, seeing this big dam or having suicidal moods, trying to invest in Greece with the following specific features: that the credit system, despite its recapitalisation, does not fulfil its role, does not provide necessary liquidity on the market, is unable to support financially even healthy businesses. Taxation has become confiscation. Increases in both direct and indirect taxation make business a prohibition, a tax evasion premium, lead free professionals to emigrate to another land and other places. Also, the stamina of households and businessmen have reached their limits. More than 70% of the citizens state that they are unable to meet their tax obligations, despite the fact that they would like to. How, then, can we expect investment when taxes increase and income decline? Unfortunately, the Greek economy is not a spring - as the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, said - ready to go. Unfortunately, it is the spring near the critical point of the break. But development law also has weaknesses. This project has some basic structural weaknesses. Firstly, the strategic objectives have not been adopted, they have not been established in advance. I asked you and the committees this: How many new jobs will be created through the support of the entrepreneurs' investment plans and through these 500 million euros, which the Greek state will give to these business plans by 2022? We don't even know how many new jobs will be created. In what areas will investment be promoted to have multiplier economic, local or wider economic benefits? A second part and a second point of criticism is that the investment effort is not clearly disconnected with bureaucracy. The bureaucracy lives and reigns. I think that there is an unsatisfactory but unsatisfactory attempt to regulate that from EUR 20 million investment and above the answers, permits, allocations will be made immediately. I also asked the committees about what will happen with those investments under EUR 20 million or what will happen with those investments that will not be incorporated into the development law regardless of their amount. What about them? They're going to Cavalas? Unfortunately, they will go in because we do not have a state to support the same investment projects that it is supposed to grant. Thirdly and finally, as far as weaknesses are concerned and as a general criticism of your law, it is that the developmenter is not financially well supported. I remind you that for this year, in 2016, we have zero euros from the Development Plans Act and just 27 million plus another 3 - if I'm not mistaken - from the Participating Fund for 2017. I would remind you that the Tsipras - Kammenos memorandum ends in 2018. Shouldn't you, at least, in the first two years of your memorial be able to throw money - under the conditions that, of course, we will agree here - by means of the development law on the market, on the business market? If these conditions are not met, which I have presented and developed to you, I believe this development law will not succeed. But there is still one more thing, since the debate is unified and we should also talk about the articles now. In the bill, incorporating the European Union directive that comes into the committees on Thursday, Minister, with Article 14 you are attempting to restructure - I will say - an enhanced bureaucratic mechanism for the EMS funds. New special secretaries, new secretary-general, who knows what's waiting for us. I mean, ashes in the eyes with the development law, obviously, and from the back door, let's again rise the public with more state, benefits, heads, etc. This approach and view of the development tools of this country on its own is capable of us in the Potami to tell you 'no', to say that we will vote against the draft law only from this - let me be allowed to express - side by side you are following. Now, in relation to some articles that matter. In Article 42(1), we have the beneficiaries of the ‘general entrepreneurship’ scheme. We therefore call for all small and medium-sized enterprises and not only new independent small and medium-sized enterprises within this framework to be part of the entrepreneurship scheme. We are also telling you about Article 20(1), that the tax exemption consists of exempting all types of taxes and not just income tax, and even more than 20% per year, ideally, 50% per year. Why am I telling you this? Because saying that I am shaping you and keeping you stable for the next few years does not say much about income tax alone. He's got carpets, he's got indirect taxes, he's got triples. It's not just the income tax. There are all the other "taxbombs" that a person who tries to attempt with a clear mind and open intent towards Greek society. With regard to Article 11(3), we are asking to increase the total amount of aid per investment project submitted from EUR 5 million to EUR 7.5 million. Also, the scientific service made some very serious points, in particular about Article 12 and the case-law g, where it states that there is vagueness in the wording of the phrase - take note, ladies and gentlemen, of - 'enterprises which achieve increased added value in relation to the average of their industry'. Here, then, there is a risk of interpretative doubts in the application of the provision. And because we have no confidence in the political leadership, regardless of the person or the administrative departments of the ministries, we want you to make it clear from now. The scientific service also stresses that Articles 14 and 15 are inconsistent with the regulations of Law 3979/2011 on e-government. Therefore, in order to comply with the principles of good administration and the right to effective judicial protection, you should amend them. From this law, as I have told you - and my language has haired at every meeting to say it - there are two major tools missing from previous development laws. One is subsidising the loan rate, and the second is depreciation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must pay particular attention - and the Minister in particular - to the cooperation of parent and imminent companies in order to avoid triangular transactions. It is something that the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship has told you. In other words, the upcoming companies will expand the purpose and scope of their activities, in cooperation, of course, with the mothers, because there is a problematic legislative framework. It's Law 3427/2005. Look at that. There must be, in our proposal, a committee of experts - and this is also proposed by the traders - to ensure that there are no triangular trade phenomena. The only thing that the Greek economy does not need now is to lose money, of these few that will be provided through the development law, to gamblers, large companies, which, in the well-known way of triangular transactions, can eliminate any benefit of the aid that will come to them. Ladies and gentlemen, as I had told you in my first speech a few days ago, this development law looks like an airplane, which operates a low-flight, so fast as it doesn't fall. It's so low that the flight doesn't even catch the radar. And just because for the next two years - I say again - they will be put on the market by the EUR 30 million development law, you realize that things cannot be presented with the fanatics - and, if you like, the majestics of fair growth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Fair growth will come when we finally have the Greek State to work properly, when we close the holes in the smuggling of fuels, tobacco, when we decide above all, all three hundred and later as large groups of citizens that we deserve to live in a normal European country and not in a country that moves between the old Balkans - because you saw that they are mocking the Balkans - and an invisible situation between North Korea and the Middle East. The country deserves to be European. We want it to be a normal country that keeps people here. And I fear that development law - as long as it could contribute to it - fails. We are voting in favour of the principle. We'll tell you about the articles tomorrow. Some articles we think are positive. We will be voting in favour. As far as the whole is concerned, I will see you on Thursday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, the two parties of counterpopulation that brought the country here went up to the Step without a trace of self-criticism and swinging our fingers said things. Amongst other things, they told us that in 2014 and towards the end some improvements had begun to appear. We did hear that there was an increase in exports. I'll read to you here some of ELSTAT's data. The 2014 trade balance deficit increased by 6.4%. In the period January - December 2014, the import value, arrivals was 47,706,700,000 euros, compared with 46,862,000 euros in 2013. Exports did not reach 27,177,900,000 euros in 2014 compared to 27,568,000 euros in 2013. Imports increased in 2014 and exports decreased. No relation to what they call for improvement! From the debate on your committees, I promised that I would bring some information about the disaster that has been done - all over Greece - in Macedonia. Macedonia was the engine for exports to the agricultural sector, for processing, etc. I shall therefore present to you some information which I shall be tabling. We have data from the Thessaloniki Chamber of Crafts. From 1-1-2011 to 31-5-2016 we have three thousand nine entries and eight thousand five hundred sixty-five writes. The negative balance is five thousand five hundred sixty-six. I've got the rest of the years. I'll testify. I won't read it to you so I won't eat time. I'll give it to you together. I have here data from the Thessaloniki Chamber of Professionals. From 1-11998 to 31-12-1999 we had eight thousand four hundred eighty-three records and three thousand eight hundred forty-six write-offs. The positive balance is four thousand six hundred thirty seven. From 1-12000 to 31-12-009 we have fifty six thousand nine hundred ninety-nine entries and forty thousand eight hundred fifty-five writes. And here is a positive balance, namely sixteen thousand, twenty-four. And now be careful here. From 1-1-2010 to 31-12-2014 the entries are eighteen thousand eight hundred forty-seven and twenty-five thousand three hundred and fifty-four. The negative balance is at six thousand five hundred seven. This is the success story. I'm filing these figures. [[At this point, the Member, George Lazarides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to say to you this: as far as the commercial sector is concerned, for 2014, I found some data that they say - and I read you exactly as they are - "Disclosures are the findings of the annual exhibition of Greek trade at an event by the President of the National Trade and Entrepreneurship Association (ESC) Vasilis Crokidis. For the first time since 2012, the number of enterprises at risk of stopping operation has a slight decline, despite the application of the capital restrictions and the new tax measures to be taken. It is noted that the corresponding percentage of enclosed stores was 17.6% in 2014, 17% in 2013 and 14.1% in 2012." This was the success story in 2014, which suggests that the economy was going to improve. On the contrary, all indicators demonstrate the completely opposite. It was also said that, in fact, it was the first assessment and the government took this assessment, contrary to the previous Samara-Venizelos conflict, who were unable to get the latest assessment in August 2014 and ran away from the government. In the new law, the small and medium-sized enterprises are focusing on and emerged as the key lever of the productive reconstruction of the economy, while it is in favour of strengthening the production process and the primary sector, because this will only strengthen Greek trade. The new development law places particular emphasis on increasing the competitiveness of border regions. In addition, an important element of the law is the integration of aid to the spatial dimension by introducing aid criteria for specific regions, such as mountain areas with an altitude above eight hundred metres or island islands, islands with less than three thousand inhabitants, borders with a distance of twenty kilometres from the border and regions with a large negative population of over 30%. According to the 2016 figures, the areas defined as specific correspond to 40% of the country's municipalities and relate to 14.5% of the country's total population. It introduces procedures for assessing the effects of the law both during its implementation and retrospectively. It simplifies procedures and transparency with the aim of reducing bureaucracy and helping investors more rapidly and ensuring the public interest, while choosing to support in particular those economic sectors which can contribute to the above positive changes and in which the country has comparative advantages, such as information and communication technologies and the agri-food chain from the field to the hotel without, of course, leaving the traditionally strong branches of tourism and shipping. Favourable treatment in agri-food investment projects, which, instead of tax exemptions, will be subsidized by 70% and maximum 100% of the grants provided for in the regional aid map and reserves the new development law. At the same time, it lowers the minimum investment threshold for agricultural cooperatives and producer groups, while at EUR 100,000 the entrance step is formed for individual producers who will want to make use of the new law as natural persons, individual rural enterprises. The previous 2011 Development Law had impressive results. Of the thousands of two hundred and seventy - six works, only fifty were completed with an average waiting time of more than twenty months! Let us also point out this. The previous laws from 1998 to 2011 amounted to 32 billion in total, but only two branches, energy and hotels, assembled 76% of the budget. According to the changes announced by the Minister of Economy Giorgos Stathakis at the second reading of the development law in the relevant committees of the Parliament, a deadline is given until 31 March 2017 to about six thousand three hundred enterprises, which were part of the old development laws, in order to complete 50% of their investment and not to end. This is a three-month extension of the deadline, as the oldest one was on December 31, 2016. The new development law is expected to create immediately sixteen thousand jobs, i.e. those arising from the two previous development laws together. It is worth stressing that investment projects are required to ensure conditions for the accessibility of SMEs to the investment areas. The new law does not strengthen existing trends, but two branches that it considers to be extrovertible and internationally competitive, i.e. information and communication technology and the agri-food chain. The legislator's intention is that these two branches, which have high added value, acquire a distinct name, label, brand name. The new law sets a higher level of aid per investment project and primarily strengthens tax exemptions. It also introduces new flexible instruments, such as equity funds, funds and funds, with a view to improving liquidity problems and bypassing the constraints of banks. Five important elements of the draft law are: support for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular innovation-innovating ones, synergies and networking, integrated spatial and sectoral projects involving local production systems and chains, and support for the social cooperatives of producer groups, municipal enterprises and rural partnerships. In addition, increased incentives are offered for projects in specific geographical areas, mountainous areas with high population decline and border areas, for extroverters, innovative and dynamic in terms of employment growth, for enterprises with high added value, for businesses with low ecological footprints. The new law provides for eight different aid schemes. There is the basic scheme for general entrepreneurship and special status for rapid integration, with limited criteria for start-ups of small and medium-sized enterprises, innovative investments, the development of ringers, the establishment of public participation funds, regional and sectoral projects and major investment. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I'll speed up a little, to catch up with time. Computer equipment aid. It is suitable for enterprises wishing to integrate quickly, with minimum criteria, without competition and payment of aid directly by carrying out administrative checks, on-the-spot checks, etc. Minister, I would like an improvement here in the case of Article 8(3). The same applies - because it is a similar case - and in the case of Article 33. Where he says about machinery and equipment, I would ask you to do so for 15 years, because it is a little difficult to find machinery, since the seven-year-old machines are still considered new. In other words, you don't easily meet such new machines, because companies don't renew equipment so quickly. I shall now go to the amendments that I have tabled to make it possible to say a few words. I would like to start by saying that Mr Constantinople has commented on exactly what I am saying. I'm not saying, I'm just saying, when someone returns the deposit, they can return it at once. I say the following: In cases where the advance payment relates to an investment project which, during its implementation phase, the institution has faced conditions of force majeure, namely, circumstances and events, which are outside its wish, is not due to it, such as earthquake, fire, extreme weather phenomena, floods, sudden occurrence of a serious disease, the amount of the advance is paid without delay from the date of its grant, at the request of the operator of the investment project. I mean, another condition comes in, that he voluntarily returns it, that he himself wants to return it. No one goes and finds shortcomings and says to him "You have to return them". Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u86	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u87	No, because you didn't. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u88	You weren't on the board. That's what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u89	Now, I would like to refer to the other amendment, where I say this. I read exactly the proposed amendment, as I ask for it:'regardless of the above obligation, as added by Article 22 of Law No 3900/2010 in paragraph 3, Article 93 of the Code of Administrative Procedure is to be supplemented, in order to allow for the admissibility of any pleas in law, provided that the taxpayer himself or third parties designated to the competent DUI ensures that the amount due is equal to 50% of the amount due, in fact by registering a mortgage in favour of the public or of presentations, such as a guarantee letter. That is, we are trying here, Minister, to improve an inhuman law of 2010 when PASOK was ruling. At that time, they had voted that he had to disagree with what they imposed on him by the IRS to pay 50% of the amount they requested to him in order to go to trial his case. I think it's fair, that is, we settle an injustice. The third amendment proposes in Article 20(2)(d)(b) below: ‘ Exceptionally, it is possible to allocate the amount of the grant to banking institutions for the provision of a short-term low-interest loan equal to the grant allocated for the implementation of the investment project, which may have a maximum annual interest rate of more than 2% of Euribor. That's what I think is a fair request. It will make it easier for entrepreneurs, especially in this climate of economic difficulties that exist and lack of liquidity. We support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening to everyone. It is a common place that growth is desirable. However, what is not a common place among the parties is the way to achieve it. Trying to bring growth under law - that is to say, it does not show bad intentions. On the one hand, several bodies have seen this development law positively. But to believe that the economy and the market will bloom with mandates and special laws is something that reveals your ignorance or indifference to the real economy. You have full and black at midnight, as well as a well-founded suspicion of selfishness and opportunism. From Law 1262/1982 to Law 3908/2011 a total of five development laws were enacted in our country. In fact, the last two development laws of 2011 and 2004 contributed to the operation of six thousand hundred sixty-seven and thirty-seven thousand sixty-sixty-sixty-sixth jobs respectively. Each of these positions cost Greek citizens 322,000 euros in the first case and 230,000 euros in the second. Indeed, according to studies by Professor Petrakos and Grand Thornton, the average life expectancy of these posts has not exceeded three years. You understand that we are talking about expensive jobs and I am tabling in the Minutes a relevant source for what I have said. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Regarding this bill and the time for submission, it was put to the consultation in May 2006 - with enormous delay - having the following consequences: firstly, a poor economic situation, in view of the recent resolutions of extremely substantial material measures that create an anti-development climate on the market and, secondly, a time-frame from the previous development law - which I recall was in 2011 - and from the new General Exemptive Regulation, creating transitional problems. The draft law, firstly, shows a low percentage of grants, secondly, aid to indirect grants, such as tax exemptions or a fixed tax scheme but not in liquidity, and thirdly, restricting aid, other than specific categories, to new undertakings with the exclusion of existing undertakings. As a consequence, existing companies, which could use indirect aid, are, in the first place, excluded, while new companies, which primarily require capital aid, have only access to indirect aid, thus doubting the effectiveness of the new law since its birth. In particular: Firstly, the new development law makes a neuralgative factor in the financing of enterprises, primarily the media, intervention by financial intermediaries, the so-called funds of funds - and I am referring to Article 59 - but which are only generally identified in the law and whose precise definition, establishment and operation requires additional time-consuming actions by the state. Secondly, it results in bureaucracy and delays. The special aid schemes may be put into effect only after the relevant notice and fixing of a similar budget. It is estimated that a number of ministerial decisions are required for the functioning of the law. Thirdly, the recognition of a fixed tax rate of 29% over the next decade, subject to investment in high amounts - around EUR 20 million is mentioned - is not a real business incentive. The course of the earlier laws and the financial gaps that they have created, in conjunction with the delay in submitting the bill, the unfavourable circumstance, the degree of deinvestment in the country and the lack of liquidity, create the most negative conditions for the efficiency of a law, which rather serves more than any other government itself, which ultimately aims to strengthen the patronage and its image with a name-by-name development law, which the former government, the New Democracy, has not been able to bring. So you believe that the solution to Greece's development is a matter of special, exceptional development legislation. So I'm making it to you to understand it and the simplest man who's listening to us right now. It's like you think you'll refresh the desert by distributing ice cubes to selected deserters, commanding them not to melt them down. You say this at a time when you know that these reservoirs have neither refrigerators nor currents. In our case, in fact, you are the ones who are consciously turning private professionals and businessmen into deserters in Sahara. You ask them to pay you a 100% tax advance, a maximum tax scale, 25% insurance contributions and 5% solidarity contribution. At the same time, you allow your loved ones to receive pensions of EUR 3 000 and you consider it fair to give young people, who enter the workplace of EUR 300, 400 and 500, a wage. Then you have the nerve to discuss development! All this is happening in the misery and the inaccuracy of the Greek market. In fact, according to your own budget implementation figures, divest the revenues from VAT and excise duties. I mention, for example, that the deficit for the first quarter of 2016 is estimated at EUR 500 million. The current taxes on the income of legal persons, which are less than EUR 127 million, seem to be left unpaid. In fact, in the first four months of 2016 something unprecedented has been happening over the last few years: The enclosure rate in businesses is higher than the starting rate. I am also referring to what I have said. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] After all this chaos, which you consciously cause in the market and the private employee to either be a private employee, a professional or an entrepreneur, wait again to bring development into a special development law. Let us move on to more specific points. First you ask for a paradox from every potential investor. This is percentage according to the amount of each investment proposed and in several cases is enough to amount to several thousand euros. This paradox would reasonably ensure an increased level of quality in the assessment of each investment proposal. In other words, when I as an entrepreneur get out of my pocket and pay a large sum to the state in a paradox, I expect a minimum reward service. In Article 14 you refer to and where you plan the evaluation, you say that for each proposal submitted there is only one evaluator, a person whose job it will be to draw up his evaluation findings and to submit it to the committee responsible. That's an evaluator you're telling us you'll find him from the Special Evaluator Register. So we go to read what qualifications this one and only assessor must have and we see that all he says is that he must have a degree in HEIs or computers and knowledge. In this respect, however, you do not go any further in the formulation of more specific specifications. On the basis of the JRC's specifications, we draw some conclusions from this process: whether you are vulnerable and indifferent to entrepreneurship and investment, or that you are hysterical, and you wish in any way to postpone the assessment of investors in order to benefit certain individuals, or that you do not have any interest in private investment for our country. In this regard, you should go ahead with the obvious. Set a group of primary evaluators and not a natural person. Set specific specifications and qualifications. For example, a million euro investment by a computerized company cannot be judged by someone who has a training course for fish farming and simply knows from computers. The bodies which examined this bill and were invited to a hearing requested specific things and tabled concrete proposals. The figures are hopeless both for the country's development orientation and for government policies, which in no way led to an economic or investment recovery. In particular, of the six thousand three hundred seventy-seven projects, the contracted debts amount to 5.5 billion, while the two thousand two hundred and one non-active to 2.4 billion. This means that contractual debts exceed EUR 3 billion. In addition, estimates refer to capital requirements in respect of the private economy's fixed capital of at least EUR 79 billion in order to restore it to 2010 levels, where there was a positive sign. I submit for the practical sources and the table showing these amounts. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You see that the market as a whole calls for stability and fiscal and investment policy, without limits and discrimination, neither in terms of activity nor activity. Common, fertile rules for all. What do we propose, as a Centroon Association, for development? First of all, stable and strong government. A government with the soul in the mouth, no investor trusts it, whether it is Greek or foreign. I shall mention eight of our proposals in a brief and concise manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u92	The government's stable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u93	Steady with a hundred and fifty three MPs? Of course, it's stable and you're after Mrs. Catrivanou to vote for Mrs. Baghdad and others. Let's not open a dialogue. If you consider stability with a hundred and fifty three, please, please! So our proposals are: Firstly, a reduction in non-wage costs, i.e. a reduction in insurance and employers' contributions, which is now up to 50% of income. They are the highest in relation to the other countries of the European Union. The average is 26%, while the average of the other OECD countries is 28%. Secondly, the restructuring and simplification of the tax system. The demonic tax system with the many exceptions and the rospheric loopholes of the guilds keeps us trapped at the bottom of the European market. Third, tax incentives, the introduction of permanent tax incentives for all companies active in Greece for a certain period of time. Fourthly, we read in this bill that the compulsory nature of the same participation is abolished. In other words, there is no need for someone to have the capital in his bank account in the first place, as was the case in previous laws. But, on the other hand, we have tightened the regime for ensuring the necessary external funding. In order to achieve what is stated in the bill, there should be specific arrangements for private investors at the same time. Currently investors, subject to their decision to make the development law available the expected amount to the banks, taking loans, so that the investor and the bank are considered to be faced with another non-performing loan. The solution is in agreement with the banks and granting five-year or ten-year government bonds so that the public can meet their obligations, investors will not have any debts and the bank will have a serviceable loan. Fifth, the opening of closed professions. It is unacceptable to keep your client state today, promising everything in your favourite consortia. With such unemployment and social impoverishment, your attitude is criminal. Sixth, a reduction in the cost of wages between the public and private sectors. It must stop being seen as a very privileged public sector at the expense of the private sector. So everyone is looking at how they are going to get comfortable right now and that leads to the opposite of productivity. According to ELSTAT, the average civil servant has 35% more wage benefits than the average private employee. No moral and political attitude justifies that. Seventh, quicker justice. It is also unacceptable, especially with regard to commercial and civil matters, that private professionals and companies should expect to do so after many years. And eighth, to put an end to the slow-paying and substantial evaluation in order to obtain an efficient and productive public that serves the private initiative and does not undermine it, as it does today, as well as computerisation and development of the technological infrastructures in all services, with which the private and the professional are traded. The state is not spoiled, dear members of the government's majority. As long as you feed your guilds and the client state, as long as you target the private sector and entrepreneurship, as long as you perpetuate this rotten, demagogic and popular power profile, not only growth will come, but we will become a caricature country. Without a private economy, our country is doomed to eternal misery. When everyone in this Chamber gets rid of the authority, when instead of'survive' you will encourage events with the slogan 'cooperative', when you sit on the same table and look at the good of the country, when you understand that the increase in taxation only causes an increase in smuggling and tax evasion, as well as investment incentives, then - and only then - there will be hope of real growth. Until then, we will just be a country where there will only be state officials, only pensioners, only tax-gunkers and only smuggling. Until then we will receive thanks from Bulgaria, Romania and Cyprus and so on. for the development we bring them with our own money, which we export to their own countries. We are voting against this bill and we will place ourselves on the articles in the relevant vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. We give the floor to the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to understand the criticism of the new development law. I find it difficult to follow the arguments of counter-population. I find it difficult, first of all, to hear a mixture of ideas that the road to development, as half of us recommend, is Bulgaria's road. If there are people who believe that this should be the country's development strategy, they should analyse it in all its aspects, but not selectively, and, secondly, whether it is in line with the needs of the Greek economy and the exit from the crisis, too. On the other hand, the criticism is that we are not helping to become a normal European country, which others have either created it or were ready to create it and on the back has changed the scene because the SYRIZA - ANEL government has come to power. I would, however, avoid such a general debate if we did not have the data on the bill we are discussing today. The draft law we are debating today is a new development law and is fully integrated into the economic context, as shaped by the agreement that the country has with creditors, as shaped by the completion of the first assessment and shaped by the circumstances of a real possibility of exiting the crisis, in a way that we, as government and parliament, are choosing. Let me remind you of the fact that the agreement we have had since last July concerns three specific issues. It is about the fiscal stability of the Greek economy. You may be critical that the measures of 5.4 billion are many, fair or unfair - but I would remind you that Memorandum 1 provided for a financial adjustment of 40 billion, the Memorandum 2, implemented by the New Democracy in a very short time. We thought - and rightly so - that the agreement we reached last July with the negotiation had two elements which made a milder financial adjustment. Firstly, it refinanced the Greek economy with 50 billion new loan, thirty years. This left the need to create large surpluses. At the same time, it created a mild fiscal adjustment of 1% of GDP per annum or 1.8 billion. So we are also in favour of this budgetary aspect and its content, namely the way in which this government has chosen to make the financial adjustment. I would remind you that our choice to make an adjustment to 2/3 with an increase in contributions and taxation in 1/3 with a reduction in expenditure had at its heart two fundamental commitments, firstly, that we will not continue to cut pensions - 40% already enough - we will not continue to cut wages - 40% were excessive, we will not continue further cuts in public expenditure, in the core of the social state, in the state of hospitals or in the education system, which did not allow further cuts. We have found a balanced fair burden-sharing strategy in two-thirds and a reduction in a small percentage, in order to defend this line, which I would remind you for the time being that we had put it before the elections in September. We said that this is the agreement, this is our strategy on how to apply the agreement to public finances and other sectors - I will refer to them as well - and with this strategy we went to the elections. We did so in a very honest, clean and honest way and Greek citizens brought us here. We have no worship for any authority. If we had it, we'd have served most of us long. The citizens have brought us here to serve what we have said we can do and do well. Therefore, the idea that we are moving on the sole criterion of worship to power is rather an unjust charge, especially when it comes from powers - thank God! - they had the opportunity for many - many four years to rule the place. The second part of the agreement was the stability of the banking system. Here we have proceeded to a successful recapitalisation, as the timetable was set before Christmas, and at the same time we have established a regulatory framework for the management of red loans, the big problem of the banking system, which we defended as we kept our basic commitment and with the legislation of December, which offers high protection for the first residence for the next few years, 25%, with a State subsidy of 35%, with support and strong protection and with the agreement on the liberalisation of markets, in which the first residence is explicitly excluded - I repeat for the most part - by the beginning of 2018. But the banking sector and the first assessment are absolutely crucial areas, because we all expect - and this is a common place - that it will make a decisive contribution to the refinancing of the Greek banking system, with lower interest rates than the European Central Bank, when three - four key conditions are changed, which New Democracy critically devalues. I don't know why. Is it against Greece entering the QE? Is it against the European Central Bank to repurchase government bonds? Is it according to the New Democracy that the titles of the Greek banks have a smaller discount than they have today? What you think is a negative development and why this will not contribute to the smooth financing of the Greek banking system and its ability, from there on, to reduce interest rates, to increase sponsorship in the Greek economy and so on.Huh? The third issue concerns structural changes. The first evaluation has one of these structural changes. The second will be the next evaluation that will follow in September and has difficult to deal with, such as work, which has not been discussed. However, the part relating to the first assessment must be underlined, because it is relevant to everything that we are discussing today on the development dimension. With regard to a large number of the issues which the current Government is calling on to go ahead with the business climate, namely the possibility of further simplifications from bureaucratic commitments, the simplification of markets, and so on, the Government has successfully completed this unity and facilitates what is, in fact, the issue at issue by closing the first assessment and objectively, whether we like it, or not, is actually raised. In other words, the conversion of the Greek economy into a positive orbit, in a process of exiting the crisis, to a development orbit, is actually underway. I repeat that this is a complex issue and not a single one. Neither the developmental law in itself nor any other tool in itself can de facto be the absolute factor of this conversion. That is why we are talking about a more general development strategy and the mobilisation of more than one instrument, with which we wish to turn the economy towards a development orbit. However, let me say a few words about this development strategy. We insist that our main option is a fair development strategy, that is, on the one hand, capable of getting the country out of the crisis, on the other hand, fair share the benefits of this development in the various social groups. This is not a rhetoric, but the answer to very specific real-time dilemmas, as we are discussing this development strategy. One version of this development strategy would say that growth will come from very low wages of a flexible labour market, low type taxation for neighbouring countries - several speakers consider this to be provocative - weakening of the social state of course and a strategy based primarily on the rapid emergence of profitability in any way. They argue that this together with a massive privatisation programme would resolve all these issues. This is the strategy that is proclaimed, formulated, shaped by too many circles, in which our Government is just on the opposite side. From the outset - I do not mean the last year - we have firmly considered and believe that the country's development will not be based on this data, but above all on the great advantage of the country that is its rich, educated, specialized human resources. No such development can count on it. This is the basis of development, and our development plan must be adapted around this major factor Greece has, which is a very important human capital. So growth will be of high added value. They must be activities, production of goods and services, structured around this human resource, compatible with this human resource. She'll be extroverted. The Greek economy has one 10% of GDP coming from shipping, one 10% from tourism in exchange terms, but only 10% from exports. So we are a weak export base that needs to be strengthened. It'll strengthen. This aid can only come from a large support to production, the real economy, the productive sectors and a strengthening of the advantages of the Greek economy in the fields of technology, innovation and other similar activities. So our ambitions and need to be more outdated and more dynamic, and the need for the branches where we have to turn our attention to be that of exploiting the advantages we have as productive potential is a common place for the strategy that this government is prepared to serve. I repeat, and there is no question of discussing it, that we are moving into the void, because the process in which we have progressed in planning the development strategy is at the stage of final integration. We ordered the study to the CIP. Institutions. We were handed over the DCL study a month and a half ago. We have completed the summary of the development strategy. We're in negotiation and exchange of views. There will be a timetable until its final completion. Therefore, this spectrum is not far from what I just said to you, it does not introduce anything other than that. We are also introducing an institution that will be able to renew this development plan, enrich it, diversify it, the institution of the Development Council. This is a two-way institution, which on the one hand has a scientific structure which allows it to design, think, propose, formulate proposals in a very flexible way, and has the second group that is participating with the social partners, especially in the area of dialogue and development of these ideas. So on the one hand it is the project and on the other hand it is the institution through which there will be an elementary possibility of reflection, differentiation, the development of new ideas for the development project itself. The third issue is the relationship between private and public investment. This is a dialogue that is barren, in my opinion, a controversy without substance, for the very simple reason that the economy will obviously come out of the crisis if we have private investments. That is what the country's historic model has said in the past twenty years: one third is public investment - necessary, without them we cannot get out of the crisis - both thirds are private. Of course, and that's the structure. This structure cannot be changed, nor is this an element that is an essential element of a strategy which is different from that. Now, the question is how these private investments are mobilised. The state can make state investment, public investment, design them better than the past, be better choices, have more effects multiplier in the economy, not bad projects, and are projects that actually have an impact. The second thing that he can do is become an asset in the private investment process. What are the means and tools we have? It's two. It is funding and the institutional framework. I would remind you that there is a balanced approach to this issue from the government's point of view. We have the NSAs. In the new NSRF 2014-2020, if you see, a third of the resources will go to entrepreneurship. If you look at our first ESRB programmes, at the centre of them they have the very small business and youth entrepreneurship. This is the mark of entrepreneurship programmes coming out of the new NSRF. And it is aimed at young scientists, unemployed people, small businesses who want to modernise, in small sectors of the Greek economy, tourism and so on. What are we doing? So we have a small entrepreneurship at the heart of the ESDP programmes, with a lot of emphasis on youth entrepreneurship, startups, innovative small enterprises, the mobilisation of this potential. That is a given we have and we are using. The second is the development law that we are bringing to Parliament today. Let me remind you here that the new development law is designed for small and medium-sized enterprises. I say this because many of you have criticised the fact that we are setting a ceiling at the highest point of incentive offered by the development law. This means 5 million per investment project, 10 million per enterprise and 20 million per group. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] At this point, I would like to remind you of the data from previous development laws. Some forty companies absorbed some 72% of the financial resources. The list of fifteen first firms shows that they received 190 million, 170 million, 150 million and so on. The sectoral structure under which the huge percentage of resources were allocated was two: large tourist investments and large wind parks. We're changing it. We're making another mark in this law. We say "that's all right, good, gold, saint, of course big investments are welcome," but here we are talking about what help the state offers and what goals. This law says that the emphasis should be placed on production - primarily on agri-food -, emphasis on innovation, ceiling on subsidies, thus primarily on small and medium-sized enterprises, and emphasis on the dynamic perspective so that this whole system can bring the desired results. These are the aims of the law. Any other approach would reproduce the problems of the past. Let us now see what it offers to large businesses, so that we can also close this chapter. In large businesses we do not offer subsidies. We offer a 12-year safe environment and strategic investment - the third institution, which is for large investments over 20 million - which offers, as you know, rapid licensing. Under these conditions, the spectrum that the government has in the face of its development strategy, in our view, is being completed. We have a financial instrument that moves towards youth and small entrepreneurship, a tool that catches the bulk of small and medium-sized enterprises, preferably in terms of production, innovation and technology and an institutional framework that offers to large companies what they really want, security in the tax system, easy licensing, clean operating framework. These are the government's choices in relation to development law, in relation to the range of choices made and I think it is a structured strategy. It can be as critical as you like. It will be difficult, however, to see that there is no strategy on these matters. Let me now turn to the transitional provisions and the adequacy or not of the old and new development funds. I will repeat once again that we have received a chaotic situation in relation to the two old development laws. I wonder how the voices of the people responsible for operating investment laws turn against us, without recognising the chaotic situation. Six thousand and a few investment projects, 6.5 billion in debt, an average investment assessment of one and a half years and a selective choice of them, while everything has a line and a row, and the law provided that there would be a process that everyone should follow. Choosing what is being evaluated more quickly, which are more easily strengthened, which are forgotten in drawers and so on. So we have a chaotic system, which has huge debts to private individuals. So if this system criticizes us for not supporting private investors, that system that you served for so many years supported the private investor? I really have a question. So, let an investor - let him be Greek or foreign - a Greek investor who invested in that country, on what terms, under these conditions, did you support him in a cognitive system that we do not know when to assess? I'm applying for 50% of my investment, and it's been two years, and I'm not getting an answer. Who decided? I should like to make the most important point that we have taken a chaotic situation, without knowing who they have started, who they are unfair and who they have to complete, who they have not been paid or have been paid well, who they have paid well or badly, and who they should not have paid. This whole system wanted a process to get into order. In addition, all the money we had in the fund was frozen by the Commission, for reasons of corruption 2011, 2012 and previous stories. What kind of criticism are you doing to us exactly? The fact that we dug the money out of the Commission in May? In that we put in one class, at least in one year, and classified the three categories of investments, the ones that are real and complete, the ones that want some time to be completed and those that are not active? This law is therefore called upon, by these transitional provisions, to resolve this chaotic system and its problems. We're putting in order doing three simple things: Firstly, we are giving a deadline, a deadline within which the landscape is finally cleared with the oldly viable investments and we are responding to all those which, for various reasons, have not started, have never started or for any other reason. This puts a final barrier to the old chaotic system, I repeat. The second thing we do: speed up the evaluation process, that is to say, we promise that from this point on - forget about one and a half years and two years, forget all the files, which are, I do not know, lost, etc. - We are introducing a system of evaluation with external evaluators, which will be paid in a normal way, since until now there have been evaluators, but no one has gone, because they have been ambiguous on the basis of 30 euros a day, I think, because I do not remember exactly how they had built the system. Anyway, we promise that, in three to five months' time, the whole system will work, those who complete will be assessed within three months, those who are 50% the same, those who have started or are moving, there will be no bureaucratic obstacles. Thirdly, we commit real and not imaginary resources to repay these amounts: 2.5 billion - we regret - within seven years and under certain conditions within five years if the incentives are taxed within five years. Mr Lambrianides is preparing something - I am sorry for the overdoing - and for some other charges, which have been completed, to be five years. We'll get an improvement, but that's commitment, there's no other way. The money, however, is there, is committed to two major accounts, which are the Public Investment Programme and the ESDP. So we have committed money, which will respect the repayment of old development laws. Let me also turn to some other issues that have been raised on the substance, whether we have done and are open to changes and corrections of the law. Apart from the dialogue we have had with all the social partners, which no one can question, and integration - this has been seen - we have changed in the last two days on the basis of the proposals for counter-population: The same participation, the extension, we discuss the books B' category, the seven instalments we are discussing, the reduction of the minimum number of companies involved in claisters, the reduction of the minimum number of enterprises involved in local spatial patterns, the reduction of the minimum investment in CYPDs to 75,000 and in micro-enterprises to 100,000 euros, the increase of the zone characterised as a border area from twenty to 30 km, the provision for LEIs, the increase in buildings in 60 for hotels, in 70 for logistics, in 80 for keepers, the purchase of old machinery up to seven years, the employment clause that we support. We are introducing the concept of saving natural resources in the prospect of a circular economy. We are introducing the concept of a solidarity between the two sides of industry, and we are enabling the investor to be present at the secretariat's trial. Do we have the image of a government that does not listen, does it not discuss, does it not form a framework in dialogue? Are these related to this demagogic attack we heard from the representative of the New Democracy? Where to start and where to finish! Cannabis to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u96	Minister, you have already exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u97	All right, give me three minutes. I'll start with the cannabis that's a friendly subject. If I remember correctly, the culture of cloning cannabis came with a bill of New Democracy, it's n.4139/2013. Withdrawal of this law or do you think that the directive of the European Union8/1990, which says that all national states have to introduce the cultivation of cloning hemp, will we never apply it in that country? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I say, will you withdraw the legislation you introduced and voted on, or are you suddenly discovering the demagogy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u98	Please, no dialogue. Minister, let's finish slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u99	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u100	We're on our way to the target. Say it. Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u101	The absorption of Community funds, as many times as we say - for the previous year, you accepted that we have absorbed the resources - in the current NSRP, the data will be provided to you is already 13%, which is higher than all the Member States. For the second time, you are disputing, as last year, on this matter. As far as your aid is concerned, I said that no matter how many times the investment law has 3.6 billion. The 2.5 billion, which is the old ones, the new one and one that has already been given to the old ones. This is important because there is a debate on employment, on the sixteen thousand new development workers and on the sixteen thousand old development workers, on these thirty-two thousand jobs, on how to calculate, on the direct or indirect impact on their employment in an economy. And here let me say that - one minute more and I will close, as I arrived 30 minutes - the established methods of calculation are two I think. It could be a third of the colleagues here. It is the way in which direct and indirect jobs and jobs are made from a particular investment, that is, if the rate is between two and three. This is the one method. The second method is the percentage of GDP for these investments. According to our calculations, investment from the whole of development laws is estimated at 26 billion or about, that is to say, a corresponding percentage of GDP, and that shows a figure for the assessment of employment. I imagine that whatever way you choose - one of you will choose, unless you discover a third - you will have some approaches to these positions. In conclusion, I would like to say this: this government, contrary to every sense of disaster, considers that at this juncture one cycle has been closed and another cycle is being opened. Whatever the catastrophic forecasts are for the next six months or for the next six months, no matter how much it is to try to be seen as having a government without strategy, without competences or incapable of thinking, acting and interfering with the way in which this economy is going to go, one thing is certain that we will proceed without you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u102	We shall give the floor to Mr Teddy, a Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Four speakers and four speakers will be followed by a parliamentary representative. Mr. Dendia, excuse me for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u103	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u104	I say this because Mr Kaklamanis had announced that a parliamentary representative will speak every three speakers. On the basis of the timetable for today's sitting, which is the twelfth evening, they will speak, with good reason, less than fourteen speakers, even ten speakers. That is why I propose instead of going to circles of three speakers, as the previous President-in-Office has said, that we go to circles of four speakers with a parliamentary representative next. I'd be beg a lot about respect for time. Come on, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, first of all, I can only say that the Minister for Development took about twice as much time as he intended to explain the contents of this monument, as the Government presented it, a development law. And I must say that listening to him, especially the first eight minutes of the extreme, the disproportionate to the importance and scope of the legislation, I felt the need, in any case I thought that perhaps the Greek society, Mr Minister, should apologise. Because obviously, as you presented them to us, you are a government which, directly from the outset, clearly told the Greek people what can wait and the Greek people, having been completely enlightened by you in September, voted. And now, of course, he is unjustly complaining about your government, because you are doing what you have told him. Now, because 86% of Greek citizens give your Government the designation of "false" - I use introductory terms, because I do not like these expressions - that is, about one in your two voters, beyond all others, this is what I imagine is going on in the psychological way of forming the Greek society and has nothing to do with the fact that you, as government, have completely concealed the truth, in all phases, until today, of your government service. In fact, after your government's aim, which you presented in a way of eloquent - one, two, three - I can only say to you that I was deeply disappointed when you mentioned as the goal of the SYRIZA Government - ANY the stabilisation of the banking system, ignoring, of course, completely, that the stabilisation of the banking system came as a need for your own destabilisation of the banking system on days, brilliant, intelligent, triming Minister of Finance of your Government, the well-known to all of you, your beloved society, Mr. You have presented to us here, Minister - not so much I must say, as the government in general - this development law, which we are discussing today, as a tool that is decisive because it opens a new cycle, a development cycle, after eighteen months of inactivity, silence, development silence in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that this development law is a development law, which, in many cases, demands a copy of the European Union's General Aplastic Regulation 651/14. That is not necessarily bad, but when we talk here it is good to tell the truth. When we present large sections and major changes and large openings of new circles to tell what we are doing. We have replicated and did not copy that much, because this is where we have a very heavy regulatory framework, for which too many ministerial decisions are needed. And since I have seen the issues concerning red loans at the speed of the government, where ministerial decisions were required, I must tell you that I also have the great fear that, in about six months, it is budgeted, in an average way, a government for the adoption of these ministerial decisions, in order for the development bank to function, will not be respected. And at about no time from now on we will be here and have a similar debate at the level of parliamentary control, if, of course, this is a great 'if', I would not be in favour of this concept, if I had to predict the future - that government is still in power until then. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a principle which we all know here. It has also been formulated by your own ministers, we all support it, and the Minister who recommends the legislation. The Hellenic Republic, the Greek state, the Greek society needs 100 billion private investment. That's the truth. We all know that. The question is, then, whether this development law offers something serious in this direction or is simply a debate to do with it. I must tell you that this development law comes - and this is a reasonable paradox, which was admitted in the debate - without a development proposal. In the committee, but also in the committee, it was clearly stated that a study has been commissioned by the JEP, this study on development policy has been received, but all that is available at the moment is an executive summary - the Anglo-Saxons - which, in fact, has not been submitted to the Greek Parliament. We don't know. That's all we got. So this development law does not come as a tool for a formulated, debated, agreed - even by a majority - strategy. However, it comes in the custom of the government "the first-time left" - "Player Right", as the first car and then the donkey. First the development law comes and then the development strategy will be announced. And that's what you call a recipe for success! In addition to that, the reality is and it is not hidden, as it exists in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State - I know that every time this figure is mentioned, the Minister is a little uprooted, but I imagine that it is now accustomed to and I will not provoke this reflex - where it says that new investments will be made by 2022. That's the amount. He's talking inside. Of course, some money will go to previous investment projects, right. There's no objection to that. How much difference can the 480 million - albeit leveraging - be made to the need for the 100 billion required to come to that country to get out of the crisis? Ask your logic each one of you. In the best way, with the best treaty, what can we achieve? I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, it is too tiring here to hear a repeated lie - and I am not referring to the Minister, I am referring to government policy in general. If you remember back a few days ago, the Prime Minister of Greece, Alexis Tsipras, in a intense debate we had - remember that story, with that fund that we gave to the entire property of the Greek State for a hundred years - he had come and said that from the revenues of the fund 50% he will go to investment and growth and 50% will go to debt. So 50% - we are talking about 50%, as the Prime Minister says here, and I imagine that his statement in the Minutes of the House is not in dispute, it is on 22 May, and I put it - 50 billion is 25 billion. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So one here in this development law, after one and a half years' delay, would expect a procedure whereby these forecasts, supposedly 25 billion, would come and finance development projects. Because otherwise what does it mean to be used for development? Apart from the development framework? Do we have to wait for another development law? Another SYRIZA - ANEL framework, in addition to what we are voting on today? Will the country have one, two, three, four, five, six, twenty-five development laws at the same time? Let's know. Of course, neither was the truth told in the House, because if you bother to read Law No.4336/2015 - the third memorandum, which is yours, will be your political heritage and a deposit in the next generations of the Left - you will see that 50 billion are divided into four. In other words, it is 12.5 billion of what was theoretically then, in August 2015, would go to growth. To the needs of populism and to convince society about the single fund you have made 25 billion. But that doesn't matter. Neither the 15 nor the 25 nor the 35 nor the 5 is predicted anything. They are words in the air, as words in the air are the whole system that you are building here. I must also say this: I respect the government's political choice to finance small and medium-sized enterprises. It's a political choice. I get it. That's what he judges, that's what he wants, that's what he thinks. I'm sorry, though. I repeat: we all agree here that we need 100 billion investment projects and we do not need them in 2022, but we need them now. Why do we need them now? He would say a genuine left: 'To benefit pluralism'. We don't need it for pluralism. Pluralism is well without Greece, you know. They don't have a big headache in Wall Street about how the Greek economy goes. They can live well without the Greek economy. Like City in London, I have to tell you, no one has lost their sleep to read your development law. I must tell you that, in Frankfurt too, it is rather unnoticed that this 'big piece of legislation', which we are debating today, will go through. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know why we need the hundred billions? Because we have 26% unemployment and we have 50% unemployment in young people. That's why we need the hundred billion and we need it now. I ask you: why don't we do something about these hundred billions we need? You will tell me: 'We have no money to give them subsidies'. That's right. We have no money to subsidise, even though we would have 12 and a half or twenty-five billion that the Prime Minister told us we have it in our pocket again. What did it matter to give them tax exemptions? Tell me. Apart from the steady climate, tax exemptions, why not give them? Are they coming anyway? So if they come, we won't win? We are therefore making a development law which, as a tool - and rightly so - attaches importance to tax exemptions. Right, I'm saying it again. I, you know, don't believe in the grants, the free benefits. I don't believe them. I think it was a historical mistake what happened. We are, however, going to the tax exemptions procedure, and we are waiting for a volume there. It does not appear in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. He's only talking about 27 million, which is funny. In any case, however, let us accept it as a political direction. What would anyone who comes to Greece and brings a big investment project, to have tax exemption? You see big investment projects coming together in Greece, and we don't see them? Do you see anything happen about this? The steady climate that you promise with a 29% tax rate, do you think it will move anyone? Do you think anyone is going to come here in this great European development project of the Greek economy that you today imply entering? I tell you to know - because I think you have forgotten - that Greece is the only European country that is in recession for a third quarter, in the first quarter of 2016. He's in recession, not growth. If you look at the EUHS statistics this year, they have been closed so far - I think - fifteen thousand fourteen hundred thirteen companies compared with ten thousand and something last year, that is, an increase of around 48% in the companies that closed down. This is the opening of the new economic growth and growth cycle in Greece! So what are you doing? Where will this development come from, so that we can understand it? If you want us to understand this, we should help you, because we must not always forget that all of this, beyond our disputes, beyond our disagreements, beyond our tensions here, is a national effort. 50% of the unemployed under the age of thirty are 'narrow' in the national future, it is a depreciation of an entire generation. When this generation comes to ask for the floor, it will not look too hard for who was a government and who was a opposition. We'll all take the ball and we'll all share the responsibility. That's why I'm saying yes, we can't help but we can't help if you don't have an elementary realism. I explain: What is your elementary realism? I have here a list of taxes you have imposed lately. You've increased VAT twice. You've increased the income tax. You've reduced your tax duty. You have permanently simulated the rates of solidarity levy and you have increased them. You have increased the tax rates for premiums. You've increased the rent tax. You have abolished the discounts on the one-off payment of income tax. You have abolished the exemptions on the payments of HISPIA. You have increased the advance payment of the income tax of legal persons. You've taxed dividends. You have abolished the reimbursement of excise duty on oil for agricultural use. You have increased the income tax on farmers. You have increased the cost of raw materials in agricultural production. You've increased insurance contributions. You have increased HISFIA in the plots, parcels, businesses, in the flats. You've increased the tax on investment companies and real estate investment companies. You've increased the cigarette tax. You've increased the excise duty on beer. You have abolished the special reduced VAT scheme on the islands. Isn't that right? You have also abolished the special scheme for alcoholic beverages in the Dodecanese. Isn't that right? You've put a tax on coffee. Am I wrong? You've increased the tax on gasoline. You've increased the taxes on heating oil. You've increased the tax on diesel traffic. You've put an end to mobile phone bills. You've put an end to pay-TV bills. Beyond the end of the misappropriation, you have taxed accommodation to hotels. You've put your stay tax in the rooms. You've taxed electronic cigarettes. You've increased the registration fee in cars. You've increased the registration fee to the trucks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need two - three more minutes, not fifteen like the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this? Excuse me, to understand, when the Minister comes here and talks to us about your sensitivity to the social state, please tell me: all of what your sensitivity is to the social state and to the Greek citizen? Are these the taxes of the rich? The poor of these taxes don't pay them? And you're talking about a social state when half of the cabins in the SATs in the country have operating problems? Just so I know, what social state are you talking about? Is there any sense of what is going on outside this Chamber or has the government completely lost it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u106	Who brought us into this situation? You don't have a responsibility? Are they alone? Be serious now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u107	Don't resurrect, Your Honor, don't resurrect!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u108	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u109	You've done so much all this time. That's all that makes you insurrection? You've done much worse. Apart from that, ladies and gentlemen, and beyond the budgets, tell me, is there any structural change in your programme? Just so I know and understand. Everything you do has to do with the old-fashioned approach of the greedy kind. And I can explain to you: the term 'eco-engineering' which concerns an indirect attempt to legitimise arbitrary, which you introduced into the Greek legislative framework, do you know him at all in the last law that you voted on? The abolition of the definition of land uses and the return to the vicious '87 regime you do so. Is that structural change? Let's understand! Or what you did a year ago, for a year and a half, to simplify the licensing of businesses, not to have made it a step forward, what kind of effort and assistance is it in entrepreneurship? Well, let me know!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u110	Why didn't you? Twenty years you've done nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u111	You're desperate about what you're doing, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u112	You're the only one who did anything, so you didn't do anything in the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u113	Soon you'll have to hit your head against the wall, but what to do! There's the wall, hit it. Beat your head on the wall for what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u114	Please, no dialogue, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u115	But other than those who want to go further. Do you want to tell us a little why the country has been lacking a single procurement programme for two years and all the savings that the single procurement programme could bring? Why? Is there a need behind this? Ladies and gentlemen, reality is one. This is not a fair development that you are serving. What serves with your policy - and to many people you are beginning to suspect, hence your reactions - is an unjust bankruptcy and not a fair growth. What you're doing leads the country mathematically to the stagnation. The proposal for a low tax rate followed by Cyprus and which took them out of the memorandum and which you are trying with some peculiar thinking of your own, which is completely inexplicable, to demonize is the only current development proposal for a country with the characteristics of Greece today. Your perception that you can constantly impose more taxes and more taxes and contributions as magic by imposing more taxes, i.e. removing money from the private economy, becoming richer if you manage to achieve it will be your ticket to claim a brilliant Nobel in the history of the world economy! Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to tell you this, but tomorrow there will be a gathering which has somehow upset you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u116	Are you going?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Treasury, slowly finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u118	Mr Philis has even said a little bit that he is moving to the limits of constitutionality. I was here when you were all prolonged as a Roman legion out at the events of the "Indignant". For some reason, you have now gained another sense of constitutional legitimacy and sensitivity, which is addressed to the Qualified Anti-Civilisation and other parties, and indeed in an interrogative way. In other words, we as parliamentarians are obliged to answer to you whether we are going to demonstrate ourselves somewhere tomorrow and you have the right to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u119	No, but don't hide.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u120	You're going?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Teddy, please have it completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I will not spend the 20-minute period, just claiming the minimum...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u123	At first you asked me for two or three minutes. Now we're talking about 20 minutes. Please, please, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u124	Eighteen minutes is not the time of the parliamentary representatives, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u125	It's 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u126	Oh, you cut me something, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u127	You have a secondary right. I'm just saying we should get the time, 'cause it's at the expense of speakers afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u128	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if one of us goes - because you asked me, I would like to speak frankly, I will not go - please do not impose a penalty on him. Look at him with some kind of decency. And anyway, do me a favor. We may go or not go or do whatever we want, but you, if you have kindness, listen to the motto of the event: "Resign!"
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u129	We start the circle of speakers with the first speaker Mr. Diaras from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Deiaras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, as I have stressed in committees, the right strategic choice for our country is a sustainable and fair economy. These two features go together. Sustainability needs justice, but justice without a viable economy, which will probably result in a collapse, has no practical effect for citizens. Sustainable development and a healthy economy are a prerequisite for justice that is transgenic and orderly. The priority for a sustainable economy is agricultural production and the food self-sufficiency of each region and all of the country as far as possible. The minimum for our country is with proper planning to get to a positive external trade balance in agricultural products. It is not right to put the burden on tourism alone, even though our country has a comparative advantage in this area. As you said in your speech earlier, Minister, we do indeed have to leave the large tourist complexes and go in another direction, to small and medium-sized enterprises, I say to social enterprises. In a time of crisis from exceptional and unforeseen events, tourism will stop and, if we do not have the agricultural machinery, the Greek people are at risk of starving. So sustainable economy is the balanced economy. Countries with a strong economy, such as Switzerland, which is similar to Greece as it is a mountainous country with tourism and quality products, have equally developed the economic sectors. Such sustainability goals have not been achieved in the past decades, nor has the present right and the New Democracy. I don't think that makes any sense at all. As it has demonstrated with its policy for all these years, but also with its position for this bill, New Democracy follows the model of neoliberalism, which means "all in large multinational companies". Neoliberalism, in combination with fabulous consumerism, is their doctrine. But they don't call him that, because he got a bad name, a bad reputation already, neoliberalism. They just call him liberalism, which sounds better. The word is produced by the 'friend of freedom' and indeed as a word has nothing. In practice, however, they support absolute freedom - market immunity, under conditions imposed by the world's largest economic lobbys. This domination of multinationals promotes countries such as the United States, Germany, Japan and others. But our country, and especially the Greek people, does not benefit from this model of economy. Greeks from housewives will become wardrobes and maids. If that is the vision for Greece of the future, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, tell us. But the PASOK also evolved in practice from a social democrat party to a party that implemented neoliberal policy consistently. So we - and I speak first as an economist, but I think I am also expressing the SYRIZA Members - who, in necessity, have accepted and voted the last memorandum so that our country will not collapse and the Greeks are hungry, we do not accept the neoliberalism that it finds toward him more and more citizens around the world. We do not accept the TTIP and CETA agreements which promote right-wing Christian-democratic parties in Europe and some people in social democracy. These agreements condemn small economies like our country and especially small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, the environment and then the planet. Will you tell us that the third memorandum has no neoliberal measures? Of course, it does. We have voted against such measures from a need in the face of a tough dilemma and after an unequal negotiation. We have voted with sadness - and I stress it - because we did not have another option in this time in line with our principles. Our choice was conscious of the specific potential and circumstances. We asked the Greek people not to leave management in the hands of those who brought the country into destruction. Greece, as a state, had four healthy banks a few years ago: a rural bank that exercised agricultural policy, a Post Bank, a Commercial Bank and the control of the National Bank of Greece. She had the telecoms on her hands. He had the public buildings you sold out. I'm talking about the twenty-eight big public properties that the prosecutor is now dealing with. He had the energy, the ports and so much. The healthy banks that the Greek State had, in the end, managed to take them into degrading prices some poor private individuals, without their personal risk, which you consider normal and normal. For me and those who are sad about all this is not normal, it is not reasonable, it is not moral to give everything to the multinationals, to the Germans, to the Americans and to anyone else. We do not consider that to be normal. We want a plan to recover the control of public wealth, which also means recovering the dignity of the Greeks. That doesn't mean we want them state-owned. We want the state to plan economic policy and not economic circles or other countries planning for us. I have agreed with the Greens to support a government that makes compromises, perhaps even mistakes, so that I do not have the power of those who have destroyed the country and who certainly do not want a healthy, sustainable and fair economy. Now, Minister, I would like to say two things about the bill. I have tabled two amendments with Mrs Meropi Jufi and Mrs Vayonakis, on a rational basis, to transfer taxes and tax exemptions from large tourist investment in social enterprises set up by the unemployed young people of our country, to support the social cooperative economy that will give hope to the young unemployed. While in other European countries the social economy covers more than 10% of the total business activity, in our country it is below 1%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. In addition, to tourist enterprises which, as I said in committee, give land and water for investments that are more than 20 million, we give, apart from the ground and the sea and the possibility of 'cash'. They necessitate this excellence of the built - up earth. So there is no need for tax exemptions up to 10% of the investment. On the contrary, those who need tax exemptions are self-employed, young entrepreneurs with innovative ideas. We must support them, take up the issue of reducing unemployment. Let us do the opposite of what the New Democracy wants, that is instead of a lot of big people, to give more to the young. I therefore insist on these two amendments, Mr Minister, and I would like you to see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u131	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u132	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that as far as the young people currently in unemployment are concerned, and inflame their homes, we need to find ways of bringing them into small businesses and exempt them from any tax for five years and perhaps after five, for ten years, from them. When they are in their homes, they have nothing to benefit neither the economy nor society. If they create something then we will have an indirect benefit both from VAT and other economic activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u133	Mr Andrianos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened a moment ago, we have all heard the Minister speak of a fair burden-sharing, that in September they told the Greek people truths, so they were voted on by the Greek people and they are now government. Really? Did you say that you would increase VAT to 24%? That you're going to increase contributions, that you're going to reduce duty? That you're going to cut off the CSCE this year? Have you told the farmers about the burdens you have imposed on them? Is that how you got 35%? Then why in polls is the feature of unreliability so high? Why is 70% more than that? Why are you described as unreliable if you said the truth in September and voted for what you said? I guess the opposite happens. Development - as the Minister has said - means that you must support and support the country's human resources, the educated capacity. Who disagrees with that? But what does the act prove? How do you support these people, the new scientists? With the charges they're forced to leave abroad? That, at least, is contradictory. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the conflict in the middle of the crisis has left the country a year and a half without development law. And he did this despite the fact that since the beginning of 2016 more than fifteen thousand businesses have put a locker that means either completely closed or went to neighboring countries more friendly to entrepreneurship. That's the truth, that's the reality. You left the country without development law, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, because you do not bother to see the importance of healthy entrepreneurship in the economy and society. The officials of today's government - plural, because it is too much - repeat at every opportunity that your ideology is contrary to the idea that, in order to divide wealth, wealth must first be produced. This is your perception of the economy. It is not just a mistake, it is completely irrational. So to be consistent with your ideology, instead of creating conditions for growth and fortification, you share poverty among the Greeks. And you do so in the name of a completely distorted concept of social justice, except that there too the results of your policy prove to be different from your declared objectives. You want to apply an isopediotic simulation and what you finally manage is to hit the heaviest ones in the heaviest way. The weak are the ones most affected by indirect taxes, by VAT at 24%. It is the unemployed who will find it even more difficult to find jobs than the insurance forecasts. Small and medium-sized, professional and young scientists are the ones who will be hit most by tax. Farmers who can no longer get away with it, and it is the micro-retired people who will see their lives making it even more difficult by abolishing the CSCE and the new cuts. It is not the rich and the high incomes that will experience the increase in VAT and indirect taxes. Anyway, within this darkness, it is only good that you brought at least one development law, even now, with some positive points. They are, of course, people's celebrations and no one is convinced, when we talk about a programme of just 480 million by 2022, which will even begin to enter the real economy, after another two years, while the economy needs at least 100 billion investments by 2020, and when we know very well that the state itself owes individuals, it owes the market 7.5 billion euros. So the 480 million are seen and proved very little for what the relaunching of the economy needs. Like people, your so-called celebrations for the third memorandum, for tax and insurance, for HNVIA and EASA, for the over ninety-nine years. Citizens now know your communications tricks well. Ladies and gentlemen, our comments on the bill have already been made by our rapporteur, the points we agree, our objections. That is why I would particularly like to focus on the ambiguity of the time when aid is being repaid and the rest of the previous laws. Not knowing the investor safely when to collect the money he is entitled to operates exactly in the opposite direction from the incentive. It is also problematical to exclude a large part of small and medium-sized enterprises that remains, despite the fact that you have finally listened to us and withdrawn the absurd criterion of seven years of profitableness in the midst of the crisis. You also need to make a commitment in this Chamber to the timetable for the adoption of the tens of ministerial decisions and the other red tape needed to start the programme. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we insist that growth does not come by decrees and orders. It requires political stability and social peace, positive macroeconomic practices, a fair, favourable and stable tax system. It needs easy access to liquidity, of course, with strict criteria. We need a state that is finally working as a humane, not as a force. It needs an emphasis on infrastructure and development, while even necessary breathing projects, such as Anavalos in Argolida, are not treated with due responsibility and your due interest. In Table 1, special regions for mountainous areas, I can see that there are areas missing in Argolida, such as the Arachnae, the Limnes, the Promum, the Achladokambos, the Lyrkeia and the Alea, which have to go in, the Minister, because they really have problems, they are mountainous. I therefore think that they should enter this specific table to strengthen these areas. So we need a strong social trust fund within and outside the country. That's where we need to focus. In what the current government majority sees as its deadly ideological enemies. Otherwise, it is a tragic irony to bail on a EUR 480 million programme by 2022, when our neighbouring countries actually offer investors incentives, tax rates and energy costs to half of what is in Greece and insurance contributions to one quarter. Ladies and gentlemen, despite what the SYRIZA executives say, redistribution and social policy presupposes the development and creation of national wealth. And this objective can only be achieved through the strengthening of a healthy private initiative. Otherwise, poverty will continue to spread and deepen and no tricks of isopediotic equilibrium, populism and the construction of internal enemies will solve the problem. In our homes, therefore, no one has the right to whistle indifferently. While we still have time, we must look at the reality, without ideological bumpers and do what we all do in this Chamber - or at least most - we know that we need to make investments in the country to create new jobs, to keep young people in Greece, to deal effectively with poverty and marginalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Listening to some of the previous and certain discernments about the use of cannabis for medical or other reasons, we are given an explanation of the various questions we have, how some Members vote with heartfelt memorials and measures that they did not want or other politicians have the divining or possibly tasting skills, when they say about tomorrow's mobilisations, which will be made, of 'Resign', that they include the sperm of the extreme right. The brick really has to go cloud in this Hall! And not to forget, welcoming to New Democracy, Mr. Mitsotakis at the Bilderberg Club. Today, I think, he's there. We've also seen some stigmats. Apparently, he must have been invited for luck, and the session should be fine. With regard to this bill, it wants excessive courage, political or not, to bring in a development bill - with too many questions and introductorys - after all that have been voted on, such as the third memorandum, which was voted on by the overwhelming majority of the House on 14 August last year, such as the multi-legislative plans that within them were all that had been voted on in the third memorandum and which dissolve what has been left of the Greek economy and society. And you bring a development plan - so you say - a bill, which in any case goes in a completely wrong direction. A development bill, which the only ones to give money, will pay back, is in some of the previous development. They are few, measured on the fingers of both or even one hand. They are the well-known pimps, the glamorous ones, the majority of the NSRPs and all the previous programs and now want to take the change, even though most of the projects, for which they had been subsidized, have not finished. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] We see a development bill, which is mostly based on tax exemptions, but which - and this should rather be unconstitutional - creates citizens and businesses of two speeds. Because there are no tax exemptions on the basis of geographical criteria - as used not only in our country but everywhere - in order to stimulate a remote region, an island. That's why there were some special tax exemptions for all of them. Now, perhaps, there will also be a tax exemption in a business located in Athens, outside of Katalis, in an industrial area within ten minutes of Dionysus or elsewhere. We see that in this development - as you say - a bill will create new positions of consultants, committees and all of this. Evidently, if we judge from your eighteen-month term, you will place additionally thickly paid unrelated to development - which is the bill - in key positions which will, of course, make decisions that the entire Greek people will pay in the end. You have not consulted the most successful Greek entrepreneurs at all, whether they are small or medium-sized or large. And even with those who have consulted within this Ethiopia you have heard nothing from what they have told you about how an economy should function properly. You are giving priority to large investments over EUR 20 million, regardless of what you say about small and medium-sized enterprises. These are to be heard by a number of people, because - if they understand - a small and medium-sized enterprise is also a company with fifty employees. How many businesses in our country have fifty workers at the moment? Minimalists. Most enterprises are either family or very small. That's what you should give weight to. And by giving priority to investments of more than EUR 20 million, you once again stand aside those for which we have foretold, the small and the very small ones. Because in the globalised society - which you worship and we despise - in order for the well-being of development to occur, we must protect the small and the very small ones at all costs. They were, they are, and will be for ever and ever the pillars of every healthy economy, every society. These family businesses, which you hit from all sides. We are talking about small merchants, craftsmen, farmers, farmers, fishermen, all those who together form the primary sector from which growth comes. Of course, we are also talking about certain specific industries, such as the shipbuilding industry, the shipbuilding industry - we have also tabled an amendment on this - the tourism industry, because Greece has some advantages in this sector - textiles, which was magnifying and merging in the previous years and with the tragic movements of the previous governments it was literally dispersed. And at the moment they are benefiting adjacent or third world countries at the expense of our country's homeland. Even the defence industry is capable both of the last multi-project and the amendments you have brought to it in the final, final blow. All of them are being banished by indirect and direct taxation, at the same time as neighbouring countries have a much more beautiful and positive fiscal, labour, insurance, bureaucratic environment. The business tax rate in Cyprus is 12%, in Bulgaria 10%, in Romania 16% and in Greece it is 28% and a 100% tax advance for the new year. Who's coming here to invest? And those who are here are gone or with the new measures are about to leave soon enough. By blocking comparative advantages in our country, which you should see and bring to the table in order to have growth and investment. Like the blockade of the sovereign agricultural rights, as happened with the feta, which the New Democracy had signed twice and now sign up to you and move on, for other agricultural products such as Kalamata olives, such as other cheeses and all that within the European Union, which is supposed to work for the benefit of the Europeans who make it up and make it up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] By not declaring the EEZ, which you are all saying, but you do not, because you know very well that this will conflict with your bosses within or outside this country. With the gift of golden state corporations such as the OPAP, such as airports, such as ports, which could bring continuous and endless money to the state corps and thus make state investments and make growth and anything else. To talk about debts. A country that owes as a whole, as they say, 800 billion euros can never have recovery, growth, cannot have anything at all if debt write-off is not done. And if I remember correctly, the last deletion of debts had taken place under the regime of 21 April, if I am not mistaken, to agricultural and all other debts. To understand and fight within the European Union for as long as there is, because it appears that Britain is starting next week, the sweater is pouring out, and it will get a flow on its own.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u137	Please put an end to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u138	Please, I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u139	I've already given it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u140	In order to do all this, there must be a national government, a government that is for the benefit of Greek citizens, for the benefit of Greek farmers, for the benefit of Greek entrepreneurs and Greek interests and our country. All this will be done at some point in the future with the help of God. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Gregorakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the deeper Greece is sinking into the crisis, the more it will talk about growth. Because we will want growth and the last citizen will understand that we can go through this crisis through growth. The paradox, therefore, is that it reflects within it and has in it tragicly deadlocks, in which we as a country have not found the solution. In fact, development is the government's superficial verbalism and it is nothing but a fantasy. The Tsipras Kammenos coexistence, after the first time on the left, now produces other fantasies, more than one can imagine, of course, than public opinion, society and citizens can assimilate. In fact, lastly, if you have seen, ladies and gentlemen, there is also this famous 'fair development' in order to be able to justify the unjustified change of the page. Mr President, after nearly seventeen months at the wheel of the country, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government finally managed to table in Parliament the famous development law. I guess the Minister was busy, he was in the country of Utopia with other more important ministerial work than to deal with the drafting of a law, which thousands of people were anxiously waiting for, to take a breath and be able to regulate their basic professional needs. Of course, the deposit of the development law was accompanied by a great government celebration show. Besides, one could not imagine anything different, since the festivities and joys are a basic component of the lie you tell the people, every black that you make it white, every election promise you made that fell into the void. It seems in your DNA, unfortunately, for those who have believed you, to dress up in a festive cloak every failure of you, inertia and delay, in your best known standards, which I would not even like to call in Parliament. How can the Greek people share your pleasure, Minister, for this law? We have a development law, ladies and gentlemen, which will only channel 480 million to 2022. Now, let's not say what amount this is in front of the millions we spent in previous years, when we know that Greece needs about 120 billion, so that it can get into a development cycle. Ladies and gentlemen, only the SYRIZA - ANEL government believes it will remain in power. And because he believes it, that's nationally dangerous. All my fellow Members, who are absent from the Chamber now, were fighters of stateism. After a year, they're the fanatical fiancés. The Memorandum of Tsipra goes far beyond the Memorandum of PASOK and the New Democracy. It's inspiring and inspirational. Those people who said, if you remember, that they don't want to hear anything about the privatisation of the Greek Sugar Industry today, they don't make any leap forward, but they go beyond themselves. They come to privatize the whole country. What we are living in this period with the Tsipra - Kammenos does not reveal the delusional SYRIZA - ANEL. They have no ideological obsession, nor any political suspension. Their debt is their authority, office and privileges. She undergoes, she serves, she believes. Their fantasy world is their refuge, which they think protects them from the anger and indignation of citizens, although I did not see Mr. Paulakis protected yesterday in Crete. However, the "Makiavelis" forget the saying of Machiavelli "whoever builds a fortress, to escape there, is imprisoned by the walls themselves and is lost". That's what SYRIZA is doing right now. Well, the ANELs don't even exist in the Chamber! Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, the reality is relentless. The facts not only speak but cry out. Acts are the only criterion of truth. Everything else is platinum. And to remind you of your Marxist advances, they are false consciences. That's what Marxists say. Therefore, do not deceive any more. Don't be trapped in your microcosm. Do not attempt to cover up the consequences of the harmful policies that you are following, citizens are not Lootaghans. Ladies and gentlemen, development law is not a report of ideas, nor is it an army of ambitious political objectives. On the contrary, he has to be intertwined with a political plan to get the country out of the crisis. The issues he raises are not independent of the economic and social environment in which Greece is currently in place. So the questions put, Minister, are essentially: How will the Greek economy be revived? How are we going to overcome the long-standing bureaucratic distortions and clamps, which are a brake on the country's development? How can we use the comparative advantages we have? Fourthly and more importantly: does the policies promote a new economic strategy, which is vitally needed by the place? The development law under discussion goes beyond these key questions. It does not respond to anything, either because you do not want or because you cannot give clear and clear answers. You don't want to be weaned by the state of the traditional left. You face the private economy and entrepreneurship with the strangles of the past. You don't want to get rid of the logic of public investment. You consider private investment, foreign and domestic, selling the country. You accept them, as with "COSCO" and Greek, because they were imposed by the lenders. What a cry you're crying at last! You don't want to fight customer relations. You see them as a tool for perpetuating your political sovereignty. You can't get away from your ideas. You cannot serve an extrovert and productive economy. Your concern is your party and political customers. They're the ones you want to serve, they're the ones you want to support. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, I shall conclude immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, a country's development law is not a key to serving your close party and political interests. It should be the key to providing opportunities and opportunities, based on a stable institutional framework, which is governed by rules of objectivity and transparency. The proposed draft law is a long way from this self-evident and imperative necessity and priority. Its provisions are a controversy of conflicting objectives. A left, afraid of the private economy, which incriminates entrepreneurship, which the state is mysterious, can only be an inhibiting factor in the development of the country. We will not follow you on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, too. Mr. Bunny from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u144	We are here today in order to discuss this development - the god will do so - a bill. A bill, of course, which we are discussing and which, if there is to be and be implemented in the Greek state, must have the agreement and necessary approval of the European Union and must be subject to the law of the European Union. This is our dismay, and we will keep saying it in the Greek Parliament, so that the Greek people can hear it. There is nothing the Greek Government can do if it is not accepted and has not been approved, and we repeat again, the European Union. You say you're interested in growth. Yes, to continue, though, and to see what kind of growth is. Development of the large multinationals, the huge investments, the ones that will come to a sold-out Greece to get the best pieces, the fillets, and work against a lentil plate and get workers who will have jobs. Except that these workers, as we were discussing a few days ago in the other bill, which came, of seven and a half thousand pages, can well be illegal immigrants, being foreigners, who will bring each other here, will give them three hundred and four hundred and work, while the Greek state has given them all the necessary documents. That's not what you're saying. In a few months' time we'll be here, we'll see all those people who will come to create growth in the Greek state, where they'll get workers and workers. Because another reason why you want the illegal immigrants here is, of course, that there are thousands of unemployed, so that each boss, every multinational, can tell the other: "If they don't make you the four hundred that I give you, go away. We have hands behind them to come." That's not what you tell the Greek people. What project is there, in fact, for small and medium-sized enterprises? What plan is there for enterprises employing five, eight, ten, fifteen people? There we should see what can be done and there we would base this process as Golden Dawn and that law. But there's nothing there. That is where we are concerned, whether they close or slowly merging, so that all of them, once again, become employees in multinationals. That is the objective of the current government. Let us mention here, in order for the world to learn - because if the Golden Dawn does not say it, no one will say it - the agreement of the Greek Government and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which took place a few months ago and which was voted on by all the wings. All the wings voted for this agreement in the Greek Parliament. So for the Greek people to know what this is, it is the bank that will come to an agreement with the Greek state and take the housing loans at at least 40% - and will make the houses and properties of the Greeks in the hammer. The houses and properties that have fought and fought a life to gain. So let us see what the "Greek" state gives this bank, the Development, as it is called, since we are talking about growth, to see that when someone is submissive and when he wants to give incentives and capabilities, it gives them easy. Listen to learn. The Hellenic Republic should, upon request, assist the bank to ensure suitable facilities and public utility facilities required for the activities of the local offices of that bank. The Greek state will take them and find them the buildings, give them them the money and provide them free of charge. We're on. Each local office of this bank will be entitled to bear the flag and emblem of the bank at the premises of the local office. Here's what's going on slowly. There is an inviolability of local office facilities. "Installations of the local office and any means of transport owned or held by the bank and the head of the office, wherever they are in the territory of the Hellenic Republic, will be inviolable and will be under the control and authority of the bank and the head of the office respectively. This is happening today in the Greek state with your own votes. That's what you vote for! I will continue, because there is a lot to be heard to learn and you will be torn the head when you leave this Chamber: "No Greek official or person exercising public authority, administrative, military or police authority, will enter the premises of the local office except with the consent of the president of the bank." If this is not a protectorate, if what you have done, is not a country under occupation, what is it? I also read: "The Hellenic Republic will take all necessary steps to prevent any spasm of the bank's reputation." The reputation of this bank must not be smashed! This bank will come, it will take the property of the Greek citizen and must not be broken, it must not be heard badly. Because if it sounds bad, you might have some people arrest us or arrest the ordinary citizen and take him to jail. Because that is how you have learned democracy and so you want to do it: do not talk about what you are legislating. That is why you have made and made Greece and the Greeks prisoners and daily suicides of our Greek compatriots, for whom no one speaks anymore, because you all get used to them! Can I go on a little bit further for this Development Bank? "The bank, its assets, its assets and its revenues are exempted from any form of taxation," when the Greek citizen gives it back to tax as much as 70% or more of his income. So this bank, which will take homes, is exempted from any form of taxation, ladies and gentlemen of this government. I continue, because there are many and I repeat that they must be heard: "The bank can, with the consent of the Hellenic Republic, install and operate telecommunications facilities and other transmission facilities in the Hellenic Republic". Is this all good? To continue: "The Hellenic Republic will take appropriate measures and issue to the competent officials the general visa instructions to any of the persons mentioned in the above section without delay and without payment of charges. The above persons are staff of the bank, dependent members and their household staff.’ Listen here. They will bring their domestic staff here, give them visas from the Greek state, give them the necessary documents and put them here to work night to steal the property of the Greeks. Let's go to the last piece, which is very pretty, to see that too. All of these will have impunity and immunity against prosecution. It states: "In the context of its official activities, the bank will enjoy immunity against any form of judicial prosecution in the territory of the Hellenic Republic". That's what they're talking about in here! And we continue: "The property and assets of the bank, wherever they are in any possession and be, will enjoy immunity against investigations, cheques, seizures, expropriations or any other form of deductions or commitments based on executive, judicial or legislative actions." That is what this treacherous government has voted for. And if after all this, which we read here as Golden Dawn, you are not submissive, then we do not know what the words are worth! You have lost any respect and had, you have levelled Greek society. What you are doing has never been done before and the time will come for you to answer - because you must account - and you will address Greek justice. And there we will see whether all of this, which you have done, is right or whether it is a sale and full submission of our country. So that's what you've done. And I repeat, for everyone to know, that this is what is being done to serve a bank, a bank agency, which will come and get the housing loans of our Greek compatriots. There are two hundred, then, in relation to all of this: Or you are traitors and you are consciously helping the foreign organs to do what we have said, at home, or are irrelevant and you vote for what they give you, without even reading it and without knowing what you are doing. Whether in one case or in the other, you are inappropriate and nationally dangerous, and you must definitely clear our corner. And, of course, this is not only about the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, but also about the opposition, which a few months ago in here was voting for all this! The only ones who did not vote were the Greek nationalists, the Greeks and the Greek Chrysayites. They didn't vote for all these bills, and that's why we're accepting all these persecutions and chasing. That's the truth. Well, development law, after all we've told you. The development law, do you know what it is? The development law is the free housing, feeding, health care of every reasonable illegal immigrant who is illegally crossing the borders of our country and is here and lives and is now reigning against the Greek suckler. This is the development law, when you are putting a noose in the neck and forcing him with the measures you take, whether they close their operations either daily or not to have what to do and to be disappointed and - I repeat - many to commit suicide. We have forgotten the suicides of the Greek citizens, but unfortunately they are not over. We forgot about the kids who go to school and faint because they don't have to get a cheese pie. We have forgotten about these, forgotten about them, and we are dealing with how subsidies will be granted and how we will go to extensions to the hotels for illegal immigrants that have come. And also, when they once went and gave a bottle of milk to a refugee who came here - because we all have a soul and we as Golden Dawn do not want, of course, nor die nor be troubled - news reports in this case played for fifteen minutes. Today, where there is a centre for illegal immigrants' residence, our Greek fellow citizens have risen up, they do not say it and nobody mentions it. They've all forgotten that. It has forgotten and this coup d'état here, the submissive coup d'état that has come to rule the Greek people, lying lies, consciously lying, who has won the vote of the Greek people. No Greeks voted to implement what is being implemented today and even the Greeks do not even know about it in all this globe of problems. And, of course, there is also the opposition of Mr. Mitsotakis, who attends the Bilderberg Club ceremony and processes. It is there to bend the head very much, to bend it a little more than the siege and to say that "I am better, put me here to run Greece, I will do all of this and even more with great joy", as they have done forty years after all, and they have reached us here. These are, then, development laws. And because we hear you talk and say here in the cabinets that you care about the Greek sidewalk, the Greek man who is afflicted to make it a living and go to his family with a decent piece of money, I tell you that we have tabled an amendment which, of course, according to all of you, is not bad and you must accept it. So show us your good will. From this development law you took out the ship repair industry. You took out the ship repair zone. Why? The Greeks specialize in this part. We have excellent craftsmen. We have people who have done a terrible job for years now on this. We could cover thousands of jobs, because it is not only the one who works, it is the entire circuit that will move, especially in the areas of the second Piraeus, in Perama, in Keracini, in Korydalos, in Nice, but also throughout Piraeus. That would give a huge breath. So, how do you get them out of here? Is it random? You didn't think about it? Well, I can't believe you didn't think about it. You do it deliberately. You don't want there to be growth, especially in the repair zone of Perama. You have kept a small piece now to supposedly do some work, but it's in the deal you've done with 'COSCO' to sell it. So when there is not a single ship to go to work, the Greek man working will be forced to do something else and to leave. And it is wondered how the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Vitsas, about a year ago, said: "In the choices of the SYRIZA government, it is the use of the country's comparative advantages. In these areas, too, the ship repair industry holds a separate position. The question - he pointed out - is not just to save the shipyards and the work of the workers, but to plan their development, as this gives prospects for their sustainability." So here we are. Do you believe all this? Because we say you're liars and you don't believe them, you won't be allowed to do it. However, if you have a vote of sensitivity, if you have a little bit of an eloquent, then accept this amendment. And let's say you did it, not the Golden Dawn. As long as jobs are given to the Greeks who work in the repair zone of Perama, Elefsina, Scaramaga, Syros, where thousands of new jobs could be created. Why don't you do it? Here it is, dammit it, and we'll tell you a good one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u145	Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Development law. You are insisting that it is a necessary tool to get the country out of the crisis, to get to the recovery, to growth, to create jobs. It brings together the interest of the capital representatives and business groups, who are congratulating you and expressing satisfaction with the government's work. After all, as the SYRIZA rapporteur said, there had been a lot of discussion and consultation with entrepreneurs' representatives and the final draft incorporated all of their proposals. We have no objection to the fact that this is the case, as it has always been, and we have no objection to the fact that, as the previous speakers have said, the New Democracy and the PASOK have had to accept their agreement, if not the cheque. Because they're the real authority. This is what the European Union represents, with the strategy that you are implementing and with this draft law. It's their organization, after all. There is a need for business groups. They serve all this legislative framework, which ensures them a cheap labour force, with the scanning of labour and insurance rights, with full flexibility, by reducing any trade union and democratic freedoms, the right to strike, so that without any obstacles to increasing their profits. It is their own need for tax exemptions, tax exemptions, development laws, ESDP and Junger packages, state funding in one way or another. These programmes, of course, exclude agriculture which, as you say, requires the assent of the European Union and the shipbuilding industry, which also requires the consent of the European Union. You see, it is the CFP that must go ahead and, of course, it is the choices made by the European Union, with the agreement of the Greek bourgeoisie for the shipyards. It is their own need to develop a friendly environment to invest ponds. It's all subject to capitalist development. Capital tools are both the cutter and the donor. This development, which presupposes cracked people's rights, lasting sacrifices, is not a saving for the people. This road is a dead end to popular interests. The ultimate incentive of the power of capital and its economy is the profit, resulting from the increasing intensity of the exploitation of the working class, from the enslavement of more and more state money, which is deducted by the robbery of the people, by the reduction of wages, pensions, by the reduction of funding for health, education, welfare and other social costs. This also serves the present draft law. The people for seven years now live up to the great consequences of the capitalist crisis, as well as the painful consequences of the memoranda and measures, such as unemployment, poverty and impoverishment, measures which are included in all three Memorandums, which you have voted on and in fact all agree with, except the JRC. We will also use another phrase, which is last called to call on the workers and the people to return a page, to be blocked by false dilemmas, frauds, blackmails, from the sovereign propaganda that there is no other way to go and that it must accept and support this development path with any management. But what development are we talking about and who will serve? We say that the workers and the people should draw the conclusions from development, for example, of tourism, and who benefit from the conditions of the jungle and galley, which have created for workers to increase their profits, from modern slavery, which have shaped with generalized apprenticeships, generalized flexibility, day-to-day contracts, endless hours of work with splits and trimmed hours. We have twenty-seven million tourists, a coarse billion euros, but employment is much smaller than that which was many years ago, with the income of the workers being small and lukewarm. The examples are many of all other sectors. The employer's and management's right has been strengthened and, in essence, defines remuneration and work conditions, creating working jungle conditions. Non-implementation of the minimum is a rule. The barbaricity and rottenness of this system must end. The dictatorship of capital must be overturned. Transit for the benefit of the people, the producers of social wealth, can be opened, if the working class takes the case in its own hands, in ruptured with the interests of pluralism, with the release of the European Union and the other organisations of capital. Philolian way out will come if the workers themselves take the keys to the economy and power, with their allies working and poor farms and organize production and society based on their own needs. The only solution to the working class is to get it out of the forces that hamper social progress and satisfy the needs of the people. These are the owners of the means of production, industrialists, shipowners, hoteliers and all kinds of businessmen. The working class is the force of progress. By its own power the major problems, which are now living by the power of capital, can be tackled definitively. And as long as this lasts, the life of the people's family will get worse. A life expectancy of workers, such as decent retirement and one-off, was sacrificed for the needs of business groups. The dreams of young people are crushed in the "millstones" of competitiveness, profitability and capitalist growth. Their lives depend on the designs of capital, on the choices of monopolistic and business groups. Gentlemen, Greece, with labour power, can produce a huge number of products, which it is currently importing. It can solve the food problem by exploiting its rich land and climate, with the productive cooperative and the socialised processing industry. It can provide safe healthy food and then make use of mutual cooperation with other exporting countries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The industry, which uses domestic raw materials in clothing and footwear, in the production of agricultural supplies, fertilisers, industrial units that can support other infrastructures necessary to address safe and cheap transport issues, popular housing, earthquake and flood protection, can be developed. Greece has, as was said by the Minister, a satisfactory level of concentration of the means of production of the commercial network and, to some extent, of the development of modern technology. It has an experienced and numerous workforce, with improved level of education and specialisation in relation to the past. Only the popular authority in Greece can exploit the huge untreated mineral wealth that can feed the socialised industry. This popular authority, in this form of economic organization, can further develop industry, such as steel, iron, copper, defence industry and the plastics that the country has. Today, however, these are in the hands of the capitalists, who, depending on where they obtain the profit they want, develop them or shrink them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Katsotis, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u148	I shall conclude, Mr President. The country's development potential is now being undermined because they do not profit the capitalists. In the context of popular power and economy, they will be fully developed for the benefit of people's needs. On this road, we call on the workers and the people to fight. The JRC will take the lead in organising the struggle of workers and people's strata. He's struggling for a populist labour movement that will put obstacles, make it difficult and overthrow this barbarity. This is the one-way for workers who today lack satisfaction with their needs, who are unemployed, poor and impoverished. And as long as this path of development continues, the more their lives will become hell. We are voting 'no' in the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Mavrotas from the river. It was a river that Mr Katsotis spoke in the meantime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. We expected the national development or productive reconstruction plan to take precedence - as you say - and then the development law comes. Eventually, he came first. The development law is a tool for mobilising private investment. When there is no public investment, we must somehow revive private investment. For the creation of a favourable investment climate in an economy, however, the following basic conditions must be met: Positive macroeconomic prospects, soundness of the financial system and low cost of loans, adequacy and completeness of basic infrastructure, legal certainty and speed of justice, integrated spatial and environmental planning and a stable and development tax system. In our country, unfortunately, there are quite a few of them missing and we have pointed this out on several occasions. I will, however, stand at the last point in terms of the stable and development tax system. With this development law, with the bill, we promise the first, but we fail in the second. We are advertising the possibility of fixed tax rates. 29%, however, is particularly attractive in the competitive environment of our neighbourhood, when the average European term is 20% and in our neighborhood there are countries such as Bulgaria, Romania, Cyprus, with 10% and 15% rates? It is not, of course, the exclusive criterion of the tax rate. And in the speed of justice and the soundness of the financial system, we are not doing well there either. Our rapporteur, Mr Amyras, has mentioned the various issues in detail. So I'm staying in some particular area. The development law is geared to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, as it now grants a much smaller investment than the previous one and to specific categories of enterprises and investment projects, such as extroverting enterprises, firms in a merger, cooperatives, companies in the technology, information and communication industries and agri-food industry. It excludes the lion's share of tourist units and accommodation. In no case does it indicate the specificities of each region. The lack of liquidity and the situation of the banks makes investment for a large number of companies forbidding. The grants, which it provides, are significantly lower than the previous law and, indeed, come to close tails than previous laws. The planned specialisation of provisions of the bill and additional ministerial decisions, which are more than thirty, are inconsistent with the rules of good legislation. But that is something we are used to. It must also gain greater simplicity and clarity to investors, with clear instructions and clear deadlines. There is no provision in the bill for any time limit to which the investment must be checked once the company concerned has made the relevant request. In other words, the procedure for the level of infringements, which companies have to make in order to seek control of their investment, is described in detail, but is not provided for in the timeframe in which the public administration undertakes to reply. The bill also provides for the setting up of a National Competitiveness and Development Council, which is still a new public body, your favorite hobby, that is. Finally, this bill is also a witness. We have also learned a secret, through the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, that HNVIA - this unfair law that is not corrected, but is abolished, as the Prime Minister said not long ago - will apply until 2031. The promise to abolish will therefore be respected, but from 2032. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, our country dropped 20 positions among the most attractive countries to invest on the basis of the "FORBES" list for 2016. It presents the worst performance among the euro area countries. And that's not absurd. To create a fertile investment climate, the government cannot lead ministers who have made a doctorate on "How to prevent investment in your country"! And you know who I mean, those who sign with pain and only when they're with their backs on the wall. The attraction of private investment - and it has been heard before - has been heard that we want about 100 billion to invest - is necessary because growth cannot come with the public as businessman, but with the public as the owner of the rules and unemployment, our '1' problem, cannot be hit by appointments to the public, but by jobs that will be created in the private sector. Here because we want to have a knowledge-intensive economy, we need to use our high-quality intellectual capital. The mobilisation of private investment is therefore the main issue of development law. It is, however, necessary, but not capable of a treaty on its own. In the new development model, therefore, apart from the right development law, there is also a change of attitude from the government in order not to have allergy to anything private. It has to be understood that the private and public sectors are interconnected with linkages in the same chain, which together ensure growth and social cohesion. The development law, then, we have here, is a first ruthless step. For the fair growth that the Prime Minister has invoked, many steps are still missing and, above all, there is a lack of a change in the government's direction towards business. Entrepreneurship is not the wolf that will tear us apart, but the horse that will pull our country out of the crisis, and this horse can't have it constantly cluttered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two hundred thousand young people have left the country in the last two years. Logic says most of them won't come back. The Greek family has lost over 50% of income over the past five years. Logic says he'll never recover it. Business is closing. Two hundred and fifty thousand businesses have closed down in the past five, six years of the crisis. Fifteen thousand enterprises have closed or migrated in the first half of 2016. The logic says that the way we legislate, these businesses will never come back to Greece again, they will never attempt here again. Ladies and gentlemen, the logic has gone on holiday and the Minister's absence is being exploited. It is very important for democracy and the Constitution to be honestly clear, if it is part of your argument, how you were blackmailed in July 2015 and continue to blackmail until today, when you talk about "heavy" and about "the sins of the drop". It's important, you know, because the government states that this law serves its development strategy. How much is this strategy hers? Since this strategy has been designed to implement what the wrong agreement of July provides, how can the government speak of a strategy of its own? The third memorial came to impose three things. First of all, fiscal stability. Second, financial stability. Thirdly, a stable economic environment and a healthy business framework. These three of us were told by the lenders that we should do and they imposed on us the manners under the general heading 'Structural changes and reforms'. These three were presented by the Minister during the joint meetings of the three committees as the key objectives of the government's development strategy and for exiting the crisis. Greece signed. For Greece, Mr. Tsipras was signed. Greece was bound by the Prime Minister when he signed that fiscal stability will be acquired by cutting it from everywhere in GDP per year to 2018, that the stabilisation of the financial system will be achieved by liberalising the banking and housing management market - and that the stable economic framework will be achieved by total abolition of labour rights and the dismantling of social structures. Gentlemen of the government, you have handed over the legislative initiative to the hands of lenders, so that the country does not come out of the Eurozone and that the country does not return to the drachma. This is your strategy. Those were your statements? There's a complete and humiliating tradition. This is the SYRIZA strategy today, in June 2016. How long have you, gentlemen, been going since June 2015, when your strategy has had lyrics, dugs, jugs? How long? So waiting for growth, the Greek people also awaited the development law. It did well, because this law - like the budget - is primarily law, when it comes to drawing up the opportunity for a government to implement its own policy, its own programme. But, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you don't have a schedule. Last thing you had, you shaved it. You were talking about tearing, and you finally kicked. The program, unfortunately, bears the name of the beautiful city of Thessaloniki, shaded it with your own hands, in front of our amazements all of us on a beautiful summer evening in Brussels. You do not have a programme, of course, nor do you have a strategy, but it is not yours either. The worst thing, though, is that neither do you hear anyone or rather - to be fair - you hear one or two. You are talking, as you said, about a 20th in the new framework of this law. You haven't accepted anything yet. You're in conversation. What if they talked seventy agencies from all branches? What if they sat down and took their eyes out to give you a hundred sixty written proposals? What if citizens bothered and tried to contribute, by expressing their opinion, their opinion, by offering the record number of four hundred and fifty three useful comments in electronic consultation? You tried to confuse some excuses for your huge delay, dared to invoke the unprecedented extent of public consultation around this draft law. But you didn't change anything and you didn't hear anyone. Nearly nothing has been accepted by the institutions. Already everyone in the market has accepted that SYRIZA's first development law is empty and materialistic. The main conclusion, however, of those who have sat and studied this bill, is that this law was made to serve two main reasons. On the one hand, pay Mrs Katseli's previous development law and, on the other, strengthen your communication account for left-hand success. One thing you are most interested in, and that is not how growth will come, but how you will convince the citizens, so that SYRIZA's beautiful parentheses are not closed yet! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The Minister said himself to the committees: "The aim of the government is to share a fair share of the new wealth that will be created." This law, however, does not concern the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises, as it excludes by definition 85% of those who have books in category B. But you said you were talking about it. Where's the isotope and the isophilia here? How do you document fair distribution and the social person? You promised, this law would be a bridge between the old and the new, so that the social fabric would not break. Finally this law creates an unprecedented void of large scales, but also unknown effects on the market, as it excludes a number of investors who made the mistake and acted in 2015, not waiting for Mr Stathakis to keep the timelines, which he puts on his own, it extends them on his own. You have stepped up the framework of the law in unlikely ways, with an obvious and exclusive aim of excluding as many beneficiaries as possible. For example, you are asking for profitability within the last seven years, that is, within the crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. Unfortunately, there are many examples that a Member of Parliament has is not enough to do. Ladies and gentlemen, the average taxation in our lenders' countries is 20%. In the competitive markets of our neighbouring countries, the average of the tax rate falls to 10%. Today's law promises that the tax in Greece will be stable at 29%. Whatever investor asks what he looks at before he does, whether he will invest, yes or no, in a country, he will tell you that he is looking at the level of taxes. Who will come to invest, when there is not a single mention of a future, possibly, attempt to reduce taxes on entrepreneurship? All investors waited for a number and we tell them here today: 29% for a start and look for the rest. The unreliability of the government has led the country to deliver its legislative power, its banking system, ownership, islands, its agricultural production, its tourism product.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u153	Come on, Mr. Saridis, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u154	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, with the establishment of the "Soibble Supermaterial" he delivered for sale the entire public property, trespassing the Constitution, in which the legislature made it clear that the purpose of the management of public property is to ensure the well-being and peace for citizens and to ensure the continuation of the nation and the preparation of the country. Nowhere does it say that the public property must be used for the payment of interest and loans, of which the Greek taxpayer has not seen a single euro. The "first time left" development law is substantiated. For certain, Minister, we are not going to walk with you, because we are not doing amateur politics. We want to be useful to our country. We don't step and we don't just get bored with her soil!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u155	Mr Ioannis Maniotis has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation. Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stathakis spoke of an attempt - supposedly an attempt - to become a normal country. Indeed, that is something we all want to be a normal country. Only Mr Stathakis and the SYRIZA - ANEL government have received a country with a primary surplus and hand over a country, which, after a negotiation, has an extra debt of 86 billion - so much the negotiation has cost - and also an additional need for investment of 100 billion more. Since the comparison measure was the first memorandum, I would remind you that in the first Memorandum of 2010, the PASOK Government received a deficit of 36 billion rather than a surplus that you received. Because criticism of development is a deeply politicised concept, I would like us to agree on what perspective we are criticising in this bill. We want a sustainable development that respects the environment, which is smart, based on the new technologies, cyclical, which uses, recycles and recycles raw materials, fair social, with a index of social solidarity, fair spatially, which reduces territorial inequalities, inclusive of young women or young people, and of course a growth that creates new jobs. Can this be done? The answer is yes, it may be. Does this law serve that purpose? I'm sorry to say it, but this law, despite the fact that it's one of the hundred things that the country needs to be found to get ahead of development, does not help in this direction. I want to make another thing clear, Minister. We must also agree on what public administration will serve growth, which I hope we all want. Public administration in this country can no longer be a public administration that increasingly calls for civil servants. On the other hand, public administration and government can and should aim, in a public administration that produces jobs for the private sector, a public administration that has new productive activities in the private sector. I'm explaining. Is the way in which environmental licensing procedures, urban permits, monitoring of studies, as well as monitoring of public works and dozens of other public actions, are currently serving us? Apparently not. Is there ever a chance of hiring the thirty thousand civil servants in need of the public? Obviously not. Consequently, the State, the Ministry of Development, can play a very important role in this direction, can and must be the guarantor of transparency, efficiency, the existence of competition in registries of certified individuals serving the public interest and in the event of misappropriations. Such a state, a state - headquarters can be imagined by all of us. Because, Minister, I know that you are quite reader, I will devote you for tonight - I have homework for you - an article that was published by accident today at the SOCIAL EUROPE - I am sure you know it - for the twenty-four plus progressive reforms for a new productive model in Greece. I'm presenting it for the Minutes, and I'd ask that a copy be given to the Minister. [[At this point Mr Ioannis Maniatis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] What's in there? There is something very practical to be done. I say this in order to understand that we as a Democratic Reconciliation do not opposition as SYRIZA used to do. We are oppositioning very specific proposals. In the areas you will see, such as energy, environment, spatial planning, public works, new economy, networks, support for the new generation, you will find very specific proposals. All of us, then, who are soldiers in the case of progress, in the social democracy case, in a case of the central left, the renewable left, all of us who believe that the country should be governed by a social democratic party which has a very strong presence in the political scene of the country, are making very specific proposals. I want to ask you a question, Minister. Currently in Greece the construction market is nonexistent. I guess we agree on that. Is there a way to mobilise the building? We say yes. With money? Oh, no. With tax incentives? Yeah. I'm explaining. IOBE - and we have tabled this proposal as a Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Integration - says that if tax exemptions are granted for investments of up to EUR 10 000 in the home of fifty thousand Greek families, which may invest fifty thousand Greek families for an energy upgrade of their home, then the loss of public revenue will be 80 million euros, but from the issue of invoices in order to obtain these tax exemptions, we will have 23% VAT -24% - and the tax on which the invoice is issued, a total of 290 million. A positive balance of 200 million from a non-existent market, colleagues and colleagues, without a single single euro for the state budget. Look at it. Because before a dictator you're voiced, three... and the government won't let us sanctify, the Prime Minister and the government have announced that three ministries will help the Prime Minister make a great feast of government propaganda. Where? The Acropolis Museum. This is a scandal for the cultural events of all European capitals. No governor of a country was campaigning or I don't know what else, but government propaganda in the main museum in the country. What will the Prime Minister present? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end, Mr President, in a moment. Obviously not in the ninety-nine years of the "peripheral" dive of public wealth. Obviously not the 480 million just of the development law until 2022. Evidently not the expansion of the EMCDDA until 2031. Obviously - I hope, to go to the Ministry of Energy - not the LAP, which SYRIZA fought rabies. Obviously - I hope - not the so-called pride that they are making a 15% reduction in PPC's invoice, when PPC due to cheap oil won 480 million in 2015. You were due to make the reduction, this discount from 1-1-16. The only excuse I give is that I sympathize with the third Minister, Mr Spirtzi. His tears for the fourteen first airports, the Greek airport and the other twenty three that come on their way, I think they justify such a picture! I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying a phrase about my place. You've put Burji in special intervention areas. Bourgie, as you know, is uninhabited. You've got the Tall and Platea. They're small islands uninhabited. I don't understand the tax, investment attractiveness. I'm telling you specifically. You have correctly put three mountain villages: Alea, Axladokambos, Lykyria. The same criteria can be introduced by the Darkness, Saint Nikolaus, the Lakes, the Promum, the Arahnai, the twins, the Eliokastro. Why? Does that make any sense? Because it would be useful until tomorrow, Minister, and Mr in general, to know that you are working in this direction, what we are saying to you, namely to ask your services of mountain villages that have set the same criteria, to identify - because that is obviously the case in all the counties - and other villages with the same characteristics, so that there is no internal emphasis on each county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u158	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u159	Let me make this clear, because I am surprised by Mr Maniotis in his position. The development law follows Europe's regional map. As an exception to Europe's regional map, we have set four criteria that are compatible and these criteria are. Mountainity, insularity under a number, the criterion of large demographic decline -30% and above - and the criterion of the border region, of cross-borderity. If you want this to happen at municipal level, we cover 40% of the local municipalities, which have one of these criteria and 20% of the population. From that point on, you're asking us to make an arbitrary classification without telling us the criterion. Tell us a criterion so we can do our job. However, the criterion must be universal, as we have used the four universal criteria, for our debate to become a reality, otherwise the debate does not make sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I would like to reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u161	Rhetoric is the question. We're not having a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u162	No, it's not rhetoric. Minister, these are two criteria, the altitude and the reduction of population. As you do for the rest, do exactly the same for the other villages. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u163	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, once again the government did not originalise and opt for the easy opponent, namely the New Democracy, the PASOK and the other opposition parties, because it certainly has an easy criticism from these parties. Easily criticism focuses on giving more and more privileges, increasing immunity to the action of big capital, i.e. new privileges, greater tax immunity, greater tax exemptions. Besides, they're easy opponents, because their things the previous time they were in the government bore. No, of course, that you are not galaxies against big capital. For example, you abolished the same participation in the new investment projects and at the same time supported other methods, other methods and tools, business interests, investment projects. But despite the fact that we have also caused you in the committees, you are avoiding responding to our criticism. Of course, development law is nothing original. Always, not only through development law, the urban state was the guardian of the needs of the great capital, its supporter and supported in every way, with a number of tools and instruments, the needs of capital, the bourgeoisie, the monopolistic groups, forming a negative ground at the expense of the working class and the rest of the populace and for the benefit of the capital. But let's see if and to what you're originalizing. We will concentrate our criticism on three main issues. The first issue is what you are talking about in relation to the new model, that extroverty must be governed, so that, in other words, these sectors that have an export orientation, that is, the development of sectors that can stand up to international capitalist competition, must be developed. That is what the big capital wants, in order to be able to shield its profitability, will not go to sectors that cannot compete with other business groups, multinationals or imports. In this respect, therefore, which branches will develop and who do not, you and the people's needs do not define, define the interests of capital, international capitalist competition. What's the result? To have a series of productive devastation. This is not today's phenomenon. Remind me of the textile, clothing and leather industry. When was this sector really destroyed? Not at the time of the capitalist crisis these years that we have been living for, but at the time of capitalist development. Of course, the crisis is destroying even greater productive powers. So the design you are planning is foreign to the satisfaction of people's needs, since you chose to support extroversion and export orientation. You'll tell me. But will a number of branches not develop that may also satisfy people's needs? We say no, because even such branches will grow, the people, the working class will pay expensively the goods of these sectors. Why would he pay them very expensive? For a number of examples this confirms. I remember from the 1980s, not the recent one, when I was studying abroad, the Greek yoghurt there had much cheaper than it had in Greece. In order to infiltrate Greek goods abroad, they reduce prices and this price reduction is paid by the Greek consumer, the Greek popular layers. Second element of this model is that it is precisely a model that is vulnerable to international competition, because today this sector may be competitive, but the circumstances change tomorrow, tomorrow, so any production activity will be thrown out very soon in the basket of unusable ones. Of course, these sectors are also developed today, for example, the sector of tourism that is particularly vulnerable to a series of not only outward changes, international changes, but also internal changes, just a great natural disaster, so that I do not go far. The second element you put to me is that. You say that you do not want to invest in low labour costs, you do not want a Bulgaria-type model, but you want to invest in high added value and innovation. What does that mean? It means, of course, that you are subjugating research, technology and its results, the needs, the interests of business groups. Of course research and technology is a productive force and it is not your discovery. Marx himself was first in the "Kefalios" that science, education, research and technology is a productive force. But the question is who? Who will use and for the benefit of whom will this new innovation and increase the productivity of work, which it entails? In this particular case, in the given production relationships defined by property relations, namely in the capitalist system, this increase in labour technology and productivity will ensure the profitability of business groups, will further shield their profits, because they will become more competitive. Secondly, the result will be the popular layers of paying much more expensive goods. The example of the medicine is typical of the primary and generics, which if we reason that research is a social development and a social process over the decades, it cannot result in the operator buying the patent or being enslaved with the research centre itself to "brand" much more. The third element of this process is that the concept of research is distorted, because it will only be developed in sectors that generate profits to business groups and the rest of the sectors will remain behind. So what will be the result of this process? The result of this procedure will be the basis, the increase in the degree of exploitation of the working class. Because the degree of exploitation is determined not by the nominal wage level but by the lanes between labour productivity and the nominal wage it receives. The more labour productivity increases, the greater part is divided, the capitalist is plunged to the detriment of the direct producer of wealth, the workers. It is what Marx called "the method of the relative increase in goodwill", which yields far more than the absolute increase in goodwill. The third element of this process that you call it innovation. Innovation as a result of increasing labour productivity, what does it mean? It means that it makes less and less necessary the labour force. So where does it drive? It leads to increased unemployment, job losses. Recently a large multinational in China, which moved on to automation, fired sixty-five thousand workers. This increase in productivity, therefore, does not only go to reducing working time and increasing pay, but is becoming even greater in unemployment. Of course, to be pragmatic, because here in Greece it is very small the part of primary research and technology, in essence these startups, is nothing but multinationals' annexes. They will be financed by the multinationals and the results will be fruitful by the multinationals, because that is exactly how it works, to give fascist parts, to pieces which are unconnected with each other, which is basically nothing left in the development of research and technology. Partially, they work a project without knowing what purpose, where it will be integrated and how this process will be exploited. So you are going to subsidise the annexes, the 'fascist' on the substance of the multinationals. So the growth model you say as a new is not new. That is what previous governments have said. Extrovert, technology and innovation. Therefore, the development model is not defined by you, namely the government - the government - but the interests of capital, the needs of capital and those interests and the needs of the individual government are adjusted to a small degree of flexibility. Besides, they keep the keys to the economy. Of course, it does not only define this, there is another factor that defines the development model. It is the European Union itself with its policy, which some diligently avoid criticising. For example, the shipyard business. The government is right to say 'I cannot include the yards, because they are excluded from European policies'. Non-assistance and non-financing of the yards and will be negotiated. But isn't that an insanity? When we have a country that is around the sea and shipping is a key factor, can it not develop the shipyard and ship repair zone? Of course, the shipowners are not interested, because they are doing their job, and they are doing their job very well. They go to China, Korea, Japan, and they build their new vamps. But here the workforce with high skills in this industry is being destroyed. It also has to do with the agri-food sector, in which you say it is not a strategy. Who? In enterprises, processing of agricultural products. That's what you're going to do. Not the primary sector as a primary sector. You say this, too - and quite rightly so - that you cannot do this because you have to negotiate with the European Union, because there are European regulations, there are quotas in a number of agricultural products that you cannot exceed, because Greece will pay a fine. So, as far as the processing companies are concerned, even this trick you are doing with the cooperatives is actually a propagandaist, when after the last law, not only are cooperatives anonymous companies, but these cooperatives may be industrialists, they may be large traders. So they have absolutely nothing with the cooperatives of the old, those who led to bankruptcy, the particular system that the farmers have involved. After all, the protection of the primary sector means a ban on imports of like products, the abolition of indiscipline quotas in the European Union, but above all it means that at such a cost, which you have shaped for the small and medium-sized farmers, it cannot go through. Only the increase in taxation to put on the basic, the necessary tools, pesticides and resources at 24%, you understand the banning level that leads to production costs. So he produces expensive, sells obsessed, takes them for a piece of bread, because he can't sell them. The third point I want to make is what you say 'fair growth'. More than a joke seems to be the logic of fair growth. What for? Because we're not in an experimental tube. But investment law and development are more globally related to the context that the current government has created, as well as the previous ones. What is the overall framework that has been established, this overall environment? It's an environment of violent assault on the working class. You have formed such mechanisms for the reproduction of a very cheap labour force by overturning labour relations, by demolition of all their collective labour, insurance and trade union rights. You said too, Minister, that the work will be in the next evaluation, and we see where it is directed by team redundancies and everything else. So you have formed a mechanism for the reproduction of a very cheap labour force, a consumable force for the interests of business groups. Secondly, you have formed a market-liberation environment by opening up the so-called closed professions, which leads both to taxation and the attack on professionals, the violent, mass displacement of the market in these layers, namely the liberals, traders, the self-employed, the very small family enterprises in favour of increasing the degree of market monopolies. By the particular law you say that you want to support small and medium-sized enterprises and that is oriented there, you exclude 90% of legal persons, that is, 90% of legal persons are under what the European Union characterises as small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece. All of these are excluded, all of these are certainly not going to benefit farmers either. There is privatisation and a number of other issues. Besides, the Prime Minister gave an example of "Poseidonia", it is revealing. What did he consider fair growth, extroversion and innovative? The development of shipping. That is what he said at Posidonia. What does it mean to develop shipping? In 1980, the Greek fleet employed 100 000 workers, and now employs thirteen thousand, even though the Greek fleet has been multiplying over the last forty years. It has multiplied, but the result is thirteen thousand workers under these conditions. Nor do they, of course, contribute to the state corps, because only 15 million gave 2015 from their taxation, only 15 million in the total amount of taxes that is an infinite percentage. Something similar is happening with tourism. Christos Katsotis also referred to tourism. Can the Greek go on a vacation? It's a luxury for the people's family to go on vacation. He does not have this right, this opportunity to enjoy all that has been built. Under what circumstances does the hotel employee, for example, or the others working in the tourism sector work? Under conditions of austerity on the substance, a working middle age. Tourism is always the example where the most innovative reactive labour relations are being implemented. The'residential' workers, the so-called apprenticeship. In tourism, the experiment and model was launched and extended to other sectors. So there will be no fair growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you're done. It's too late. You understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u166	The other parliamentarians have taken more than that. I'll take a minute or two to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u167	There's nothing coming out with this, but take it for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u168	I'll finish. I won't be too late. So it's funny even to discuss that you want to deal with concentration and growth. They'll concentrate more and more on the pyramid. They will take advantage of the great benefits of the development law that comes. After all, you also say that you want to address the issue of small business, which characterises Greek entrepreneurship and become larger and larger units for economies of scale, so you also make synergies and partnerships between small businesses so that they can become larger business groups. There is, of course, an imbalance between sectors and regions. It's a law of the capitalist system. Neither in the European Union nor in Greece nor anywhere will you be dealing with this with your development law. So basically - and I end with that, Mr President - two strategies conflict. The one strategy, with any variations, is the one that focuses on capitalist gain, which leads to the destruction of productive forces and first and foremost of the labour force, which gathers and increases and monopolies the market for the benefit of the few, accumulates the wealth produced in ever less hands, reproduces the imbalance, is characterized by the anarchy and the waste of resources and ultimately by the capitalist crises. The other strategy that conflicts is the one that focuses on human needs. The central design is done by scientific rather than speculative criteria, as is done in capitalism. It values all production capacities. Scientific and productivityal achievements go for the benefit of workers with a reduction in working time and an increase in earnings, but also in popular strata, because they have quality and cheaper products and, of course, through a development of mutually beneficial international cooperation and relations. However, this requires socialisation of the means of production, labour control and liberalisation from the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u169	This is to end, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u170	This model outweighs. In this we say that the people must be recruited, confronted with this policy and with its causes for a more general break and overthrow. Thank you very much, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u171	Mrs. Genias, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the new development law is being discussed in the House, a very different development law than the previous ones, which has little influence on the structure of the economy and has strengthened very specific and very few branches, while many have stayed out. Suffice it to say there was a very big gathering. Approximately 4% of the investment projects received 44% of the investment. This law clearly forms part of the wider strategy of the Government and SYRIZA for the development sector. By implementing the agreed programme, we are aiming in the best possible way to establish solid foundations for a sustainable economy. We aim, on the one hand, to the stability of the financial system and, on the other, to the stability of public finances. At the same time, we are promoting the necessary structural changes to ensure that the Greek economy is stabilised on a sustainable basis. I repeat, because this is the crucial point, that there should be growth and a sustainable economic environment. This new development law gives the Greek economy and entrepreneurship the opportunity to return to positive growth. It gives weight to the extroversion. Because growth must be extrovert. It must extend the range of export activities of the country, as we are lag behind in this area that is crucial for the balance and for the recovery of the Greek economy. It gives weight to the agri-food network, innovation, upgrading through large technological areas of the country's productive fabric and enrichment. At the same time, the traditional sectors in which Greece has in fact great advantages, such as tourism and shipping, are not overlooked. The new development law introduces new innovations. First innovation. It is aimed at production, innovation, small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises. Secondly, it over-simplifies bureaucratic procedures. In other words, it introduces as many automation as possible in order to make the process simple, transparent and particularly rapid and effective. The strategy of simplifying all the procedures for evaluation, licensing and operation of businesses is being pursued with courage in this law. A very flexible system is being promoted by which investors know that public administration will respond quickly to the process. Beyond traditionally, it introduces other financial instruments and finally for a separate category of investment for foreign and domestic major investments over 20 million euros, it introduces the innovation of the 12-year safe tax environment. It gives the incentive to opt for tax relief from simple funding. We therefore escape from a mere donation logic that prevailed in the past and enter into the use of more complex tools. These instruments will enable us to maximise the multiplier effects for the whole economy from the use of financial instruments. It introduces extended geographical criteria and long forgotten or in the sense of balanced regional development. This bill focuses on creating and developing partnerships. Our country suffers from the small size of its operations, most of which are about individual or family. We are therefore seeking to increase the size, the cooperative environment, through the support of the closters, the cooperatives, the social enterprises and the synergies. This will also help to better place Greek businesses in international competition and their extroversion. The development we want to achieve is underpinned by the dominant idea, which is also the primary for the Left. The idea of fair growth, a development, that is, which respects social welfare, will spread the positives of growth in a fair manner to the social groups of citizens. For development is not enough than the wishes of the previous governments, but a number of actions and we are implementing this, so the government did not see this out of the rest of the development environment, but in a direct connection with the additional financial instruments, such as the NSRF and the available funds from other ministries, for example the Ministry of Education. This is very important and I would like to stress this effort by the co-legislative ministries, which proves, if anything, that there is a programme, planning and will to implement our commitments in a way that is fully effective and essential. All of the previous years there has been fragmentation and clandestineness. Now there is an overall planning for development and financial instruments. We have escaped from logic, seen every financial instrument, whether this is the NSRF or the development law, cut off and cut off from the overall effort that is being made. The growth we want to achieve is not the one based on low wages and high tax rates. It is a development based on the development of the country's human resources and high added value activities. Our government is directly in favour of implementing a strategy that exploits the great advantage of the country, its human potential, that is, the fact that one in two Greeks is a graduate of a university, that it is a human potential of excellent quality, which is structured around the possibilities it has objectively. The most important of all, in my opinion, is the shift and emphasis on the entrepreneurship of young people, on the faith in the new generation, on our human potential. I am pleased that both in the previous law of the Ministry of Education on research and in the current one, particular attention is paid to the human factor, to our children, to children of incredible quality, who are highly qualified, young children who have led them to the inability of the previous governments to leave the country. The country becomes poor in scientific staff, with innovative ideas and technological knowledge. Greece is bleeding from the leave. That's what we wanted to change. We have made a commitment to eliminate this. Now we're doing this. They are these young people, who will support them to stay here and offer the development of technology, innovation, creation and therefore the development of the economy. They are our young people with their unparalleled scientific background, with the ideas and the work that we need to strengthen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is the agony of all of us for the future that we must finally decay and give solutions. It is time, then, to give support to those who need, time to provide them with sufficient funding and to offer them the necessary incentives, the right environment, and I am sure they will grow with them and our country will rise. Time for...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u173	And it's time to finish, Mrs. Genias.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u174	...inspiration, hope and vision. That is why I support both the principle and the articles of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too, for respecting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u177	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, it should be noted that we have just had an amendment to this bill. But what I hold in my hands is not an amendment, it is a bill whole! It's eighty-five pages. It has nothing to do with this bill. It's about the refugee. The explanatory statement, which I have just begun to read, is not a explanatory statement. It's a list of articles. When exactly do we expect this to be evaluated in the parliamentary procedure? This is a bill that has not been consulted, will not pass through normal procedures and is submitted at 23.30 p.m., without even the relevant Minister being here. Well, I think from the letter from our President, Mr. Mitsotakis, today, on the procedures of the House, you may have understood that he wants to start the very opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u179	Mrs. Asmakopoulou, Mr. Muzalas will be here tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u180	I have another point to say: I am surprised that the majority Members are not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Muzalas will be here tomorrow to ask for explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u183	Let us also call on the institutions tomorrow to put themselves on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Karasmanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, development. The word on the lips of all citizens, as it expresses the unique possibility and hope of finally escaping from the end of the most ill economic crisis facing the country, with social consequences that have literally kneeled our people. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Who doesn't want it? And the last Greek she expects, she supports hope for survival. So invigorating is the question: This development law, beyond its name, is what we would all expect? Is it as fragile as it takes to guarantee a painful but effective course towards recovery and development? Does it provide the package of strong incentives needed to have what worldwide is considered to be a condition for economic growth, namely the attraction of investors and investment? The question is inviolable, and the answer: No. Why? Because the funds that this law has available for the period 2016-2022 reach the intransigent sum of 480 million and 27 million for tax exemptions and this coarse money without advances. In fact, in the first two years, which the steam engine should have started and loaded, that is, we should have an investment shock, we don't give a single euro. With this poverty of resources and, in fact, without advances, the opposite of what has happened so far, without liquidity, with capital controls still keeping the banks closed, what can the economy expect? Ladies and gentlemen, the investment is psychology. The investment requires a climate of confidence. Are there? The answer here is inviolable but also obvious. With this ruthless persecution of entrepreneurship and profit, with this tax regime, with these tax rates, who will invest here when in neighbouring countries know that they will find a tax regime, a tax haven, at a rate of 10%, at a zero rate of profits invested, but also with the exception of VAT, which we have been emphatically committed at 24 %? On these conditions who and why should he put his money here? That is why we have the phenomenon of uninterrupted business leaving to these neighbouring countries. Let me point out here that most of these businesses that are leaving, fleeing from prefectures and regions bordering these countries, from prefectures, which we as the New Democracy government in 2007, by unanimous decision of the Committee of the Regions and, above all, by a vote from all sides of the House, characterised as frontier and problematic as a whole. But you, the government, are now coming and you are abolishing this border and problematic as a whole. I suggested to you the day before yesterday to the co-legislative committees that Article 12(b) refers to the specific categories of aid. So if we say that until then you didn't know it, now you know it. You have no excuse, no pretext. So you're gonna make up for this injustice? Will you be late? Will you do what you now know is right and fair? For Pella, which I represent, I told you that in 2007 with Law 3536, Article 42, it was singled out and frontier-free, all of which was problematic, as the government at that time recognised its declining economic situation, acknowledged that it is a prefecture without infrastructure, without an industrial area, completely deindustrialised, the only county without vertical on the Ennaia Road and which, although it has an eighty-km borderline, has no exit to the north and the border. They added, moreover, that there is also a second self-evident injustice with the special aid areas, as from the list of areas with population decline there is Pella, while the 2001 and 2011 censuses testify to a reduction in population and, by that reason, the seats were reduced from five to four. But you also commit an additional injustice: you declassify municipal communities that have now been classified as mountainous and additional disadvantaged, such as Oma Lutrakios, Lykostoma, Promachos, Garefi, which is next to the border line, Sarakini and Kerifi in the Municipality of Almopia, as well as villages of the Municipality of Edessa, such as Island, Karydia, Kerasia, Vryta, Agras, Agia Fotini, Flamouria, Margarita, Sotira. In other words, instead of giving extra incentives, you're abolishing what's there. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a development law with non-destructive resources and completely inadequate for what it is supposed to serve. On the other hand, we have a government that leaves frozen in Brussels drawers totalling EUR 6 billion from the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020. This programme provides 370 million for the establishment and modernisation of two thousand new small and medium-sized enterprises and four and a half thousand rural tourism enterprises. We can support the processing of agricultural products with three hundred new businesses and a budget of EUR 254 million, creating three to five jobs per investment project. Also, 72m euros are available for the establishment of newly-born businesses, the so-called start ups. I mentioned the three measures from a total of sixteen measures, which we delivered in January, which we could create a great deal of growth in the Greek region and create new jobs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is even the Fisheries Programme with EUR 520 million, as for the first time we have managed to double the funds with the decisive contribution of Commissioner Maria Damanaki, funds with which investments in the fisheries sector and in the aquaculture sector can be created, as well as measures for the development of fisheries areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u186	Close, Mr. Comrade. You were clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u187	I'm closing, Mr. President. I'm hanging up. Ladies and gentlemen, this would really be a big, decisive step towards growth and recovery. However, we are faced with the peculiar paradox of a government that brings here an euphemism of development law with resources that are negligible, if not debatable and tragically inadequate. However, you leave the unnecessarily high funds for the investment shock I have mentioned, which the country needs immediately. Why is he doing it? Will anyone solve this question? Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u189	What do you want, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u190	I would like to say something about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u191	In the morning, where Mr. Muzalas will come. He'll be here in the morning, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u192	Before Mr Muzala, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u193	In the morning, where Mr. Muzalas will be here, it will be the most appropriate time to intervene. Mrs. Olga Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin with the discussion on the draft development bill, I will tell you that today the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group sent a letter to the President of Parliament denouncing the government's distorted and unparliamentary practices.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u195	Mrs. Asmakopoulou said so, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Take time from your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u196	We have asked for recommendations to be made to the government. And it comes today at twelve rather than, as Mrs Asmakopoulou said, eighty-five pages. It's late, she's completely irrelevant to the bill we're talking about. Minister, the least you could do is not accept it. We expect you to withdraw it tomorrow morning and bring the parliamentary procedure along with the normal procedure. Finally, stop insulting parliamentarianism and democracy! With eighteen months' delay we are debating today the new development bill, a plan which unfortunately, with its failures and its omissions, further increases the insecurity and uncertainty of the business world. And as I said in committee, it is only a drop of water in a desert of recession. It seems ironic and contradictory today, after a year and a half of a failed policy, that the government should come and declare the beginning of development. In a Greece where the recession is increasing, we are reducing liquidity, we are squeezing investments, we are shrinking the public revenues of the funds and the state, in a Greece of closed banks and zero expectations with businesses and citizens who are overtaxed with no prospects for the future. The Prime Minister, tomorrow, at an event with an obvious communication goal, will try to convince us about the weaknesses. He will attempt to present a magical picture, far away, of course, from the grim reality, detached from the citizens' urgent needs, weak now, to hear the problems that day after day grow, weak and canceled by his own actions. It is so hard for the reality, ladies and gentlemen, of collapsing, that no more communication effort can hide it. Neither the business padlocks, nor the young thousands of unemployed on the list, nor the mid-class slaughter can be explained by anyone, nor by the Prime Minister, nor by the Development Minister, nor by imperfect efforts, such as the development bill. Because the truth is one: we have the most anti-reformist, the most anti-development government in post-population. How, then, will this government be able to bring growth under what conditions? on what conditions? Is this really a good or bad development, ladies and gentlemen? Are you satisfied with the price and benefit it gains to the Greek State? Are you aware that only the time spent at the expense of the public interest? What Minister of your Government, ultimately, should we believe? I fear that, for all these rhetoric questions, there are no answers but escapes. Because the reality is that you are not interested, ladies and gentlemen, in development. You don't believe her. Or you mean it, or we do. Our differences huge, because you only believe in state intervention, state control, state control, the State - master, who controls everything and everyone - in a model of bureaucratic, extreme interventionism and suffocating regulation. And, of course, this spirit goes through today's bill. So don't pretend to be something you don't really want. You're not going to convince anyone. Because growth means private initiative, competitiveness, extroversion, exploitation of public property, less state, more creativity and freedom. Words that only in their hearing are you abhorred. I therefore look forward to hearing the Prime Minister tomorrow how many of these magical and forbidden until first words are used. Because, now, he disguises himself with a reformer, celebrates the implementation of his own memorials, builds up the ninety-nine-year-old deprivation funds, speaks using our own term "fair growth". Truly, what justice can the Prime Minister speak about, when the middle-class breaks down and is poor? How fair will this supposed growth be that you dream of without the middle class? Let me give you a reply. It will be unequivocal, anaemic and limited to a minimum. This development is designed, unjust and ineffective for Greece and Greek development. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be clear from the outset. No bill alone can bring growth, even the best, which it is not. Development does not come with orders from above, is not ordered, is not imposed. Growth does not come with easy words and pleasant promises. With today's bill a great opportunity to bring in a new bold development plan, with emphasis on tax incentives, with access to financial instruments that would not distort competition and support entrepreneurship, with the encouragement of private investment. You did not, however, go forward with a different model of development law, which could have been designed to create a new national development model that the place needs. After all, we also have the paradox, the bill to be submitted to Parliament before the national development plan for the country's new production model is established. It is obvious, then, that you will not succeed, you will not succeed. You are struggling with ideological obsession and this obsession with ideologies is clearly seen in two points. The first is the attempt to introduce a class mark into investment. The bill divides them into large and small, rather than based on merital criteria. The second and particularly important point is that it essentially penalises investors in previous development laws. The Act is a vengeance on the investments that are part of the previous development and in this way eliminates the concept of State continuity. Indeed, what investor will bring his money to a country that is not trusted, that the state is changing from government to government, which does not guarantee his continuity and which operates in revenge, to criteria that are unprecedented. Ladies and gentlemen, development comes with rules that are respected by everyone, acceptable to the modern world, who respect the principles of the free market and the institutions. This is a rule of intransigence to attract investment. Development comes with reliable governments, who work for the common good and not for the new clientele networks, which you have been diligently building all this time, or for the classic good of those you believe to be with you. It comes with a relationship of trust between government, entrepreneurship and workers. And the valuable concept of trust is built with a great deal of effort. I am afraid, however, that neither your trouble nor your effort can be seen, certainly neither is credibility. You have lost it too early, to earn the name of the most unreliable government that has lost confidence both among the citizens and investors, of the government that drags Greece on the path of recession and extinction. The sooner, then, we change course, the better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u198	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, I would like to raise the question of tabling this late amendment. Under Rule 88 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, firstly, the amendments must be tabled by the relevant ministers - Mr Mussolas is not present, in order to support it, to introduce it into plenary - and secondly, they must relate to the subject of the proposal or draft law. Here we have eighty-five pages...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Amyras, what's the proposal? They've been said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u201	Just listen to this, so that the few colleagues we have left in the Chamber understand how to legislate. There is, for example, a provision in this amendment that says what will happen if a divorce decision is adopted between two people who lasted three years and where the custody of the children would go if one of them was legally resident or not in Greece. Is this an amendment to the development bill? Please, Mr President, I feel that the Bureau should not be acceptable. It should dismiss this statement as non-legislative or in any case as irregular in relation to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House and, in particular, Rule 88. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, will an extension be granted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u203	No, the last speaker is Mr. Carras. Mr Metatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have said many times in this Chamber that in order to return to the development of the Greek economy we must first believe in the private sector, believe in investment. And I was indeed pleased in the debate in the committee that a SYRIZA colleague said: "We cannot bring Martians to achieve growth. And that will only be done with the private economy." Logic, but new to you. It's a big step forward for SYRIZA, though without substance. It took seventeen months to understand, ladies and gentlemen, that development law is important. I hope you don't need any more months but to understand that the bill we're discussing today is a 'empty shirt'. This Opinion was drawn up in the light of the paper produced by the Section In the given situation of the protracted recession of the Greek economy, the substantial liquidity shortage of the banking system and the negative business climate, tax exemptions are not in practice an attractive type of aid. Tax exemptions in general are the best way of strengthening development initiatives, but they require a country in which the banking sector operates, demand a country that is low risk costs. As regards grants, the Minister said that the project today is based on sufficient resources. With the 480 million, however, provided for in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State for the period 2016-2022, we cannot hope that this bill will have an impact on the Greek economy. And from this amount last year, which we did not have the law, this year and year will actually be given zero to the Greek economy. So do not share other false promises, especially now that our country needs EUR 100 billion in the next few years to come out of the crisis. Therefore, the objective of attracting new investments is not achieved with this framework, unless you have other methods. I was now reading, just a minute before I went to Stepa, the late amendment. It provides for the operation of canisters by way of derogation from the legislation on hot spots. Perhaps this is the new development model we are discussing today. But let's see what happened in previous years. In 2012, 2013, 2014, in the context of the crisis, the Ministry of Development provided grants of EUR 1,2 billion which resulted in the Greek economy returning to growth in 2014. The bad news, however, is that by this law not only will you not bring new investments, but with the transitional provisions you are hitting those who have already dared and invested in the Greek economy. I heard the Minister say he received a mess to manage. The same can be said about us and we can go back to the era of Charilaos Trikoupi, but this is not a substantial political dialogue. It is a question of each government to say what it is actually doing for the Greek economy. I heard, for example, the Minister speaking about the problems that existed in the General Secretariat of Private Investment before 2012, about the corruption circuits discovered and went to justice. We, in the period 2012-2014, proceeded to concrete actions, thirteen specific actions, to enhance transparency, measures that have worked, such as the autonomous Inspection Department, which was responsible for controlling private investment auditors. We established externally certified bodies with a presidential decree, a procedure that the Council of State accepted, which allowed the process to be accelerated without interfering with the Ministry. This is a useful tool, Minister, the n.D.35/2014, that you could use in your own law as a tool instead of creating something new. I'm tabling this for the Minutes and for the facilitation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We proceeded with the renewal of the staff. We proceeded with informing investors only by the Investor Information Centre, so that there would be no contact between the auditor and the investor. We have created a secure file, a special secretariat, so that the files can be secure. We have stated that the administrators who participated in the audit body cannot be appointed as accounting officers. We have restored ratification by the House of major development projects. We moved all the old employees from the agency, and there was a renewal of the Private Investment Department. We created the National Register of Evaluators and periodically new stakeholders were invited to continue to renew the human potential of the evaluation of private investment. And we also confirmed the authenticity of the letters of guarantee. These are major steps to increase transparency. The question is what happens from there. It is also a question of what you are doing as a ministry, Minister, in the eighteen months' time for existing investments. Why you complain about the "time", but you do not tell us how many completions were made in 2015 and 2016, how many audits were set, how many audits were carried out, how many bail letters you returned. And you did not use the certified bodies to speed up the 'urban' problem, which was before, to increase. The issue, ladies and gentlemen, is whether development law is attractive to investors and that will be judged in practice. And the previous law, n.4146/2013, was judged in practice. In the first cycle of 2013, we had 40% increase of applications, in the second cycle of 2013 we had 57% increase of applications in the increased previous cycle. In the first cycle of 2014, we had 372% increase in applications. Overall we managed to integrate EUR 2.6 billion, with the agreement of the Ministry of Finance, with the agreement of the State General Accounting Office, so that the funds for these projects have been committed. Today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, is designed to have much smaller effects on the real economy. And above all it does not bring new ideas, but it merely copys the General Exemptive Regulation, it introduces specific schemes that existed before, such as tax exemptions, leasing, major projects, technology. These are not new ideas. But this bill does not give advances, it does not support the liquidity of the economy. It reduces the rates it grants investment, resulting in the effect of this bill being too little and too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u208	On the subject of the amendment I would like to make it clear that it will not be discussed in the framework of this draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u209	Well done, Minister! That's too good!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u210	We shall applaud that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u211	So you saw that the parliamentary dialogue is working. Mr. Carras, you have the floor. How long will it take, Mr. Carras?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u212	We'll see on the way, Mr. President. Well, I haven't even used a second today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u213	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u214	I therefore said that I was pleased to have the opportunity to stay in the development bill after this amendment has been withdrawn - a bill. Ladies and gentlemen, an evaluation of the past might be useful. We have seen that on the way we had tax-incentive laws, we also had laws providing subsidies - funding. We have reached a point, but these laws have not brought the expected result. What was the expected result? In the rapporteur's report on the draft law we are debating, in the 15th year 1998-2014, total investment through the development law was 32 billion. But what did the picture of the economy at the end of 2014 give us? It gave us 60 billion GDP reduction annually, about 120 billion reduction in savings, which means that savings are no longer a factor in the economy, cannot support a development effort, around 107 billion red and late loans, 87 billion private debts to public sector and a constantly growing public debt, which is expected to reach 320 billion on the end of the programme. So let's go see the development law in this contour of the economy. I am not going to mention the unemployment rates, I will only confine myself to the numbers that I have already given. Do we have a chance through a development bill to start up the economy? That should be the crucial question. I see something else along the way from the evidence, which is the same in the explanatory statement. What was the average investment cost per job with the previous development laws? They give us the amount of total investment EUR 976,000 and the average aid per job has reached EUR 323,000. A conclusion is reached automatically. The money allocated was huge. The sums allocated have been lost - I can say - because when we create an investment of almost EUR 1 million - and I talk about total investment - a job which, on average, is not maintained for more than three or five years, what is it, what is we doing? So let's see today what we can achieve or not succeed, because the previous developmentists, so-called investment laws show that it was a smuggling of public and private money. We are therefore coming to see a critical element, the unemployment that exists. A development law should help reduce unemployment. So I read again from the explanatory statement and the report of the General Accounting Office. It tells us that about 480 million is public participation, in addition to those in the previous two programmes, which, I see, most of them in the NRP. And I ask myself: will the economy begin with these funds which are going to be allocated to five years, with these 480 million? We hear that it is 3.6 billion the whole range of the new law. However, a conclusion is drawn that it is little money that will eventually be made available for new investments. A large part is about the completion of the past. This, however, creates a reflection on whether they will ultimately be productive, effective and what they will serve needs, while seeing that they do not have money for the future. But there are tax exemptions left, I hear. Tax exemptions which mean, in my view? That we should have the money to make the investment so that we can get the tax exemption. So let us accept that this is something important, something interesting. I was expecting to locate such a provision in this law. There were sometimes a few hints and buzzes. I was expecting to see other provisions, because it is not just the operation of the services to carry out the investment in terms of economics alone. We want authorisations for new companies. We need authorisations for activities. We need environmental studies. We need approval. In order to do a new activity in Greece we need approval from the district, from the decentralised administration, from the central government. How can these be ensured when the Greek experience tells us that, with the activities in question, no activity can start? And when? At a time like today, where no one dares to make available a minimum amount, even if it has been saved. No one dares to make it available today. We see, therefore, that this law, however high it may be, is unrealistic, in the sense that it cannot contribute substantially anything. There were very interesting views from colleagues earlier and in particular on the issue of the economic periphery of Greece. Things have been said about Bulgaria and other Balkan countries. The Minister replied: 'What do we want? Do we want to be Bulgaria?" I followed his speech. But I'll say something else. I'll make a parallel that might plunge. What's the parallel? I have here in front of me what Albania gives to attract foreign investment. Who is she? The tax rate is 15% on gross income. It is very low compared to the Greek tax rate. And it goes down when the investment is increased. The tax rate is not increasing. It's reduced as long as the investment is increased. So what Albania gives us as an example, should we think about it, and instead of increasing the tax rates, reduce them? You will allow me, Minister, to say this: tax exemptions are simply legislative. In a need the law can be changed very easily. We have seen frustrated and still trapped situations in the name of an unsolved economic or any other need. Therefore, tax exemptions, as given by a formal law, are not safe and will be potentially dissuasive. Because no one wants to put their money in a country that at any time appears with extra needs. We have been living this for the last eight years and more. Don't mention the previous decade 2000-2010, which began to increase the debt. So we think that the model you select will only contribute. I do not want to be of the opinion that the result will be negative, but it will be minimal. Why would it help reduce unemployment? You say that about twenty thousand jobs will be created in the next programme by the new development law. In a million five hundred and eighty thousand certain unemployed the twenty thousand jobs are dropping in the ocean. Well, it doesn't make any sense. I am, however, going on to make some comments. I have seen a provision that I see you accept, gentlemen of the government, as well. Repeat Law 69/1967, this legislation on foreign companies operating in Greece, without having any commercial or productive activity. This means that it could be a guide to both the current government and all the governors, because something has succeeded in having it today since 1967 and saying that we are expanding it, adding a number of jobs to get the authorisation in Greece. And we say that it will, in fact, also be possible for affiliated companies in the group, which are active in Greece. That tells us something. It tells us that Greece could be a country providing services and that would create a taxable income, even in multinational groups. However, we do not see this coming through with the new bill, because it makes the same mistake as the previous legislation. I give one example: a law was passed in 2004 that was supposed to address competition issues, that would make the Greek economy competitive. We were told then that 2005 is called the Year of Competitiveness, because it will produce results. However, at the end of 2005 this Competitiveness Year 2005 became five years of competitiveness and did not bring any effect and in 2010 it was forgotten, as you know. And today you are reintroducing provisions that will - I suppose - make the difference. Instead of a Competitiveness Council set up in 2004, you are currently setting up a Development Council and I see it luxurious, if you like. Its scientific committee is eleven, and the Committee of Social Partners and Public Administration has twenty members. Can a body operate with twenty-one members? The disagreements that will exist are given. There won't even be arbitration in there. At least we could find a way of arbitration to resolve the disputes. That doesn't exist either! So in terms of management - I would call it - or in terms of functionality, what will this Development Council do? It will not do anything, as the Competitiveness Council did, with the example I set out in 2004. However, I would like to talk about Greece's maliciousness in these matters, which always hides a suspect in line. 2012 or 2013 - I cannot be entirely precise at the moment - passed a provision in tax law and said that the reserves of public limited companies, which had remained tax-free for investments, were allowed to be distributed in the form of dividends only if they were taxed. Do you know what was the fate of this arrangement that lasted for six or four months? It was known when it was legislated. Do you know what the result was? They took all the money from the companies, which were meant for investments, they were all taken away, put in their pockets, paid a small dividend tax, and then the provision was abolished and the reserves did not have to be kept. Do you know what the fate of most of these companies is today? Whether they are inactive or bankrupt, and the funds, which were as reserves for investment, are likely to have been channelled abroad. But that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen of the government. We cannot say that the economy can operate with such objectives. So the development law - because I see that my speaking time is over, Mr President - does not offer us anything. He doesn't have the breath that could give the motive for the beginning, not for growth. I am giving two more examples: we should say that it could make a very little contribution, we should have had binding time to grant subsidies. That's impossible. We should have ensured how to assess, not just with the Accountants Register, where they are registered. Here is another question: One single evaluator can be a graduate of HEIs or TEIs, knowing Informatics very well. But can it have the technical knowledge, if we are talking about industrial or craft investment, and at the same time economic knowledge, so that it can assess whether the investment was actually made properly within the subordinated programme and the extent to which everyone is predicted or rushed to resolve the Ministry and will the time remain much back? Another point I would like to make is this: we are talking about a paradox, which relates to 0.5; up to a certain amount. That's right. Anti-performance ending. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, in thirty seconds I will be done. But we see that 20% of the evil goes to the public fund, goes to public investment. Can I call it a management exit? Is it too high? Should he stay with the evaluators, give an incentive? I would also like to point out that what I can say as a positive sign of the bill is that it makes an effort to complete the previous underinvestment in the earlier development laws. But there we do not see the possibility of doing so with the well-known seven years, which is given. The last thing I would like to mention, because he touched me, is on the subject of special aid areas. It doesn't matter. I'm just mentioning it to show the curiosity. In areas where special support is needed, the well-known Spetsopoulos also came in. If her big-family owners had to incorporate her into investment incentives, then I cannot make any other comment! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-14-S1-commons.u216	The meeting for today, Wednesday, 15 June 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work, continued discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: "Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country - Establishment of a Development Council and other provisions".
