ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to wish everyone a good month, a good summer, a creative and productive job. Although it is not planned this summer, at least for Members of Parliament and Parliament, because we will have many jobs and many legislations, but at least a few days in August we will rest. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Thursday, June 2, 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 918/30-5-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the treatment of topical and fisheries issues of Heraklion Prefecture. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 910/27-5-2016, the current question of the debts of the OSCE by MP II of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. 3. The Question No 914/27-5-2016 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the "creating of illegal kindergartens and boarding schools in Xanthi". 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the intentions of the Ministry to propose a legislative provision for sustainable settlement of late payments. 5. The No. 919/30-5-2016 topical question of the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights about the "criminisation" of farmers' struggles. 6. The question by No 922/30-5-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the delay in the payment of the one-off aid from the Social Welfare Fund.). 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reduction of widow's pensions, following the introduction of an age limit for them following the adoption of the last multiannual plan for insurance. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 921/30-5-2016 of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Ilias Kamaterou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the need for spatial planning. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 911/27-5-2016 by MP Kavala of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the integrated quartz protection system for producers of the Kavala Regional Unit. 3. The Question No 915/27-5-2016 by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on "the production of feta from imported milk". 4. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the control and justice of false diplomas in the public sector. 5. The Question No 920/30-5-2016 by Z' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the problems of crops from rainfall in Thessaly. 6. The Question No 894/23-5-2016 by Z' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr George Lambroulis to the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of students in public and private IEK. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 889/21-5-2016 by the Deputy Minister of Attica of New Democracy Mr Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the financing of the Foundation for the Children of Pammarstas. 8. The question by No. 861/13-5-2016 was raised by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the situation in the Congregation of Congregation of Congregation of Music. 9. The Question No 869/16-5-2016 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Health on the problems of the health structures of Kefalonia and Ithaca. 10. The timely question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Constantine Steerios to the Minister of Health about the need to prevent, treat and support the Volos cancer patients. 11. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. 12. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the protection of citizens from excessive bank charges. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about the institution of the breeder. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the restoration of the injustice of the last law on the single wage for the employees of the regions. 3. The 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft laws: 1. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan on European Union matters’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the Agricultural Approach to the European Union’; and 3. ‘Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Moldova on the Approximation of Moldova to the European Union’. I would like to inform you that the bills have been voted on by a majority in the Standing Committee and have been introduced for debate in Parliament under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these conventions. However, because four ministerial amendments have been tabled, Nos 459/7, 460/8, 461/9 and 462/10, I propose that Mr Nicholas Kouzis should first be placed at the beginning of the three conventions by the People's Association of Golden Dawn and Mr George Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece, who voted against the permanent committee and the Minister responsible, for five minutes. I then propose that the four ministerial amendments should be discussed together with the parliamentary representatives, the rapporteurs and the special speakers, the relevant ministers and those who register with each other on a proposal from the Bureau for five minutes. After the debate on the amendments with the positions of the competent ministers is concluded, the three conventions will be voted on separately. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. As we have said, Mr Kouzilos has the floor from Golden Dawn for five minutes to be placed, as his party disagrees with the principle of three conventions. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The specific sanctions that come to Parliament for a vote are moving within the framework of the so-called 'Eastern Partnership', the strengthening of the political association and economic integration of these former Soviet Republics with the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, if you are kind enough in this Chamber, there is little silence. Those who want to talk, let's get out of the Chamber. We're in a parliamentary procedure. Mr. Kouzilos speaks. I'll beg to be quiet. Thank you. Go on, Mr. Kouzele.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u5	For us the main question and reflection lies in whether Georgia, Moldova and Azerbaijan are related to Europe. In addition, there is also a political problem. The Caucasus region, surrounding Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia, is an important and crucial geopolitical axis for the United States of America. There are huge geopolitical interests merged in this area. The US and NATO consider Azerbaijan and Georgia to be important strategic allies, because through them and their region, which control but also Turkey, they are penetrating in a particular region, while at the same time Turkey is controlling gas and oil. For Moldova it should be noted that it has entered into bilateral relations with the pseudo-stater, with the occupied ones. So, what cooperation are we talking about? Which countries, which are Turkey's allies right now, are we talking about working together? They are also against Russia's interests, of course. The fixed position of the Golden Dawn is the geopolitical shift towards Russia. We want a Europe of nations and not a multinational Europe, a Europe which is drawn up in the new order of things. We are voting against sanctions cumulatively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Kouzilo. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor for his place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. The Memorandums of Cooperation between Azerbaijan, Moldova, Georgia and the Greek Government concern the most effective approach of these countries to the European Union. Of course, this is governed by the framework of the Eastern Partnership involving these states, as are Ukraine, Armenia and Belarus, and are part of the European Union's competition with capitalist Russia. It is a processed imperialist, strategic plan with two objectives: the first objective is the economic penetration of Euro-Union monopolies in areas with rich energy resources and wealthy sources, but also an important geostrategic position for the transport routes of these rich sources. The second objective is to strengthen the political influence and the position of the European Union in these countries, especially the northern countries, Germany, Sweden, Poland and the Baltic countries, thereby weakening the Russian influence and the position of Russian business groups as a whole. It is precisely the results of this strategic planning and the real role of the Eastern Partnership that we saw with the imperialist intervention of the European Union in Ukraine in the context of confrontation with Russia, as well as support for the climbing of reactionary forces in government power, even fascist forces, such as the extremist anti-communism and the persecution of the Ukrainian communists. In fact, a vehicle for the implementation of the Eastern Partnership is the so-called 'association agreements', which are accompanied by the promoted and comprehensive free-trade areas, which are lion-provided contracts, which are far-reaching for the people, with the main aim of limiting administrative, economic and other obstacles to the penetration of the European Union's monopolistic groups in these countries, while abolishing any protective or regulatory measures. It is precisely in this policy of the European Union that SYRIZA and coexist with these memoranda, proving its commitment to policies that serve its capital and interests. It is a challenge that co-government with these agreements assumes a role of strengthening the administrative capacity of the governments of those countries to integrate the acquis communautaire into the commercial and economic sector. In other words, it wants to convey the know-how that SYRIZA and its partners have on how to break labour rights in Greece and at the same time the expertise that the European Union imposes together with the urban governments in all its Member States, namely anti-Flemish barbarism. At the same time, these agreements also step on the strong interest of the domestic urban order in penetrating these countries, as is the case in the wider region of the south-eastern Mediterranean and the pursuits of the local pluralism to strengthen its position with the emergence of Greece in an energy hub. The same is true of arable oil, gas, roads and infrastructure. See, for example, the TAP pipeline. This is why the explanatory statement highlights the presence in these countries of Greek business groups. These are, therefore, agreements which are consistent, as the explanatory statement states, exclusively with the interests of monopolistic groups. However, for the people, both for the Greek and the people of these countries, these agreements are hostile and dangerous. That is why we are voting against it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. We're moving on to the Minister's place. Mr Amanatidis has the floor, who will be placed for contracts and at the same time will also speak of the amendment tabled in one of the three conventions. Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the respective committee for the ratification of the three Memorandums of Cooperation between the Hellenic Republic and Azerbaijan, Georgia and the Republic of Moldova, these conventions had the overwhelming positive vote by the parties participating in the respective committee. With regard to the two objections - one on Moldova - I wish to assure - and I told the committee that on our national issues, the Republic of Moldova has a positive attitude towards both FYROM and the Cyprus issue. I have defied this position in committee and I do so in plenary so that there are no misunderstandings. Ladies and gentlemen, these three countries, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Moldova are, as mentioned, partners of the European Union in the context of the European Neighbourhood Policy. The framework of their relations with the European Union is regulated by the 1999 Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. Why, then, are these agreements being made? It is so that there is a gradual approach and familiarity between the eastern partners and the institutions and policies of the European Union. How is that possible? By providing expertise, expertise and know-how, as we have as a Member State of the European Union. There is also cooperation in the preparation of educational programmes, skills, seminars, visits, joint studies and, of course, it is at the discretion of the parties to determine their meetings according to the needs that will arise, in order to avoid, often, the organisation of formal bureaucratic types of meetings. How is funding possible? These actions are financed by the financial instruments provided by the European Union in the context of policies relating to these States. Why, then, are these agreements interested in our country? Because, on the one hand, we are able to cooperate with these states, on the other hand, we emphasise our country's positive contribution to the promotion of the European Neighbourhood Policy and, on the other, because we believe that it contributes and promotes stability in the wider region, since, as a country with these memoranda, we have a useful tool in our relations with these countries through the establishment of confidence-building relationships, through the creation of potential for development and bilateral economic relations, including the development of trade and, in particular, of energy relations. So the ratification of this memorandum is a tangible demonstration of Greece's interest in the institutionalisation of the democratic institutions and in parallel with European policy in the fields of economic cooperation, energy and so on. We therefore recommend ratification by the House of the three memorandums of cooperation between these countries. As regards, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under a general number of 460 and a special number of 8, it essentially has two objectives. Firstly, it saves expenditure from the state budget, because it allows for the financing of the secondments and the needs of the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs only going abroad through European programmes and not to be charged with the state budget. So we save expenditure from the state budget and ensure the proper functioning of our authorities, the external agencies of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In other words, it is essentially a question of funding from the Public Investment Programme, but of resources from the European programmes. In order to do this, it is necessary to go through and accept this amendment. That is why we have tabled it. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that consensus on this amendment should be overwhelming by all parties. I therefore recommend and accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. He also spoke about the amendment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We now come to the ministers to support their amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u12	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, there is a point of order. I would ask you very much, since we are following this sui generis procedure - with the consent of all of us of course - to be added to the Bureau's thinking and I would like the floor for that. You are doing well to separate the two procedures and we have won the last four, five weeks, when ministerial amendments are coming - which, unfortunately, has become the norm, in the past it has been strictly excluded - and we have entered into one of the concepts of interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and is opening a list. In the economy of the business, the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative have spoken, but it has been conquered - I think you or Mr Kaklamanis - I do not remember that there should also be a list of speakers, which is to be done today. In view of the latest experience, which has upset the country, I would ask you, Mr President, to look carefully and respect at Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure. The draft laws, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as he has organised our work, shall be voted on in principle, in accordance with Article and in whole. Article 104 imposes, when ministerial or parliamentary amendments are coming that are accepted or technical improvements at the last minute - governments through technical improvements are legislating too many times and many-page technical improvements are coming - to vote on the draft law as a whole one day later. Why is that so? This is to see in the meantime whether any legislative improvements, the adoption of amendments at the last minute, have caused some confusion in the text and some mistake has happened. It has been observed in a draft law by Mr Kourublis, a few months ago, that a provision which had not been tabled should be added to the end. And since Parliament is called upon to vote the whole thing immediately after the vote on the articles, you can't see it. So the country is upset with the history of offshore. We have, for example, seen the problem of the provision before we voted, because the provisions on 'outside' would have voted on them. Parts that were wrongly troubled because a hidden provision within a general good part of the draft law was passed, now they come out to the media and make self-criticism. We could also be in this position if we were not more careful. If there was a vote on the whole the next day, there was room to see the mistake. I ask you to apply Article 104. Because of the incorporation of the amendments which came forward, and now in the morning we have seen them and within them there has been the one that has been tormenting the country for three days - it is the last moment - we are insisting that you leave the vote on the whole tomorrow, Mr President, or another day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u14	We'll see it when it's time. Mr Metatakis has put it this way too. He told me before. When the time comes, we'll talk about it. Let us move on so that we do not interrupt the debate. Mr Phillips has the floor because in the second ratification with Azerbaijan there is an amendment from the Ministry of Education. Mr. Philly, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment we have tabled concerns educational staff issues. In particular, it is a temporary provision for the school year 2016-2017 concerning the recruitment process of secondary and secondary education assistants, as well as of assistants of training staff and special assistant staff. We want this procedure to be in line with the requirements of the Constitution and the relevant case-law of the Council of State. You will know that so many years after the Revision of the Constitution, the administration has still not implemented the constitutional provision and commitment that the recruitment of alternates should take place under the supervision of the AACC. They're being supervised by the Ministry's services. This has a number of essential and not formal consequences, I would say. We are taking a step today and we say that in the recruitment of alternates this year, which will take place with the status we have announced last year, with the usual ministerial decision, finally the objections to the tables will be judged by the AACC rather than by the Ministry's services. I repeat, it is essential to comply with the case-law of the Council of State and the constitutional provision. Secondly, you would say that this is a completely legislative improvement. It concerns students and graduates of school units affected by the earthquake of November 17, 2015. We have voted for a special arrangement. There was no word 'graduate' and for reasons of equality, as you all understand, we say'students, apprentices and graduates'. That is the specific amendment. On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, as the relevant Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, in cooperation with the Special Secretariat for Sectoral Programmes, for the first time since 2011, the IKY, the State Scholarship Foundation, has been proclaiming internal grants for doctoral research, in response to the need to halt the outflow of new scientists from our country. The IKY has set up a grant programme for a total of two hundred and eleven posts in three scientific areas. We would like to say that it is a first step, as Mrs Anagnostopoulou said, of what will soon be done so that we can keep and bring back to our country the high potential of young scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u16	Thanks to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Friends. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and four teachers attendants from the 11th and 19th Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now there is the floor for the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Vitsats, to develop the amendment to the second Convention. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. On 1 February the Commission decided to initiate proceedings under Article 93(2) of the EEC Treaty under Article 93(2) of the EEC Treaty. Date of birth: 4761/2016 on ‘Regulatory of Armed Forces Transfer, Personnel Care and Other Provisions’. Article 24 of this law provides for an increase in the length of study at the Higher Military Schools of Staff from two to three years. If I remember correctly - and I think I remember very well - for the sake of upgrading these studies, all the wings of the House voted in favour of this article. Then, if you remember, we said that this process began with a ministerial decision. The General Staff suggested that this process should be initiated from 2015-2016. More specifically, those in the second year complete their school this year, but those in the first year would have one year, while the rest would have three years. Since the General Staff had provided for it in advance and had changed the regulatory framework for their programme of studies and institutions for three years, the proposal that they have made to us, and I would ask everyone to accept it, is that the three-year period should also apply to those who are in the first place this year. There is all the preparation, the General Staff Agreement. What we could not do is make this process by ministerial decision, because it would not have been legalized. That is why we put this amendment in order to ensure that there is a legislative guarantee for it to begin. I would ask you to vote, if possible, on all those who voted last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsa. For the next amendment, if I am not mistaken, Amendment No 462/10 will be spoken by Mr Papagelopoulos and Mr Paradise. Mr Papagelopoulos, Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, thank you very much, but I would ask you and the Members of this House to have a little longer time, because I would like to refer to an issue that has been dealt with by public opinion and by Members. And I think some misunderstandings should be lifted today. I therefore call for your tolerance, but also for Members of Parliament. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, in this Chamber, it is culminating in and ending the recital of hypocrisy and populism in recent days. The battle is culminating and ending between the saying of Gibels: "Summer, slander, slander, slander, something will remain" and the people's proverb: "Net sky lightning is not afraid." Fortunately, there was a costing behind the outset of Gabels only part of the counterpopulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u20	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr Loverdos, for the congratulations. Three days I hear the greatest lies. They must therefore be answered. Behind the people's proverb: "Save sky lights are not afraid" is the government's cost. However, a response must also be given to the misleading, populist and hypocritical question: 'Who is the Minister inspired by this amendment and what government ministers is he trying to cover?' Everyone knows, or should be aware, that no Minister was inspired by it and no Minister wants to cover it. The contested provision we are now having to amend is an international obligation of the country and the need to harmonise it with the establishment of GRECO and European standards. No Minister of Government needs to cover this amendment. I don't know anyone. If anyone knows, tell them not to make a political specula. On the other hand, I know too many people who do not belong to the government and are involved with offshore companies, but I do not make political specs. And I would like to ask another question in advance. It has been heard that some will be relieved for the days that the order has applied. No falseer! I call for any legal person, whether or not he has knowledge of criminal law, to take into account the following. There is no question of discharge for the time in force because, firstly, those who currently hold a non-resident company cannot benefit from this amendment. Secondly, and most importantly, it is well-known, but some of them remain silent - there is a criminal penalty, and indeed in a malicious form, provided for in the article on inaccurate or false declarations. This is Article 6 of Law 3213/2000, as replaced by Article 227 of Law 4281/2014 and as recently replaced by Article 177 of Law 4389/2016. That's foreplay. I will necessarily limit what I have written, but I will try to say what is really interesting and they will shed light on this matter. A seemingly draconian and generalist law is hardly ever effective. A law that exhausts its rigour in ambiguities and vagueness, in fact, is not intended to punish but to cover it. Efficient is clear and completely specific law. On the basis of this position, I begin by stating my conviction that the provision of the multi-brand plan for prohibiting the participation of political persons in the administration or share capital of companies based in a state non-cooperative tax with the Hellenic Republic was absolutely legally correct. The concept of non-tax cooperative states is an internationally fully accepted and fully defined legal concept. Each year a list of States that maintain a non-transparent tax environment is issued by the OECD, i.e. they do not exchange information with tax authorities from other States. At the end of each year, the Minister of Finance adopts a ministerial decision - I am going over it because of a lack of time - which fully guarantees the meaning of the provision that we have voted on. I just want to say that, in a series of ministerial decisions and circulars by the Ministry of Finance, both in the governments of PASOK and New Democracy, the application of the provision for offshore companies to the then OECD list had been supported in 2002. But that is what we are forgetting. There is a POL 1041/2003, the decision of the former Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Antonis Besa FEK II 1590/16-10-2005, there is Article 5(7) of Law 3099/2002, a provision on which Mr Kastanides was based in his public positions. It is worth noting that the term ‘offshore companies’ was initially attributed to extraterritorial companies in Law 3213/2003 around anywhere. The Income Tax Code that used it was abolished in 2013. I could say a series of legislation, but I will offer nothing. They are simply confirming the government's position and demonstrating the impossibility of the attack that the government has taken on lately. I will only conclude that the non-disclosure of the term outside the company and the person involved, as there were no more specific definitions, is contrary to the principle of legality. This results in all accused persons being acquitted to court. In this case, because we had a strong challenge from international organisations and institutions, the government was forced to amend the legislation so that it would be compatible with the legal framework. There is the report by the group of States against the corruption of the Council of Europe that we are all aware of. Some indicative extracts are the following. I guess because they're known, to earn time, I'll say the most important ones. Here I will remind those who have impossible memory, in accordance with the agreement with the institutions in the summer of 2015, and in particular Article 3(c)(5) of Law 4336/2015, that the Government has undertaken to implement in full and in due time the recommendations of the anti-corruption states, GRECO. Some must have a memory problem, a problem of reading or a problem of perception of what they read. This, in my view - and I think there is no objection - makes it clear that it was an international obligation and we knew it. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has nothing to hide and no one to cover. On the contrary, those who have defended the ambiguity and impunity that has prevailed over many years are those who have been on lists, which have proved themselves to be in the management of black money, politicians who do not belong to the division of coexistence, publishers and others. Those who finally move the finger to the government for supposedly trying to cover and give political staff privileges are those who ultimately invest in not changing anything, as if they were all well - burned. They are the ones who have been defending the practice that has been systematically innocent ministers, MPs, party leaders for many years. This with the SYRIZA Government - ANEL has come to an end and will end with this amendment which we are forced to bring today. We would prefer a detailed parliamentary procedure to have been followed. After all, we did not want the law to come for the statement of assets in the bill. This, however, was the result of the overall negotiation and the delay that had been observed with the institutions and not with the government's responsibility. The text, however, was given to the Committee of Rule 3A of the House, the so-called 'underground' Commission, and all the changes which will still be made to the provision have been discussed, for which there has been so much hypocritical and populist noise. They also stated it - in honor of them - and officials of the Officer's Representation that it was known. How is it possible for some to claim they did not know? How do you say the arrangement came in secret between seven and a half thousand pages? How do you say you didn't know what you were voting for? It's an enormous hypocrisy. We must now come to a post that has come to define and change the political attitude of some. That law didn't come on a night to cover it up. The law that was passed in secret with the aim of abolishing all control powers was the previous law, Law No.4281/2014, which transferred the examination of statements from where you belong to the Parliament in order never to be controlled. There was no possibility of that being checked. And the authors of the previous law, I don't say they knew it, but they had to know it. Nevertheless, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government cannot accept any funny shadows and unfounded charges of allegedly covering, dealing with black money and avoidance cases. That's why we raise the glove, because it's a case that doesn't concern us, and I'll explain it below. We'll have to see in total what's changing. This is a law aimed at transparency and the fight against corruption. I will not repeat what I have said to Parliament's committees, when the law was passed, which everyone heard at the time and did not disagree, or a reading from which it appears to be accelerating the procedures, how they remain on the table, how we declare mobile lockers. We can talk about this in detail and in detail, but I am already over time. However, because I am an optimist and always see the glass half full and not half empty, I will thank those who have made public, because that is how these things have been heard and there will be more to be heard. The law on things that has been voted on, including the provision that we are about to amend today, clearly defines the institutional framework, the way in which it is controlled, the time and the speed of decongestion of the committee so that they can be controlled. The number of control by the committee of Parliament does not exceed eight hundred, so systematic monitoring is not possible. The remaining statements should be checked by the Authority’s valid Unit C on money laundering. We reconstituted the committees, added new members. We've given more objectivity. Electronic submission of the place you had. All these anti-corruption steps that have been taken by this law are silenced. And we're standing at what? We're standing on a front page of a newspaper. You know, gentlemen, opposition to headlines can't be done. It is the second time that it has been proved here in Parliament that the attitude of some determines the headlines. Let the headlines do the newspapers and the "First Issue" to do his job, he knows very well to do it, but we can do ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u22	"HAY" you mean? Is "HUY" offside?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u23	It was the headline of "First Issue". That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u24	What did he say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u25	And I say that the 'First Issue' is doing its job as a newspaper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u26	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u27	Say "HAY" yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u28	A little quiet. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u29	So all the gaps found and no one dared to cover them, came and covered by the law of the SYRIZA - ANLE Government. So in the mud, and in the lies that have been evacuated lately, we will not retreat to return to the old regime of lawlessness and opacity, as some seek. On the contrary, we'll take a step further forward. We are going to introduce a universal ban on participation in the administration or capital of foreign-based companies for politically exposed persons. This adaptation, although the earlier provision, I repeat, was excellent and legally correct, is being put in order to restore the credibility of the political world to public opinion, without wanting to believe - some in this Chamber, following the headline, have acted unwisely. You saw the order. She's spotless. I don't need to go any further. Includes both adolescents, husbands, divorced spouses, whatever that may mean. I am not analyzing persons any more, they are clearly recorded. The ban on politically exposed persons referred to in paragraph 1 will be general and universal. Please and even, if you will, we are provoking - although it does not fit my self-sense to provoke - all those who appear as supposedly honourers of morality and transparency to vote in favour of this provision that we are bringing today and to comply with what is laid down. I have finished the legal analysis by limiting it as much as possible, but I will say a few thoughts. As I said at the outset, there was a recital of hypocrisy and populism. Progress, reforms and modernisation is inconsistent with populism and hypocrisy. But again, because I'm an optimistic man and I see the glass half full, I'll say the government gets won by this story. It turns out that it is the force that seeks transparency, the fight against corruption, is progressive, modernises and reforms bad texts in a social context, unlike others who like to consider themselves as modernists and reformists, but are subject to populism, considering that they can thus affect the moral advantage of the government. Gentlemen, don't be in vain. The moral advantage of the government is not easily affected. And you know why he doesn't get hurt? Because she's not just imprinted on her DNA. It's enclosed with her DNA. And this synapse with the DNA of the moral advantage is the one that caused the government to react instantly and bring this amendment. So dare, gentlemen, to vote for the new provision and see how many will appear to declare the offshores that have the potential of the law. I don't know how many people are from the government. Maybe it's nobody. But I'll be curious to see how many people out of government are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u32	Before we give the floor to Mr. Paraskevi in order to complete the position of the Ministers on the amendment, I have the honour to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty students and students and an educational attendant from the 9th Municipal School of Glyfada. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, it is true that the Minister takes precedence over this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u34	The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor on the same amendment, Mr Nikolaos Paradiseopoulos. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I have added the earlier provision and I support the new one. I added the previous one, because I considered it much better than the legal regime previously in force and which had the weaknesses and vagueness that Mr Papagelopoulos pointed out, which made it from an inappropriate to inapplicable. I support the new arrangement. I believe that it reflects a social demand, particularly at a time of crisis. I understand that it is very difficult, if you would like, morally, if not legally, for the politician who is contributing to the creation of a relentless, difficult tax himself to resort to tax regimes in other countries which are more favourable. That is why I believe that the new regulation is extremely critical. There has been no objection of anti-constitutionality. However, because the issue seems to be about economic freedom too, I would like to clarify that, in my view, there is no question. For economic freedom is not an unconditional right such as the rights referred to in Article 5(2), but of course it is limited in accordance with Article 5(1). Economic freedom is the individual right, which also has an selfish texture. We read it in a draft Constitutional Law in our country for the prerogative of 15 years with reference to foreign sources, Lanski, which characterises economic freedom as the only selfish right. Why? Because it is vulnerable to abuses, which can lead to inequality, and inequality destroys, damages both the state and society. And the most well-known - legally, if you like - an example of restricting economic freedom is the case of imposing on companies, if they have more than 50 employees, to hire someone from other categories of SMEs, etc. That is why I believe that the new regulation harmoniously forms part of the system that we have. With regard to the issue which has been paid attention to the fact that a shorter regulation as a more urgent one will lure all the other regulations which have provided for criminal offences, to say that this is a matter of conduct which inevitably falls under other criminal regulations - such as those on the obligation to declare, or such on tax evasion - which will remain active. And therefore, we are not going to have a noticeable problem from the interference of this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u36	Thank you Mr Paradise, Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u38	Before we move on, Mr. Papagelopoulos would like to add something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I would like to add a legislative improvement. In Amendment No 462/10 to the draft law entitled ‘Principle of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Greece on the Approximation of Agriculture in the European Union’, paragraph 5, amending Article 8 of Law 3213/2003, after the words ‘the political parties as above’, the word ‘and’ shall be deleted and a party shall be inserted after the word ‘the General Government’. Secondly, in paragraph 2 of Article 8 of Law 3213/2003, as amended by paragraph 5 above, the words ‘General Secretaries’ are replaced by ‘Coordinators’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. To be filed to be distributed to the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u41	Yes, Mr. President. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned legislative improvement, which is as follows:]] Change Page [[To enter page 46]] Change Page
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u42	Before we move on to the parties' rapporteurs and will of course open up a list of speakers, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Dendias, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor after the positions of the two Ministers. I have listened very carefully to Mr Paradoxopoulos and to a part of Mr Papagelopoulos' speech, because I was not in the Chamber. I would, however, like to ask them the simple and self-evident question: if the new regulation - which today in the form of a late amendment, in an irrelevant piece of legislation, following the total complaint against the government by the entire political world and the Mass Information Instruments, including the party body of SYRIZA "SYRIZA" - is today so brilliant, so clear, so constitutionally necessary, so legitimately applied, why wasn't that the government's original political will, when you tabled the draft law, which was passed in fact Article 178? What is the difference between the first paragraph of Article 178 and the preceding provision? The difference is as follows. Article 178 as it was passed - I note that the New Democracy voted against this article, like many other opposition parties - refers to companies which have genuine or registered headquarters in a non-cooperative state in the tax sector. However, the original arrangement in place before was mentioned not only in a non-cooperative State, but also in a State which had a favourable tax regime. The government, i.e.... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, please, just one more minute. We won't trouble this House. I'll explain at the end of my position why. The government has therefore attempted, in a wicked, hidden way, to introduce allegedly memorial arrangements concerning the 'possibly obsolete' and GRECO's suggestions, which restricts the possibility of stricter frameworks and does not extend it. This has been passed and published, which means that regardless of any current regulations, any illegal persons who have already achieved their exemption. In this respect, if this were the government target, the hidden government target, the Greek society is well aware that it has been achieved. The owner of the offshore company has already achieved the criminal impunity, regardless of what regulation Mr. Paraschopoulou introduces today and no matter what the National Representation will vote for. In the face of the general outcry, the government majority has now come to a standard arrangement: it introduces a provision that is as strict as it is at the same time unconstitutional, against European law and therefore completely inapplicable. Having achieved, in other words, its objective of defamation of those responsible, the government now represents the ruler of justice, the sword of law and retrospectively introduces a provision which is completely unconstitutional and completely inapplicable. These are toys, which in parliament no serious person can tolerate. When Kyriakos Mitsotakis did me the honour of nominate me as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, I did not expect the day I would have to come to the National Representation and on behalf of the New Democracy Party to tell you, Mr Ministers, that you are mocking the National Representation and mocking the Greek people, having achieved the hidden objective of introducing an unacceptable provision that amputates criminal offences. We in this foolishness, in Parliament's mocking, in a time of crisis we cannot participate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u44	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u45	Vote what you want freely.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u46	You can enter in the name of the amputation of those responsible now whatever provisions you want, whatever provisions you like. It leaves us completely indifferent. We firstly denounce the government, secondly, we denounce the government majority, which is absolved by those responsible and allegedly introduce stricter provisions and state directly that we cannot take part in this debate and retire.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I request the floor. They have already spoken with two ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I would like to speak. I asked him first. If we went to the rapporteurs, I'd wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u49	Yeah. Everything will be done on time. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I have raised my hand for an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u51	I'll tell you. Four parliamentary representatives have spoken, Mr Loverdos, Mr Dannelis, all of whom, as far as I can see, have spoken. It is customary to give the floor in the order they requested, if you have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, I have lifted my hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u53	Yeah, I saw you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u54	I request the floor in parliamentary order. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u55	I would like to say to you, 'Customs'. If we go in turn, the first one will talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u56	Yes, Mr. President, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Cassidy, listen. Either way, you'll talk second. Whether Mr Loverdos and the second you who have asked for the floor, or Mr Famelos, speak first, you will again speak second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u58	We always propose that the order of parliamentary representation be respected. That's right and right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u59	That's right, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, the amendment is being introduced into sanctions bills. If we were to follow the normal procedure, the rapporteurs should have preceded the sanctions that we are debating today. Because we are not doing this, but we are talking with parliamentary representatives, there is no order. If there were a series of rapporteurs, there would be a regular series of first, second, third party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u61	Good, Mr. Lykoudi. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that you are all here today in the process of ratification, because when the amendments are tabled, I have participated in all of them - it is your reasonable presence. Today you are here because the guilt for the setting you have voted is a burden on you all. That's why you're here today. And there's half the Ministerial Council here. You have a problem with what you've done! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You have created a wicked way, by putting in a provision that you are changing today, in a framework of "outside" that the National Representation intended to vote on. You hid a wicked arrangement in a set of settings that some would reasonably vote. We have identified it in the way our parliamentary group operates at the last minute. And while we were to vote on the 'outside' provisions, we did not vote on them, because we suspected this regulation from its wording. The concept of offshore and their definition or reference to the term was hidden. He was hiding! And since this has been revealed, his reasons began that you did well, one after another, say things that are not true, as you yourself have proved yourself today. First, it's prerequisite some said. He said so, Minister of Government, Mr. Kurublis. Mr. Kourublis knew that it was a prerequisite and gave an interview that was struggling the water. Secondly, it is a Community directive, a Union directive, which the country had to adopt and transpose into our law. Thirdly, it is GRECO's opinion and recommendation. What's GRECO? Union of anti-corruption States within the Council of Europe. It's not an instrument. And what does GRECO say? I've got her here on her suggestion. They imagine you've seen her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u63	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u64	Yeah, sure. You've seen her and studied her. You, unread, partner, don't laugh, because you voted. And be careful with your past.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u65	You watch what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u66	Here, then, ladies and gentlemen, needs were created after discussion and submission of a questionnaire. They were asked at a time limit 2014-2015 - this study is last summer - if the Greek law regulates and provides for what is offshore company and alpha and beta and gamma. According to the answers received from the Greek state, they wrote a suggestion. From nowhere, Mr President, it does not appear that they have told us that, for reasons of international order and the needs of the fight against corruption, if it is a government or state official, it has offshore companies. It's not like that. Because the lies of the first two days were much, before the government - which was emptied by its press body - bringing an amendment, tabled by Mrs Kalis, to the European Parliament - will we get a response from the European Commission - not with abstract questions, but with one question: Was it a prerequisite? Has the European Commission recommended it? So the liars are ashamed the next day. You are therefore abolishing a strict universal ban that has been implemented. Mr. Deputy Minister, it was implemented because he produced a political problem in 2012 and before he was appointed State Secretary, Mr. Bernikos resigned, in view of the current ban. On this basis and because of it, Mr. Deputy Minister. And then a party leader, Mr. Kammenos, did not incorporate in the candidate's roll-calls at the time, State Secretary and MP, because he had an offshore company. In the light of the provision, he did not let the man into the ballot. The universal ban is a universal ban, Minister. If he has issues where the state responsible finds a need for change, he does. It does not abolish it, allowing the opposite of what the earlier provision banned. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, we objected to the arrangement that you voted on, but your MPs came out... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask you, Mr President, to conclude this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u67	Soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u68	We have to finish. And the ministers spoke a lot. It's not just a matter. They have therefore come out and said that, if they knew it, they would not vote. I think that the Deputy Minister was embedded in I have included the Opposition and part of the Couple, of course, in the very bad way he began to speak. A political issue: Mr President, a provision, when it has problems and comes to the House, comes because someone brings it. There are no subjects in the National Delegation, for example "the SYRIZA". There are certain state officials, there are certain politicians, there are the Justice Minister and the Prime Minister. The responsibility lies with either one or all of them. There's Mr. Paradisepoulou and Mr. Tsipras. Mr Paradoxopoulos, who has not informed the government of what he is doing, is responsible for the government as a whole and has to take responsibility for it. And she is taking it indirectly, since she brings this amendment today, correcting her great and serious mistakes, which have been supported by everyone. However, we have an issue, ladies and gentlemen, of the Coupling. We want to insist on the absolute ban and not give forgiveness to anyone. You wouldn't accept your Minister having offshore. You wouldn't have accepted the minister of another party having offshore. Why, Mr President? Whether it is a country that is not taxly cooperative or a country that is taxly cooperative, someone has offshore to save taxation. When you break the Greek economy and the Greek citizen with taxes, can you tolerate your MP to have an offshore company to save the taxes? And let the state cooperate, with which the Minister of Finance believes we can make a move. For all of us it's a matter of principle. For all of us it's a matter of principle! Minister, then, if you are so repenting and take the political responsibility for not resigning, I would ask you to explain to me why in Article 8, which is amended, in case 5, you say:'within an exclusive period of five days from the publication of this law...', in this case and I repeat, Mr President, our morning demand that the Rules be applied and that we do not today vote on all these provisions, '... the persons referred to in paragraph 1...', in paragraph 1 of this law, which cannot have offshore again, '...they must transfer the assets referred to in the provision'. Explain! And assets arising from its involvement in offshore. What are you looking at? Yes or no? If that's true, and those assets...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u69	Can we just quiet down and listen to the speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u70	He's asking questions, not talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u71	No, no. There's no conversation like that. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u72	If that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, whether or not we react, then, Mr President, it is clear that someone or someone wants to cover today. It is an apologies if it concerns offshore. Look, the cases, when this was revealed, the arrangement before, when the wicked, hidden arrangement was revealed, were two. Either they did a stupid thing, made a mistake, or someone's hiding. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Today that comes about, and it takes an answer immediately to the question I raised, if you give him the opportunity of the Member, Minister, in sixty days' time to transfer his shares, which he illegally held, because it was forbidden to hold them, then it is obvious, Mr President, that the cover has a dragon behind it, and there is a person. Instead of looking at it, the Minister must now explain why we will ask if the explanation is assembled with what I am saying to break this provision. Mr Paradoxopoulos must make an article 2 so that, if the vote is by name or if the vote is still simple, we can separate our position. Case 5 of the amended Article 8 is scandalous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u73	Good. Thank you. The Minister's gonna answer the time he's going to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u75	Oh, no. Now the parliamentarians are talking. Please. Not reported by name. He said something, we don't know where Mr. Loverdos was referring. We're not getting into these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u76	That's exactly what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u77	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u78	If he has anything to say, say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u79	He's responsible himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u80	Whatever he has to say, say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u82	Today, political fraud and the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict and so-called Anti-Population, of the New Democracy, have been clearly revealed. The Greek people saw them all very clearly evolving in front of their eyes. SYRIZA brought night a scandalous arrangement, hidden within the seven and a half thousand pages of the memorandum, to cover political deceit with offshore. She gets her back after the general outcry, but in practice she gets nothing, because those who have been saving them for decades in this way, the wealth they have saved is taxless. And to transfer these shares today and to cover the illegal acts they have done for years, the wealth they have bought, the black money they have earned are tax free. Of course, because the Minister of SYRIZA even speaks today about a moral advantage, I personally do not only care who has offshore when I see that the Minister who is signing this specific Eukleidis Tsakalotos amendment declares 866,000 euro bonds - deposits at BLACKROCK, JP MORGAN and other loan-growth institutions abroad, like the Minister of Stathakis and other Ministers of SYRIZA. You are bringing this amendment, which I repeat covers, and it is not fair, because the wealth gained by politicians with offshore is never going to be taxed, they have put it in the pocket, especially today when VAT comes up, which is being squeezed away by the Greek society, which, on the basis of the new tax which has been applied since today, will close thousands of businesses, and thousands of our fellow citizens will be brought to tolerance. Of course, we have a so-called Opposition, which has really been revealed today as the largest institution in political corruption. And how can it not be? When we talk about offshore, we all remember the infamous Papastavros, who is on the Lagard list, is on the Panama list, the right hand hand of former Prime Minister Samaras, who paid 3.3m euros fine and told the financial prosecutors that he forgot that there was this particular offshore company. Because here we are not generalising and we are not talking about unconstitutionalism and stories about savages, so that people do not understand what we are saying, there is also in the statement by the President of the New Democracy, Mitsotakis, EUR 9,800 shares in SAMSUNG. There are, in other words, political persons who have money in offshore companies and foreign companies and businesses. But don't be fooled because SYRIZA plays this communication paper. The 10 grand that Mitsotakis has at SAMSUNG are not even the laundry, telephones and videos he has taken from SIEMENS. If you are not political fraudsters - because you are the largest government's political fraudsters who have passed through the country - leave the amendments. Dare to abolish the extrajudicial compromise with the "SIEMENS", which robs the Greek State and loses the public 2 billion euros and which all the parties of the Parliament, except the Golden Dawn that resists corruption, have virtually legitimized, giving forgiveness to Stournara. You dare abolish the immunity of bankers and party officials for the sea loans to the banks, which New Democracy has brought with it. Then SYRIZA was "in the bars" and today he tolerates it. And not only does it tolerate it, but we'squeezed' - I say it popular - we arrested an ANE representative to make another amendment to broaden this immunity of bankers, last Sunday, to hide another scandal within the seven and a half thousand pages of the memorandum. Dare, since you say that you are not political fraudsters and you have a moral advantage - but you have absolutely nothing and you continue to be actors of corruption - you are abolished by an amendment tabled by the Golden Dawn, the Members' tax-free. Because the farmer, producer and freelance professional pays 420% more tax than the Member. You dare dismantle state funding in the parties. Golden Dawn has made a law proposal. Bring an amendment, vote for a law and abolish the immunity of Members. Remove the law on the liability of ministers. What offshore of the ministers? The ministers who commit crimes, felonies, which are criminal against the Greek people, have full immunity, based on the Venizelos law, who dares to abolish any government. Only a national government of the Golden Dawn will strike this abscess of political corruption. So today all the masks have fallen before the Greek people and the political corruption and fraud and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government have been revealed, which has legitimised at night offshore companies of ministers and political persons and which today, I repeat, does not tax the wealth that has been illegally acquired. It does not take the black money back through this process. The dirty role of the New Democracy is also revealed, which is really muddled up to the neck in the scandals, fraud and political corruption. Political corruption, which can eliminate and disappear from the country the only political force that tells truths, says names and reveals in here, in the man of political corruption, all these crimes at the expense of the Greek people, the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u83	We proceed in the order that they have asked for the floor. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Socrates Famelos, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the public debate which has been opened and because it is a government which has nothing to hide from its citizens, it has introduced an amendment which enables us also to institutionalise further of what is contained in the bill, the issue of 'from the outset' and the question of the participation of Members in foreign companies, of all political persons and of the other high officials of the state. I take the floor on a point of order. I asked him at the time of the withdrawal of the Officerial Reconciliation and I am only speaking on a point of order - because I believe that we will be given the opportunity to go into the substance of the amendment and to refer to it - because I wanted to ask the colleagues of the Officerial Reconciliation and of the other parties to honour the responsibility given to us by the Greek people and to represent the Greek citizens in a debate within Parliament on the political money and credibility of the political system. The departure of the New Democracy, in our view, means avoiding the debate on a matter of interest to the Greek society and which has been an important element of the crisis, of interlocutory and corruption, which brought Greece today into the situation in which we are, to try to get up, to re-establish its production, to re-establish its economy and to speak as an equal partner within Europe. We do not think it is a solution to leaving the debate. On the contrary, leaving for us means guilt, why does anyone have to hide something, if they do not want to talk about it, which is: 'Will they clean up the political system? Is there going to be credibility in Greece? Will we be able to stay in our place and talk to the Europeans and the other countries, with the head standing and the front clear?' Until now, the involvement of political actors and the involvement of political power in tax evasion lists, Panama papers and all other secretly but also obvious contracts do not provide a price for our country. I would like to ask you, Mr President, through the Bureau, even now, to call on the opposition to come to this debate, because since yesterday we have tabled this proposal for this debate to be held in the Greek Parliament. Because we have nothing to hide and we want to come and talk. I would like to address the request to the other parties' representatives. To bring us here, in the Greek Parliament, one, which may have been covered by the provisions of this government. Because by unleashing accusations that someone wanted to cover rather evidence that they have nothing specific to say about restoring the credibility of the Greek political potential. One case of coming here to Parliament, showing one that was covered by the regulation we made last week, and we are committed to discussing it. What no one dares to say is that we have so far had in mind protection. We did not have real protection, because there were political persons who had used a 'walk' with participation in European companies and had escaped control of 'whenever'. And they participated in European companies. So we come first to restore the lasson that we did last week, namely to agree and implement what the international fight against corruption has given us a proposal. We are coming today to extend the debate to everything that is of interest to the Greek people, not to involve political people in foreign companies. We call for the debate to be held on this. I would also like to address this to my colleague in the Democratic Alliance. Tell us here one covered. Because neither the previous provision had retroactive effect, and we have made it clear, so that we do not get involved with legal tertiary tertiary things, the provision that we have voted on does not cover anyone, but today also extends protection. There is no one who can take advantage of the interim between the provisions and on the basis of legal control which we have done. Mr President, I remain on a point of order. We must respect the parliamentary procedure, we must all respect the mandate of the Greek citizens. The debate will take place in Parliament, in front of the Greek citizens, not with wooden and fake titles in newspapers, which make propaganda of the worst kind, but within here. A reference should be made to one case, covered by the SYRIZA Government, a political person covered by an entrepreneur. Here we say: everyone equals the law, all honest. Greece will be honest from now on and ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u85	We proceed with the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. We in Rule 178 had voted against it in plenary at the time it was being discussed, because of course we had seen exactly what it was trying to include. From this point of view, all the voices that have been heard in recent times are more hypocritical. The New Democracy confirmed it today with its departure from the debate. As for PASOK, I don't see Mr. Koutsuko. Let PASOK ask Mr Koutsukouko what had happened to this article during the vote. Because they are now coming out 'the tiles'. We're not going to go into a number of bicolher games that are growing here because they're trying to hide the substance. What do you want to do with these bicoloral terrains of yours? Prove to the world that Caesar's wife wants to look honest, not that she is. That's what you're trying to do. Of course, you want to hide the substance. What's the point? The fact is that the civil servants of the bourgeoisie and our country - and not only in our country - form a more favourable field for the activities of the monopolistic groups, for the action of capital, to serve the interests of capitalism. That is his role, after all. At the same time as his attitude, position and policy, he takes a number of anti-popular measures, escalating the barbaric and anti-popular attack on the people. In other words, by its role as a political staff of the bourgeoisie, it is interconnected with capitalism and its interests. It is an interface, which is no coincidence that, in several cases, it reaches the complexion. And here we are asking, clearly, all the other representatives: can there be transparency and the 'black' of political money, for example, be tackled in the context of the liberalisation of capital? When this is the European Union's policy, can this be done? Do you have that kind of delusion? Can there be transparency in conditions of tax havens, not in offshore, in secular countries and in small islands, but in the European Union itself or in the United States of America, internally? Can there be transparency in circumstances of the existence of secrets, whether commercial, banking, tax secrets or anonymous, anonymous shares? From this point of view, you are just trying to hide the tree, while there is a whole forest, which cannot hide. We say clearly that no matter how many provisions you have, it is not the problem from now on, but what you have. And what you've got, in circumstances like the ones I described above, can't be revealed if you don't want it yourself. And from this point of view, what kind of transparency - we really wonder - can that be? Two individual issues, to conclude: Why are these provisions that you are bringing now, do you not include other financial products and say only about shares? So, mutual funds, foreign bonds, all of this is allowed? Can they put money there? Second question: What you put, that within 60 days is also the case for the offshore companies that they held - that is, that they should transfer - or only the shares to the 'legal' monopolistic business groups? Thirdly, Mr Ministers: in the rapporteur's report you say that these provisions include persons relating to local and regional administrations, such as mayors and regional authorities. The provisions of the article do not refer to them. Is it true to them that they're not allowed to have one? Because it's not mentioned. And from this point of view, to conclude, Mr President, we have no delusion that, in whatever order it comes, in conditions of capital domination, we can deal with the scepticism and corruption. Sepsis and corruption are a fundamental feature of capitalism and is found in the DNA of the capitalist system. Nevertheless, with all these reservations and concerns we have put forward, this amendment will be voted on as a JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. We shall now proceed to the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Karras. Mr Dannelis will then speak and then Mr Papachristopoulos will speak. That's the turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me a brief comment. Article 178, which was introduced last night, had a matter. It was unthinkable. At the time he was being discussed and voted, it was really uncomfortable, because his text was too thick and did not give answers whether he really protected not only transparency, but also the dignity of politicians. We have placed ourselves in 'the present' for these very reasons, because we have not been able to form an image. But in the next few hours, in the next few days, in the two days, with what was leaked, the saliva that created gave us the opportunity to explore the issues. So, by introducing differentiation between taxly non-cooperative and taxly privileged countries, what did it mean? It meant, now, that it allowed politicians - while we were talking in total and vaguely, if you like, about offshore companies - to retain participation and to exercise management over companies in countries with a favourable tax regime. Was that moral? Was it honest? It has a huge political dimension. And for what? The definition of tax concessions and what are laid down by the OECD decisions is that their tax arrangements, the rate of tax is less than 50% of the rate of Greek tax. It therefore allowed politicians to take the so-called 'avoidance' legal action. I am referring to this, and I consider it very important, because it allowed, I repeat, the tax avoidance of all other Greeks and, furthermore, during periods of very severe crisis, which we are currently experiencing and, at the same time, with the same law, a strict tax measure was taken and a distinction was introduced in favour of politicians. And I say this directly, Mr President. It was therefore neither moral nor honest, as much as we should say about the obligation of GRECO organisations and so on. No, Mr President, neither moral nor honest was this provision, just trying to imply or justify it or even to cover it. But today there is a worse provision than the one I have to comment on, Mr President, because we have a number of issues and I will put them to Mr Paradise, who is present. We have a number of issues to deal with. So a provision is coming back today, which in paragraph 1 tells us is forbidden for politicians to participate in any foreign company. Welcome. But until this provision is published in the GDR, since we have a precedent, which introduces the concept of a softer law on companies' participation in countries with a preferential tax regime, it is without any doubt a criminalty of what is revealed. And that is not good enough, Mr President. I'm red when I say that in the Chamber. It says below, as Mr Loverdos pointed out, that they have the right within an exclusive period to transfer the assets held, in breach of paragraph 1. It is now immunity, because the person who transfers by law is legally transferring and can no longer be accused, whatever violation he has done in the past, of any criminal order, and of the "before you" still. So, is the Minister, Mr Paradopoulos, asking this question? I consider you, as you know, to be the law of criminal law, Minister. Will you consider this provision which comes or is adopted the day before, that instant crimes are committed or committed, so that we give them abstention of sins pursuant to Article 2 of the Criminal Code, or will you have the daring, bravery - perhaps I should not use these expressions to you - to consider them as crimes of participation, to give them lasting character, so that we also have retrospective responsibility, not only to bring in provisions that forgive everything, but also to maintain criminal responsibility and the past, so that the political world can come out of this Chamber with high heads? I ask you directly this question and I look forward to your reply. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President, because I believe that this debate is one of the most important things that has been done in this Chamber. I move on to the next issue, for which I am not satisfied with the wording of today's provision. It goes without saying that they will have a foreign seat, either in person or with adjacent persons. The notion of a parent person is known and given and is a real issue. So the legislative proposal is trying to tell us that there is a strict regulation and that there is something else that I am not satisfied with. It says that they are considered by adolescents and spouses in dimensions, those who have concluded a cohabitation agreement and their first degree relatives. I ask, now: Today all the young people are leaving, they've studied, they've received postgraduate titles, they're continuing abroad, they're making careers, they may also have professional and corporate activity. If, then, we have a case of fellow politicians who have a bright child - and there are colleagues to whom this is happening - studying abroad, doing - and we have such cases in America in particular - is a businessman, will we say that this child must leave all activities? Oh, no. It's too much of what you're asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u89	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u90	Let go, Mr. Karayannis, we've been through this. I think that at this point the provision is too much. I will make one final comment, because I do not want to say any more. There is also the criminal aspect of the order, the infringement of the order. You know what he tells me, Mr. President? He tells me he'll be punished by prison at least two years old, but he'll have alleviating, Mr. Paraskevi. Whoever is punished, whoever runs in criminal proceedings will have some lightening. And the two years imprisonment, as you know better than me, will go to three months. Secondly, since it has alleviating effects, there will be no penalty. Because if they are recognized lightly either of the previous honesty or the known 84 of the Criminal Code, we will also erase the penalty. What am I going to suggest if we want to say we're going out like I said before, with a high head? A felony offense to be the offence for anyone who participates in companies, which may affect the political world. I do not know if it will eventually be possible to erase the issues that are born, but at least there should be a threat. Because, at least, if we have a felony violation, we will not have a risk of remissions of penalties in this case. And the other guy's going out with his head high, because he's going to say I wasn't punished, I was judged unpunished, because he wasn't thought to have proved anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u91	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u92	So I think, Mr President, that time, which is set in the Rules of Procedure for this debate, not only is not enough, but should continue in society as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Carras. State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Amanatidis, wants to make a legislative improvement. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u94	Legislative improvement is in the name, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of the title of the draft law, the words ‘and other provisions’ are added.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u95	Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Socrates Famelos, has only requested the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, the debate which also takes place on the questions of democracy which have entered my position, without speaking again on the substance of the matter, is 'committing' us to put a request for a roll-call vote, which the government had stated yesterday to the public. The SYRIZA Members therefore apply for a roll-call vote on the amendment under a general number 462 and a specific number 10.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u97	Good, thank you. Mr. Dannelly, before I give you the floor, the Minister will precede you, Mr. Paradoxopoulos. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. First there is a personal issue with these "what are you looking at?" I think that in democracy we have the right to look at whoever we want, as much as we want to talk, whenever we want to talk, of course, within the framework of the rules on the operation of a political area, such as that of it. I would suggest that Mr Loverdo should, however, try to pretend sometimes that he can speak with decency. Perhaps his parliamentary presence will win in such a case. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] With regard to the objections and objections which have been raised today, many of which are serious and worthy of speech, I would say first of all that as regards the position of the New Democracy, it arises...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u99	Could you listen to us too, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u100	I didn't hear, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u101	Did you bother listening to us other parliamentary representatives too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u102	Mr Dannelis says that, as you answer, you should listen to the other parliamentary representatives and take the floor to the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u103	I'm sure I'll answer everybody. But I start with a departure stop, which is distinct from the rest. I think that the withdrawal symbolically shows that it is indifferent to the fate of the newly introduced regulation and to whether or not we will in the end be left with the previous one. The former had a scheme, which was clearly more favourable for depositing money, funds abroad. The departure of the New Democracy means that it prefers the previous regulation from the present one, which does not want the politician and the rest of the people to have their money in foreign businesses and companies and, moreover, shows a complete indifference over what will happen from now on. Because, with the new regulation, which will take over all the acts, which will be carried out from now on, we have a new statute which I think is much more reflective of a social demand that the politician should have a more responsible and different economic attitude from the public. New Democracy does not want that. That's what she looks like when she left. It wants the old regime, which was not enough to exclude it from the political behaviour. In advance, I mentioned some arguments about economic freedom. I didn't hear any counterprojects. I have heard the position that there is an insult to economic freedom without a counter-protect. So I cannot come back, because the debate has not been enriched. What I mentioned earlier apply to economic freedom. To say about some of the objections that have been raised, which seem reasonable to me, for example, the objection for the sixty days. First of all, I'd like to introduce myself. When a regulation is general, general, if you wish, such as the introduction of regulation, it is possible - and I say it historically, I say it methodically - that certain peculiar cases cannot harmonize them in the general formula. This cannot happen, and if it happens, if it is discovered, as far as I am concerned, I will try to resolve, correct it. And if today is the case - a number of issues have been raised by Mr Karas - I think that these should be worthy of attention and correction. That's why our ancient ancestors, Mr. Carras, were diligent, because they said that a law will always have a flaw, because the legislator is not always acquainted to cover the whole range of cases. If we find out, we have to fix it. I believe that, in fact, this is a peculiarity. It is peculiar many times that there is a child, perhaps even a minor, who can have an activity abroad. Perhaps this should be taken care of in particular. As far as the sixty days are concerned, I would ask you to pay attention to the following: First of all, it makes sense that this arrangement should arise for those who are now, for the first time, going into criminal law and cannot, from one day to another, find a way to secure their property abroad. It makes sense that they have a period of time to be able to transfer their money. Of course, the space for the transfer of money will also work as a revelation. In other words, it will also help to prove the existence of the money. Of course, it is not reasonable that the sixty days should also be offered to those who are not currently in the criminal court, but they were before, because they had an offshore, which was taxly non-cooperative. You're right about that. I think we need to make a technical correction and get out of the range of pointlessness. Finally, with regard to these recesses, I have not had the honour of suggesting nor of being the spiritual father of this particular arrangement. I added it for the reasons I told you earlier because it clarifies certain definitions that make it applicable, which was not the case with the previous regime. In any case, my position, like all of us, is co-responsible with all those who sign or support a position here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u105	I'll give you the floor right away. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Pireaus Municipal School of Piraeus "Uruguay". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Loverdos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, first of all, what Mr Paradoxopoulos said at the end of the day, namely that he sees a matter for the sixty days for those who had illegally concealed their 'possibly', proves that our remark was absolutely correct. And I want to see how she respects her, see what we do. Otherwise, I ask him again to break this paragraph out of the text and to change an article so that we can vote against it. Because she is guilty and scandalous, as she has. And those who have complained about the problem should at least make their self-criticism. However, I have taken the floor for what the Minister has recommended to me, as far as my word and the way I address him is concerned. A minister who signed it, on the basis of this signature, fooled his colleagues, possibly the government and certainly the National Representation, such as the majority Members themselves, have said, a Minister who cheated this House and confessed it today by bringing an amendment - for which he is discussing that he can change - such a Minister with this political responsibility does not have the moral stature and the right to leave anyone, let alone me! He must be ashamed of what he does!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u107	Please be quiet in the Chamber! The Minister has the floor for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I would like to say that there will be a legislative improvement on the sixty-day issue, so that only those who are now subject to the criminal offence are involved. And besides, I would say that Mr. Loverdos confirmed that he can't even pretend to be able to speak to me with decency or even soberness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u109	You're inappropriate!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u110	We are too late for Mr. Dannelly. Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the Minister could have ten minutes' patience to listen to the other two parliamentary representatives and take one good word. Ladies and gentlemen, generalised hypocrisy and populism, which have characterised the public life of the country for many years, have brought the country into bankruptcy. Sadly, however, the continuation of this hypocrisy and populism are working extremely hard this time for those who are questioning it, for those who are fighting parliamentaryism. And obviously those who have major responsibilities for the country's bankruptcy are not entitled today to be honoraries of everything. As also, the government is not entitled to talk about ghellism. And if we accept that, perhaps because of time, there was a problem with the full integration of GRECO into Greek law - because it is not just this planned arrangement by GRECO, but it is a series of arrangements - that could be avoided if the government were to follow the rules of the law. If we were to legislate as we should, we would not get to them today. In any case, we want - if there is not a question of amnesty, and so there is no shadow in the Government's choices and practices in relation to the validity of this week's provisions that we voted on the other day - to ensure that there is no limitation, no ambiguity of yesterday's crimes. So that's not the issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not legislate in panic, because there is a public climate that does not, of course, honor parliamentarianism and intensify the chaos that exists between the political system, the political staff and society, characterised by confusion, suffering, anger and, of course, cannot again gain confidence in this political system. That is why we have to say that, in fact, there are issues with the previous regulations, that is, with the 2010 forecast. Why should we not forget that there are ninety-five structures - we have counted them - to combat corruption, and yet these ninety-five structures have failed to avoid the scandals that we have today in mind. I would remind you that the Tsohatzopoulou case was not arrested by some corruption control structure, but by 'possibly'. And, of course, we must not go from one end to the other, because today's regulation by the government, with the universal ban on the participation of political people in healthy economic life, also means the self-determination of the political system from real life, from the life of creation and of the economy. And, in order not to get to riot phenomena, where the son or daughter or brothers of a political person are not entitled abroad, in Britain, in America, to participate in a startup operation, because that is what we are going to legislate today, so I think we should see some things. And the first thing we see from the wording of the law is that in the proposal for an amendment to Article 8, Mr Minister, in the second part, which refers to Secretary-Generals of Decentralised Administration, Public Prosecutors and Judges and others, there is the following in the fifth - sixth series: 'The actual or statuteal seat in a State not cooperating in the tax sector or in a State having a preferential tax regime within the meaning of Article 65' and others. Why should this distinction not be made for the political persons referred to in paragraph 1? Why, in other words, the total prohibition on Article 1 not to follow the wording of prohibitions for other persons of public life referred to in Article 2 so that we do not get to something that is unconstitutional and something that does not have a long life and, of course, as a generalised prohibition, which is unrealistic beyond the unconstitutional, will create a number of other problems immediately? Because I spoke before about generalised hypocrisy and populism, we, Potami, have made a public proposal to all colleagues in all the parties and in the wings, to take initiatives that lead to the return of money that has been taken by political persons as deposits to foreign banks. It is time, to help this society, finally, to balance, to help the banking system out of this uncertainty, to take an initiative to return the money that has been left by political persons these five - six years of crisis to foreign banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. The last speaker from the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. I want to highlight today's reality. Eight parties have been elected in the parliament. One issue has come today, this amendment. It did not leave any other party and we saw the opposition officer alone - and no one else - leaving. He's judging, it's a public choice. And for this choice, the Party of Officers, which made so much noise, is judged. I would, however, like to go to the essence of today's event and to remind you that between 2007 and 2008 a certain politician, the illegal offshore of which had been gradually filed with 750,000 and 800,000, from a company of weapon systems at that time, was acquitted in court because there was legal ambiguity. We don't have to call names now. This legal ambiguity, because hypocrisy is left over in this Chamber, trying on page 1033 to correct the agreement that has been made - and it was voted by all parties outside the JRC and Golden Dawn - with a proposal from GRECO. What does he say exactly? He says, “The Government undertakes to implement the GRECO anti-corruption group in full and in good time.” This is for those who dispute that it is really a prerequisite. Secondly, I read - and I am not doing so very often - Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis' answer, which is an experienced colleague, who has participated in the Commission 'from now on': 'This provision was made by the troika, it was a prerequisite and I know very well, because there was a debate in the Commission 'from now on' in which I participated'. However, I would like to remind you of a few other things. First of all, I would like to say this because I keep hearing that something went to cover up the government, someone went to "fashion". It seems, first of all, from what I said he had to do with it and brought it. I would like to say this, however, because I hear from morning to night in channels and newspapers that the fact that he took FEC what was voted on means that he is trying to cover up some people. As far as I know, a politically intrigued or at least a senior executive of an organization does not exist at present. So in covering what invisible ones he agrees? I want to believe that he will answer for the man who will answer after the vote of today's law. As for the sixty days, the Minister's reply was satisfactory, and I believe that something will happen there. Because those who were old caravans really have no reason to have this 60-day favor. Finally, I do not want to abuse the time - not five minutes has he written the timer, Mr President - but I want to say this: I belong to those who reacted. Why, though? Not because the government's going to cover up someone. I am one of the Members who have the right to have a doctorate in Kolonaki and to make five parliamentary allowances. However, since the first day I entered, I believe that the Member must be full-time and full-time. I can hardly impose this view on her. The incompatibility that existed ten years ago, I will try to bring it back. And I can inform you that there are ears in all parties and in the New Democracy, because I want to be fair. So what do I say? The Congressman didn't get into this House to get rich. It is incomprehensible, for me, not only to have offshore, but even to have accounts with foreign banks, and I was impressed by Mr. Dannelly's position, because his Chief - more extreme than him - said: "I am of the opinion and I am not of the opinion that the current ones should not have any bills abroad." Can I say something? I agree with him. But what do I want to say? That's how I reacted. I am one of those who has reacted, not because the government is going to cover up anything, but because the institutional framework with regard to the behaviour of the MPs has taught us, such as the Plaster who had no house or Panaghi Papaliguras who died in a basement - and I could say another five hundred left - who do not enter the House to get rich. Why, between us, if we want to be honest, legally - not illegally - there are'magasies' here. It is the highest duty of the Member. It's a great honour the Greek citizen has made you. You've got to deal with something, and there's something you need to sacrifice. In that sense I criticized anyone else, because it never occurred to me that the government was going to cover up something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I have an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u116	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u117	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I address the last two speakers in particular. You're right, Mr. Danellis, that I didn't answer you. What seems to me to be basically upholding is correct. That is to say, it seems basically not fair for three days that a law has been in force for some to get rid of. We believe that these people will not be found. However, if we look at it even legally, as an abstract arrangement, it is not right to get rid of them and we still have to do some kind of amnesty or limitation or something else that can solve the problem. I think your thoughts are in the right direction. I think that no one wanted, with the effect of a provision for a few days, to have some exemptions, that is to say, the application of a more urgent arrangement that has been in place for a few days. I do not think it is anyone who has recommended or voted for the provision. I propose the following: The provision of the Criminal Code, which provides that even an interim criminal law, which has been in force, that is, between the time of the end of the act and the time of the sentence, is applied, if it is more urgent. It's a provision of the Criminal Code. It is a general principle of legislation. It's not a constitutional provision. The Constitution is the provision of Article 7, which provides that a new stricter law cannot have retroactive force. We can't get over this. However, what the legislator himself defines, by means of a new and special legislation, can be overcome. If the whole House thinks that we should not go to a more serious criminal regime for three days, I think that we are free to do so is self-sufficient without any constitutional problem. I shall present this to the Minister who has the initiative at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Carras, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u119	If you can, see it, to last. A lasting crime, not instant.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u120	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the process of putting the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the Members of Parliament in place. Members may be registered during the first two rapporteurs. I would ask you to register with an economy. We propose that the roll-call vote, tabled by SYRIZA, be made, if we respect the time, around 14.00 p.m. We'll see about that. It is simply a proposal from the Bureau. The first rapporteur is Mr Mustafa Mustafa from SYRIZA. We can start registering, but with enthusiasm, and the registration will be completed - Mr. Kalafatis is not here - with Mr. Kouzilos, who is a special speaker of the Golden Dawn. Mr Mustafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have witnessed the verification of the ancient term 'whether or not'. Despite the clarifications given, despite the explanations given, these days a savage helmet was raised to attempt to cover up, an attempt to secure privileges to political staff. He's a helmet who touched all of us. I think it was inevitable at this particular juncture to intervene on the part of the government. With this intervention, we are actually putting a general universal ban on the country's political people to participate in the administration or share capital of companies outside the country. I think it's a part of our political life, a milestone for the humanisation of our political life. With these considerations, we are voting for this amendment, as are the other three of the Ministers for Education, Foreign Affairs and Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u122	Thank you to Mr Mustafa and to the economy in time. As the rapporteur for the New Democracy is missing, Mr Kalafatis - as we all know, the New Democracy has left the debate - the special speaker of the Golden Dawn is Mr Kouzilos for five minutes. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna need less time. With regard to Amendment No 459 and a special 7 of the Ministry of Defence, we are voting 'yes'. We are voting against the amendment with a general number of 460 and a special 8 and the amendment with a general number of 461 and a special 9, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education respectively. Especially for the Ministry of Education, we want to stress that it is out of CAP and there was a lot of time to take the necessary steps to get all recruitment through CAP. Of course, we are voting in favour of Amendment No 462 and a special 10 for offshore companies, but it is enough to call a permanent crime to offshore and to avoid any ambiguity in their participation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Odysseus Constantinople. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Although the Minister responsible is not here, Mr Papagelopoulos would have heard the majority Members that Mr Papagelopoulos invoked the moral advantage of the government. Mr Papagelopoulos is not only a member of this government, and I do not know whether he invoked the moral advantage of the Karamanlis government, which was or is currently the government. Because these two governments have a lot in common, and probably DNA comes from Karamanlis time. The second thing the Minister said is that he spoke of hypocrisy recitals and, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Yiannis Diaras, the MP of SYRIZA, said he would not vote for this provision if he knew and asked you, Minister, who thought about it. Tell us. He was asked by the Member and asked the government majority to support who was the minister who brought this provision. Troika and all that is fairy tales. Tell us and answer your Member. What Minister brought this provision into this bill? In addition, Mr. Papagelopoulos said he didn't think he was from this government, but he could be from the previous one. Give names, Minister. Give names, otherwise it's the DNA of slander. Ladies and gentlemen, before I say a few things about the regulation that you brought up today, I would like to say that in 2012 SYRIZA requested the resignation of Mr Vernikos. And SYRIZA said in the communication that Law 3849/2020, which we voted on and changed, explicitly prohibited ministers and political persons from participating in foreign companies. So what you did not tell us today is that you set up a procedure to get the front page and bring it out today - you could not do so at the very beginning - a stricter provision. No, ladies and gentlemen! And because Mr Famelos said that the departure was guiltless, without right, I would like to remind him that it should be noted as guilty, because SYRIZA mainly as opposition was departing from proceedings on many issues. And I'll tell you, because you're talking about corruption, the provision we brought for triangular transactions and SYRIZA left to pass. And, secondly, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because you tell us this story all the time - and I am glad that Mr Kourakis is here - that you have nothing to hide, is the SYRIZA Government not bringing in a provision concerning Minister of State in his previous term to acquit him? You, Mr. Kourakis, did not vote as a member of the committee to go your colleague from SYRIZA for his "subjects" to justice and SYRIZA came to plenary and changed the result? You, Mr. Kourakis, voted for it. You have voted in the Committee on Immunities to a Member of Parliament to go to justice on matters relating to 'underlying', and here the majority of the SYRIZA - ANEL has changed this decision. And let's go to that. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Loverdus told you as Parliamentary spokesman that it is not enough that you were legalising in the first instance. Today you come with this provision, with paragraph 5, where, apart from legalisation, you allow them to transfer the assets within sixty days. I have heard you, Mr. Paradisepoulou, say you will be present. What are you doing here? Aren't you the minister responsible? Where is the Minister responsible, who has a long term mandate from the Karamanlis government to date, and knows all about it? Mr. Papagelopoulos did not come from virginity. These about moral advantage on a daily basis leave our debate and you know them much better. That is why you have come today to change the procedure, not from the front page of the newspaper "COURT OF ABOUT". There is also the front page of "AGE”. And today they feel that the headlines are vindicated, because you change the law as you smuggled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u126	But please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u127	Minister, we ask you to change paragraph 5 and, secondly, what you have said a long time ago and accepted it, that the three-day provision should not be beneficial to those who have these companies. I conclude by saying that in the general ban, Minister, we must also see cases which create a real problem. Here, ladies and gentlemen, ambiguousness is not just for ministers, who have outlawed companies, it is also for bankers, it is for managers, it is for managers. It's not just the ministers you want to memorize. It's a man's grid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u128	But you're closing, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u129	There are also cases, however, Minister, as we have told you before, which you must see, as some people who are not outside companies, are in foreign companies, which have legitimately said, stay for many years abroad and who can legally have these companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. You made a personal reference to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u131	You were ahead, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u132	And you did well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u133	That's for the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u134	The way he declared himself created impressions. I'm glad you said that for good, because I have nothing to do with myself, at least on what has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u135	We're totally in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u136	All right, we agree. We move on to Mr Lambroulis, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece. You have the floor for five minutes, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to Amendment 462, our Parliamentary spokesman has been well placed, highlighting hypocrisy and with today's amendment on an issue which is working under this system, which - I am sorry to say very much - will in no way control the billions and wealth that are moving through offshore from entrepreneurs, business groups, etc. In other words, by stealing the sweat of our people all these capitalists, capitalists, who are evacuating tax havens and not only through this way but also through a number of legislations. That is where the government's hypocrisy lies, not only of the present, but of the previous ones, on these issues of corruption, which, incidentally, did not come from heaven, but are inherent in the capitalist system itself. No matter what measures you are trying to push forward, take, in order to throw ashes in the eyes of the people, this complexion - or as you say it - will continue and perpetuate as long as this system exists, because it is - as we said - the birth of this system. As far as Amendment 459 is concerned, concerning the Ministry of National Defence, which proposes the start of a three-year course in the higher military schools of officials, although the relevant Minister for National Defence is not present, we believe that there are some issues in our view. Staff's in a hurry. As the explanatory statement says, "they are prepared" to start this three-year term of staff, when a few months ago, in 2016, the law was passed. Why wasn't that predicted to pass? Secondly, it is also unknown whether they will, for example, save one year's wages from all three schools, Navy, Air Force and Drought Army. Is the cost of subsistence at student schools in addition equal to wages or not? Because there will in fact be no financial benefit from the administration if they are paid. Or the schools will see to it that they are inexpensive, as was the case with the previous ones after the two years of study in the annual schools and thus also save wages. We must take into account the fact that first-year students in the application of the amendment will start taking a payroll a year later and, until now, after two years of school education, when they graduated from school, they were paid and remained in practical employment as robbers, officers, officers, and so forth, but without school expenses. It is also important to know officially whether today’s first-year rankings knew or not that they were going for three years. So because, on the basis of these questions, we are not convinced whether or not the administration is wrong, we will vote 'at present' in this amendment, adding a question, taking advantage of today's amendment. I do not yet see the Minister responsible, but I hope he will answer that question too, what will happen with the defence workers. These workers have been unpaid for a month and a half, and they have been in mobilisation, which they have decided, claiming for self-evident, that they should be paid for, and that the question of the continued operation of the defence systems, which can offer the defence industry in our country, is that they are afraid of the continual decommissioning of this operation, with possible prospects even being closed down. With regard to Amendment No 460 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on the payment of the costs of secondment, movement and payment of foreign service allowances - these three include, Minister, if I am not mistaken - we say that these allowances, like wages, should also be guaranteed by the state budget. This is where you open a story. You put these allowances as a whole into programmes, and we fear that you will pave the way for corresponding categories of workers in the wider public sector to become the same, that is to say, to introduce any allowances to financial programmes. To note that experience says that these allowances are not paid on time to those who deserve them. That is why we will be voting against this amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. As far as the Education Ministry's amendment is concerned, we would agree with the second provision concerning pupils. However, we have an objection to the first provision, which attempts to deal with an existing problem, without a solution being found to the issues of assistants, the vacancies in schools in our country. That is why we will be voting 'at present' in this amendment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, there is one problem. Dear Minister, will you fix this? Did you get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u139	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u140	First you sign as the State Secretary for Finance and secondly you do not have a legislative initiative. Let Mr. Flambury sign who sits next to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Lovedro. Mr. President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u142	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u143	With regard to what the spokesman of the JRC said, I would like to say that this provision has nothing to do with not being covered by the public budget. It simply gives the possibility, and if they are from there, to use them too. That's all, there's nothing else. I mean, it's not that they won't be covered or there's some sort of feasibility to lose or anything. That's why I'm just making a clarification to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Undersecretary, Mr. Lambroulis wants to say something. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, as far as what we have said or what I have said before, the Minister responds according to his own opinion. If that is the case, I will repeat it: So we say that as far as benefits are concerned, because until now the state budget has been paid...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u147	And they will continue, but if there are others, no...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u148	However, since there are funds from the programmes. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u149	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u150	I am sorry, however, within the amendment, you say in particular in the last paragraph of the first page of the explanatory statement: 'So, in order to make more full use of resources from co-financed programmes with a similar reduction in government budget expenditure, it is appropriate to supplement the others'. So you yourself, in support of your amendment, have said so yourself. We put this issue, perhaps, in addition to our disagreement and we believe that staff costs should not be paid for - allowances - from programmes which we do not know how much they will be sufficient throughout this financial period. That's the first. The second is that a dangerous possible route is opened for other categories of workers, as far as their allowances and payments are concerned, and that is to say, they are dependent on programmes and not on the state budget as yet. That is our concern, and that is why we will be going to the'standard'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u151	Good. I imagine, Minister, Mr. Amanatidis, that what Mr. Lambroulis said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I have no answer. Okay, now I don't have to answer that. The amendment is specific, and I thank Mr Loverdos for the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u153	Okay, fine. The reason for this is the special speaker from Potami, Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis. Here, Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendment we are debating today, my colleague, Mr Dannelis, has placed himself on the table and said - in my opinion - interesting things. I believe that the Minister, in commenting on Mr Dannelly' s position, said he would pay attention to his comments and, in the end, we will also have some data which, perhaps, differ some aspects of the particular amendment that we are discussing. I just wanted to make two observations. I have listened very carefully to both Ministers. I have tried to understand - especially from Mr Papaggiopoulou, who spoke most of the time - what they were suggesting, exactly where they argued and exactly what they defended. I say this in view of the fact that I have heard very clearly that the provision on which we are amending today has been formulated in a perfectly legal way in the context of the GRECO report in an attempt to modernise our presence on this subject on the basis of European data, to clarify the unclear concept of the setting up of an outlying company. If that's the case, I'd like to tell you something as a parenthesis. I do not believe that it is far from a reasonable approach to things that have been defended in relation to the legal wording of the provision that we are abolishing today with the amendment. But, if that is the case, why did this provision happen and why should this provision lead us to an amendment today? Obviously, if I take into account Mr Papaggiopoulou's basic arguments, today's amendment is to defend the Greek Parliament and ourselves from the populists, hypocrites and newspaper headlines. I would say that a government that has confidence in itself and believes that it does very well for what it does, stands up and defends what it does against populism and hypocrisy, which is not done today. If that is not the reason - and I do not think that this is the reason - and it is the right approach that the government is making today that it needs to defend the country's exposed political staff from misunderstandings about their own economic activity, that is to say, to reject the misunderstandings that can be made, and the slanders or charges against political persons, that would not have been well done, Mr Ministers, to think about it when you formulated the provision. Could you not have thought that we might have been right, that it is within a legal framework of a European approach to the matter, etc., but, in the current phase of the country, when we unnecessarily force Greek society, when the economic plunge around each taxpayer's neck is tightened, can we be misunderstood that we as a political world are saving our own economic activities? If you had thought of this, neither would the provision have existed in this way nor would the current imposition, I would say, of the need for an amendment. Therefore, Ministers, let us sometimes leave these 'levedika' and'resistance' against the populists and the rest of the headlines who blackmail the government, and perhaps see the political gaffes that have been made. Because it may not be an intention - I would not like to go into this story, I do not know, I cannot approach it in this way - but if we have committed a political force, because we did not understand that perhaps a legally correct adaptation can create a climate of slandering or misunderstanding around the political world, we could have avoided it. I conclude by saying that we will also wait for the Minister to see what differentiation he will make in this particular matter. The political problem I raised before, however, I think it is a real one. And I repeat once again that instead of rejecting elementary logic, which is set out in this Chamber with one, I repeat, Leventic, my own, style towards the populists and hypocrites, it is good to bend on the mistakes that you may have made as government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. We proceed with the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis. Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the contested amendment, No 462, concerning offshore companies and the involvement of politicians in them, since it has been the amendment that has been involved for a long time here in this House today. I would like to start with the following: the yesterday in the multiplier bill, among other things, we have also passed the amendment on the involvement of politicians in offshore companies. It has been established that this was one of the prerequisites, which I call and characterize as 'necessary measures', because it is certain that this SYRIZA - ANEL government had no reason but to make any distinction by way of its painful parliamentary work on the issues which it had to deal with, and others, for which it had to fight to avoid and convince the institutions that they had to be expelled, to endure from those which were prerequisites. Through the vigilance of society, the current government, which otherwise has not shown evidence of interactive, corruption, opacity, remula and lovitura, but reveals such issues as those involved in past governments, has shown these signs of writing, condemnable, condemnable and in society those who extinguish it, to the extent that impunity is not being rewarded today but is being punished instead. The current government, therefore, if we assume that it has committed such a great mistake, in proportion to the legal and moral dimensions, is now coming to correct it on the basis of both the grounds that neither the infallibility of the Pope nor the infallibility of our work. And those who work may also make mistakes. And instead of having a consensus in the Chamber of this House and a admission from those who then voted against this article, the specific provision on which we are imposing this amendment today, instead of unequivocally agreeing and, of course, to - as the Minister for Justice, Mr Paradise - in legislative improvements through useful dialogue and debate, the opposition corons - and I am sorry to say it - dominates in this area and the departures also follow them. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate is also causing the division between politicians, citizens and entrepreneurs. We're giving a dimension between legal and moral. Are we really going to call businessmen Greek citizens immoral because they are allowed and are not forbidden to participate in offshore and in administrative councils, these or their relatives? Can we characterize them like that? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Or will we call the possibility of politicians participating in such companies? But in this way, what do we strengthen the Greek feeling with the prevailing political credibility climate? That the politician is rich today, that the politician has so many possibilities that he has outside companies, that the politician is accompanied by elements that make up his image, inconsistent with what he must teach and maintain, as he legislates? All these concerns also give me the experience, but also the cause of the remarks, as I have the honour of addressing you in this Chamber. In any case, this amendment, which we are voting for, comes in favour of in order to correct what otherwise creates false impressions in society, which through television channels in the field of broadcasting are affecting the political world. I won't say any more about that. Of course, I trust the judiciary of the Minister of Justice in relation to legislative improvements, so that no one, but no one, will enjoy any ambiguity of criminal offences. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. So it will also be revealed to a certain extent who those who were interested in the tabling of this amendment - and who have been acting hypocritically - or by the multi-project a few days ago that they were legislating differently. Coming to the second amendment, 459, which concerns the Ministry of Defence, it is of course a pleasure that those attending the Higher School of Officials should first be trained for three years instead of two years. This amendment sets out the framework for the start of the three-year course, which will be from 2015 to three years later. With regard to Amendment 460 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is indeed good that expenditure is being saved and that the general government's budget is not being charged with movements and secondments of foreign officials, who have the ultimate purpose of promoting the general public interest in this area in the exercise of their duties. Finally, with the amendment of the Ministry of Education's amendment, the legal framework governing transparency and legality of such recruitment is even stronger, since the Higher Council for the Selection of Persons, the AACC, will now monitor these tables and the objections. The other topic, which is included in this amendment, is for the largest number of admissions to higher education institutions in the school area in Etolokarnania. It is a positive development from the Ministry of Education in order to compensate the regions affected and to prevent these pupils from being deprived of the right to education under the adverse conditions they have experienced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and five teachers attending the 2nd Artas Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u158	Madam President, Minister, with regard to the contested amendment number 462, the position of the Centro Union was clearly formulated by its parliamentary representative and we expect the improvements that the Minister has said to be put forward. Let us say once again that in the original vote the Union of Centres had voted'represents'. With regard to Amendment No 459 by the Ministry of National Defence, since the will of the General Staff is for a three-year period of study and since the state budget is not charged, the Association of Centres will vote in favour of this amendment. With regard to Amendment No 460 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Minister, we would like a clarification from you. If the state budget is not imposed, are there any funds lost from projects which, in essence, would go to Greek society by paying employees' salaries of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? This clarification we would like to see. And since we are covered by the clarification, we will be voting in favour of this amendment. Now, too, we would like a clarification from the Minister for Education on Amendment No 461. In particular, it refers to paragraph (b) that by a decision of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs may be recruited by substitutes and orthodox teachers prior to the completion of the audit of objections by the AACC. And if they're right, what's gonna happen? Will they be replaced? We would like this clarification from the Minister of Education, Mr Friend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u160	Madam President, I would like to take the floor to give the explanation requested by the representative of the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u161	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much for the question. First of all, I would like to say that, as is the case with the article, it is an addition at the end of paragraph 3 of Article 23 of Law No.4354, which clearly states that all costs are borne by the institution of origin and therefore by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. By way of exception, it says, if the expenditure resulting from the secondment may be borne by the public investment programme, if it is financed - oriented to know that it is - from resources from European or other programmes. In other words, it concerns the European Union's money and programmes that go exclusively to cover the costs of posting. In other words, they are not leaving somewhere else to cover the expenses of distractions or movements. These are specific oriented resources, which we cannot make any difference if this provision does not pass. That's what this is about. I don't know if I covered for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u163	Yes, but the question of eligibility comes in too, if they're eligible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u164	No, they're oriented from there. It's not the NSAs, that is. It is money specifically, which is given by the European Union for this very purpose, to cover posting costs, etc. To use them - you will be seconded, as the provision says - there must be this possibility of giving that money there. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u165	The Minister for Education, Mr. Friends, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u166	I would like to reply to the question asked by my colleague. The AACC shall determine the objections before the appointment of the persons on the basis of the lists of persons entitled and interested to be published. So there is no involvement. They judge on lists, and then the recruitment of persons is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u167	Thank you. Well, the circle of the rapporteurs is closed. Now we will continue with the list of speakers, as they have been recorded. Mr Famelos has been left by the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u168	Madam President, I would like to take the floor to put forward a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u169	You have the floor, Mr. Paraskevi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u170	Madam President, I read and will present to you the legislative improvement in the provision of Article 8 of amended Law 3213/2003, which was previously discussed. These are three points which I support at the moment. The first sentence of paragraph 1 shall be inserted after the words ‘actual or statutory’. It refers to the seat and now covers both the actual and the registered office. Paragraph 2 shall refer to cases with sixty days in which there is a margin for transfer and shall be determined that the transfer does not affect and does not remove the criminal offences already committed in respect of companies having actual or registered registered office in a non-cooperative State in the tax sector or in a State having a preferential tax regime, etc. In other words, the sixty-day margin is only offered to those who are going to come into the criminal court for the first time with the regulation that is being passed now, so that people have the time to adapt to this regulation, of course by stating exactly what they have. The third provision reflects this, which has already emerged from the debate. It is expressly stated that ‘the provision of Article 2 of the Criminal Code does not apply to such infringements’. This means that, in the matters governed by this law, Article 2 of the Criminal Code, which stipulates that even more urgent implementation, in the mid-term between term and trial time, prevails. Here in this particular case, it will not apply. In other words, the provision of Article 2 will of course remain strong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u171	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u172	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo? Let me see her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u173	No, I want to talk about that. I don't know if he's opened a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u174	It's open.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u175	Before you were not presided over, we had a position on many amendments, but we were basically covered by most of them by the Minister of Friday, in the sense that we responded to that. But there are other amendments. So we want to make use of our vocabulary to put us in the other amendments, but in the course of the list of speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Balomemakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are debating today is really being offered for populism. It really is complex. I have the impression that those who give their attitudes to extreme right-wing populism are accountable to democracy itself. We have heard terrible anti-parliamentary crowns here, by people who are declared and by groups that are declared against parliamentaryism. The New Democracy must therefore also weigh on its behaviour, a behaviour which is, of course, horrific and, in particular, horrific with regard to the possibility of roll-call vote. On the subject of the famous amendment: It is true that the term "outdoor company", is in terms of philosophical, very romantic, charming. To a considerable extent, it is the English terminology, but it has proved that it was legally not served. It recommended an vague legal concept and in this sense, with this practice it gave an opportunity on several occasions to get impunity, which I believe could not be tolerated. Besides, as far as we are concerned, already in 2013, it had started to be replaced in the legal texts of previous governments. I say this from the point of view of the hypocrisy of those who are shouting today. The notion of a non-cooperative state is more specific, precisely because each year, from what we have heard, it is determined on the basis of international conditions that these non-cooperative states are. With this amendment, the government goes further than that. It identifies as a problem and companies having their head office or interests in countries with a lower rate of taxation. Is that really a different category and the question is, is this a stricter one? I'm going to. We say that this is a further shield of the current regime, a full shield. Is this thing supposed to happen? If we did not have the vicious regime, if we did not have the multiple attempts and cases where there were circumventions, perhaps we should not. We must, however, because we are dealing with this very regime, and we have this suspicion of the Greek people in front of us. In fact, as far as the Members of Parliament are concerned, what does this provision do? It extends the ban on Article 57 of the Constitution, which, as we all know, imposes certain restrictions, i.e. prohibitions on the Member, to own a television station, radio, newspaper, etc. This is to be tolerated - we have to respond - that is, if this is the case today, why should it not be for companies too? The theory from what we know has resulted in the fact that, as far as public persons are concerned, it is unacceptable to restrict the free development of their personality, precisely because the public interest is being weighted in this case, and because, usually, that is, - there is voluntary representation in public office and it is considered that the public interest is greater, and here, of course, in Greece, which is very hurt, where the politician has to be more careful. I want to raise two issues before I close. Of course, after the corrections and the supplements made by the Minister, I think the answers were given. However, given that the word 'irregularity' has been heard about the transfer, in addition to which 100% has been covered by the proposed amendment by Mr Paradise, I would like to say that this is not immunity because, if a company has not been declared, an activity, including those that were not allowed, there has been a concealment, we have an independent criminal offence. That is what I think is not to be forgotten, and so there is no immunity of any kind. One more thing I want to say about surrogate persons. This provision is indeed strict. However, this presumption is a battle, and we must inform the Greek people that if the person concerned proves that he is engaged in an economic activity on his own account, I do not think this is a matter. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Please, Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Madam President. We are in the face of an effort by the government to justify an act which does not need to be described, if it was a conscious choice, whether it was appropriate, whether it was a perpetual one or as described by a parliamentary representative, a political bluff. There was a monstrous mistake. He showed up all week. Majority MPs agreed that if they knew the content, they would not vote. The government then comes in and says that it will deal with the problem that has arisen. So far, healthy reaction. But when the government comes here today and says that populism is the problem and not the provision itself, it does not only deny a reaction that could be healthy but puts us to thoughts which have been reflected in our positions so far. In the provision that came and was passed as Article 178, there was essentially ambiguousness, negligence simply for those who violated the 2010 law of the full ban on participation in offshore in one way or another in any state, whether cooperative or not. It comes today with the correction, before Mr Paradise's place and the distribution, which I have not examined, is to give forgiveness and create a regime for the settlement of this procedure. When our Parliamentary spokesman asked for this and said that it was forgiving and decriminating, three, four, five specific colleagues of the SYRIZA reacted, saying that he did not read, did not, did not show. "Previously you speak, three.", Mr. Paraparapulos licensed them, because he basically accepted what we pointed out to him. So, ladies and gentlemen, you have not been taught by the vote under Rule 178, which you have made your self-criticism - not all of them, but many - that there may also be in this procedure? Now what does Mr Friday's speech show? It shows that he needs more attention. It is not, in fact, a question of a party line in a mass space where most of us have - or have - become - embroidered, that is, 'the party said so and finished'. We should read more carefully and listen to opposition, because that is the role of counter-population. Through its criticism, through the examination of things from another perspective, its role is to facilitate the majority, too, to make right decisions. Well, your tactics so far have not shown that you can help in this way. I heard what Mr. Paradoxopoulos said. As I said, I did not have time to see the order because it was not immediately shared, as the system has a bureaucracy. If it does not exclude all offshore areas under the 2010 law that had a total ban - that is to say, that the criminal is not lifted for any of those who were subject to the 2010 Law ban - and it comes and legislates with individual designations and says 'cooperative', 'non-cooperative', etc., it is blurred, Minister. For everyone who was banned by the 2010 law, the criminal offence should not be lifted. If you do not guarantee this - and I say that I reserve it, because I have not read it - then you continue to have tabled a suspicious provision. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is, in fact, a suspicious provision, which may be specific, in the process of transferring things, but it may not appear whether it was a banker, a minister, a State Secretary, a MP or anything else, because they are not only political persons subject to this ban, as Mr Constantinople rightly pointed out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we will look into it in this context.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u180	Stop the bell, Madam President. My colleague's talking. Let there be some respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u181	First of all, Madam President, you have put five minutes. Seven minutes we are entitled, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You did not raise in plenary the question of whether we want to talk for seven minutes or five minutes. So I am not in doubt or unrealistic. We shall be placed, after studying these amendments, in accordance with the political position we have previously developed, as expressed by our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u182	Don't complain about time. He's been identified here by the services and it's five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u183	The services do not, however, change the Rules of Procedure without Parliament's approval.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u184	That's not a bill. It's an amendment to the contract. Mr. Giolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] In what has been heard just now, the response from the SYRIZA and ANEL Members is the one-sided attitude that will appear with the vote immediately, but also the willingness of the relevant Minister to heal any imperfections of certain legislation. So you have no reason, afterward, to do the honors, while no care and diligence have been taken so far, to heal the hidden demonic streets of the so-called offshore companies. We, on the other hand, have taken care of that. That was our care and diligence. I will answer some questions raised or misled. Does the amendment introduce a strict law? Indeed, the law becomes strict because it is only in this form and terms that no one will ever get away from those who want to tax or benefit from tax exemptions, since the law, morality and the economic situation of the country does not want it, nor does society welcome it. Why did we not suffice in the recently adopted article of Law 178? We have supplemented him, ladies and gentlemen, because there is a great risk that the political persons involved will not behave inconsistently, not only against morality, but also because it is "ethical but not lawful" and, on the one hand, by listening to the limits of legality, by exploiting more favourable tax systems of other European and other countries and, on the other, by denying from the Greek public the corresponding taxes called for by each Greek State, and, on the other hand, by not rewarding the aggressive tax planning of European countries - see Bulgaria, Cyprus Malta - which, on the other, is clearly fighting, defending and defending the interests of our country. On this policy of indirect tax evasion, no Greek citizen can tolerate happening for themselves, much more for the political persons contained in the contested provisions. They will simply to naively claim that children or spouses are being hampered - they are the so-called ‘participating persons’ - to engage in entrepreneurial activities with participation in companies, but not individual entrepreneurship, which is permitted Oh, no! That's inaccurate. Where such persons prove that by money lawfully acquired and exported by themselves, business is carried out, they have nothing to fear. On the contrary, they fear - and that is how it should be done from now on - that those who travel before the daisies and labyrinths or traveled routes, to invest their money abroad and speculate, by depriving Greece of taxes. Finally, I should remind you of what with great wisdom the common sense, the word 'clean sky lightnings, is not afraid'. Some who are afraid, deaf or absent from the Chamber and today's session. The clean, honest, consistent citizen and, in particular, the aspirations to hold honorary positions, such as the mayor, the district manager, coordinators and others, must first state his philosopheria, since Caesar's wife must be and must appear honorable, much more Caesar himself! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Giola. Now Mr Koutsoukos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should stand on two critical points, because people are listening to us. The first point is what happened. What has happened is an attempt by the government to subtract the majority Members' vote, because the relevant ministers, Mr. Paradoxopoulos and Mr. Papagelopoulos, when they spoke about the provisions relating to 'whereabouts', they referred to enlargement and expansion. Mr Papagelopoulos said, 'We are adapting to the current tax legislation the concept of extraterritoriality, because so far there have been various problems', etc. In other words, it gave the House the feeling that it is making a tax adjustment. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is another matter of how you deal with the issue of politics and ethics, which says: must a Member of Parliament, a Minister of State or should not have any extraterritoriality? This was not understood in this House or in the explanatory statement. Somebody had to go back to the abolished provisions to figure it out. Of course, I believe that if the majority Members had understood it, they would not have voted. So they have personal responsibility from both Ministers and from where does they seem to have personal responsibility? It can be seen from the answer they gave the next day, he just made the matter public, because he started it on a Sunday newspaper, and then the whole press picked it up. They issued a communication attempting to justify their action, again with fiscal arguments. Did you read that announcement from the Ministry of Justice and claim that he was doing this change well? Did you see what the Maximus leaked? Did you hear what your representatives told the media on Monday and Tuesday? Of course, Mr. Tsipras was forced under the outcry to get it back. He gets it back now, extending the ban to everyone. I personally do not disagree with that because I repeat that no politician has any business to do with business. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that the provision of paragraph 5 was a remembrance operation for him or for those who photographed the abolition of the universal ban, i.e. having outside companies. He had no reason for the government to do that. It has been said that it can, during this period, be legalized to make its transfers. We are now coming here to give him an extension of this procedure and forgiveness of sins. If what Mr Paralympicopoulos said earlier - which we did not have time to study in depth - indicated a intention that he understood his error or, in any case, that he does not want to be further criticized about covering some, we will be voting in favour of it. As far as the rest is concerned, we do not disagree because they are essentially an improved return to what was in place until 2010. We have no objections. Besides, PASOK had legislated the universal ban. Our laws, which you did not vote on in 2010, despite the fact that you invoked them in the case of Mr Vernick, and of course we can say that you have suffered a moral and political defeat, for the sake of the publicity he has taken this issue, because at some point the truth shines. You may lie a lot for a long time in a few, you may say a little to many but a lot to many and for a long time you cannot say! Well, that's what's happened today. This is a political victory for those who have fought to overthrow this provision. So please, Minister, do not confirm, in the legislative wording of paragraph 5, what has been written and said, namely that the government intended to cover some. So accept our remarks to go back to the universal ban and for the interim period, so that someone who has used this regulation these days will not find themselves decriminalized and delivered clean. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Now Mr. Beyalas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, dear chairs of counter-population - of course I mention them because I see that there is no one, they have left, they have gone -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u190	Officer Opposition!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u191	That's right! Officer Opposition, not Opposition. That's what I want to humiliate. They left, he says, why don't we do something good. Now I'm wondering why I'm confused, as I've been confused many times, about what they say we're not doing anything good. What are we talking about? That we are bringing in a provision in which political people, the political leaders and the exercisers of power in that country must not have companies abroad. Of course we shouldn't have. How will we be persuaded as civilians when we tell others to make investments when we ask for investment in Greece and we ourselves to take shares and make investments abroad? I guess that's what someone's supposed to do, who's a divided personality. Otherwise, every reasonably thinking citizen, every political being and every man who wants to offer in that country cannot do so. Why did they leave? For the self-evident thing? For logic? Why are we going to vote today as an amendment to a very proper provision in a provision that Greek society does not need? Obviously - and I think our parliamentary representative has said so - conceals guilt. Maybe? Ladies and gentlemen, it is offshore companies that are outside the country. It's nothing different. It was just discovered as the middle of the last decade, to hide all the black money, to hide all the corruption. This is where we have all the political scandals that were connected with the offshore companies. Outer companies, though, where? Have you seen any outside company from one of the political persons who are being discussed in scandals, being in Germany, Italy, Spain, that is, in countries that are not tax havens, signed the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation with our country and are cooperating? Where'd that happen? In the Cayman Islands, some in Cyprus with lower rates, there was a huge difference in tax rates or there was no co-operating country agreement. Isn't that taken into account? Ladies and gentlemen, this provision today is indeed a protection for the political system. But it is not just for the protection of the political system, it is a substance and I mentioned it before. We cannot say today 'Come to investors' and we politicians in this country invest in a foreign country. They referred to how this development took place, if that was the case, why didn't the Minister think about it or why he got away with it? I will say: The fact that they may not have thought about it or for any other reason, going to correct a provision of 2010, to make it specific after GRECO's suggestion, has been very well, because I think it is a great opportunity, all that was done, to come and give a universal ban to what was going on today, to create political faces of companies and to have shares and to participate in boards. But what do we have these days? All channels, most of the channels and media, and all of the anti-politics officials, start up and attack the government against the Ministry. They dug a very big pit. Yeah, but today they didn't sit around waiting to see who they're gonna shoot. The government, or will they fall in it themselves? Because they dig too big a pit, they fell in. I cannot imagine how the New Democracy after this abstention from this vote will come to justify anything. They should know that their abstention from this vote will follow them for many years. He will follow them, because they have guilt and cannot cover what they wanted to cover. Ladies and gentlemen, you can be sure that in listening to this amendment alone, much of the Greek people understood that the previous provision was really going to correct something that was indiscreet in 2010 but that was not enough. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, without claiming - as another colleague has said - 'the infallibility of the Pope', we come and make an amendment, which we are voting for, an amendment which puts things in their true dimension. The politician, the Greek politician, the bourgeoisie in the country, should invest in the country and not in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Beyla. Now Mr Papatheodorou has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR. One of the speakers has left, Mr. Dimitriadis from SYRIZA. Then Mr. Famelos, the parliamentary representative, will speak. A request has been made by Mr Loverdos to give the floor to Parliament's representatives to the legislative improvements which have been made. I'll give the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u193	For more time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u194	It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u195	Do I have the floor, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u196	Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much. Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the inspired concept in the world is that something has happened and I think we should all agree on that. Something's happened. Rule 178 was voted on by the Parliamentary majority, there was a reaction by society, and possibly also by MPs, however, from the opposition, and a new provision today, which we are called upon to look again at, has changed, because on the part of the Democratic Independence there has been a concrete reaction to the content and content of the motions for resolutions. I heard Mr. Papagelopoulos this morning, even if he unintentionally attempted to reverse reality a little, reality is one, he's focused on the world. There was covert or if there wasn't any cover-up there was. We're not talking about suspicion here, because if you were stable in your opinion, you wouldn't have changed, Minister, in 178. There is something else that I will tell you, although I do not think it is the current tactics in parliamentary morals. Mr Paradoxopoulos said earlier that he also supports the amendment - it seems, moreover, because he co-signed - Mr Papagelopoulos, who was the rapporteur. In fact, Minister, in my view, you may not accept it, but I would like you to hear it: it was done precisely because there was the noise, Mr Papagelopoulos today simply reiterated the correctness of the earlier provision, and Mr Paradise simply changed it together, after which he co-signatured a legislative improvement, which is a bit different. But let's see her. I am starting with the explanatory statement, Mr Paradoxopoulos, because we are interested in this. What do we describe in the explanatory statement? We describe the following: "It ensures that the persons in charge of the regulation of the proposed paragraph participate not only in non-cooperating states in the tax sector but also in states of which..." - you hear, Mr Colleague, it is important, especially for legal persons - "... whose tax system is clearly lighter vis-à-vis the Greek." In Europe, ladies and gentlemen, obviously and clearly, the tax system for all companies is much lighter than today for us and for companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u198	Bulgaria. Which other country? Only in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u199	And what are you going to do in Bulgaria? It's 12%. It is 12% both in Cyprus and in other European countries. So what are you gonna do? What you are doing, it is simply to go from the provision that was in existence and was clear in 2010 and said that the participation of a political person in an offshore company is forbidden, to split the non-cooperatives now and at the same time to talk about a more favourable tax regime. In many - I repeat - European countries we have a more favourable tax regime. What do we want to criminalize here? Do we want to criminalise the participation of the political person and many other people in companies with real registered office in these countries? And why did we not have enough of the previous 2010, which was clear? The separation at the moment between, firstly, non-cooperating states and, secondly, states with a particular and more favourable tax system, I think it is confusing and we should still see it. My third point is this: we have an example of symbolic legislation here, Minister. Why? I have heard what Mr Paradoxopoulos said that Article 2 of the Criminal Code does not apply, so we will not have legal effects. Isn't that what you said, Minister? But that applies, as far as the Criminal Procedure is concerned. Have you considered the fact that the principle of the application of the more beneficial law has a constitutional dimension and there the court does not accept that there was no production of legal effects? On the contrary, there was. And finally, we have a paragraph which you have proposed, without any substance and any legal effect. Therefore, in my view, we should go back to the main ban on offshore for political persons and not have the law in force since its adoption. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a little more time to say something else, Madam President. Just because there was this whole spasm going - come on with the amendments, we have been in the process of an incredible piece of legislation on the parables. I think you've all read them. Are the surviving spouses?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u200	Maybe it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u201	Are they the ones who have concluded a cohabitation agreement? Are the first grade relatives? In other words, you are excluded from economic activity by a Secretary-General or a daughter of a secretary-general, who is active abroad. That's what you want to do and you think this is a fair legal element or that it protects the political system. Precisely because it was open earlier, precisely because you opened the suspicion with 178, you will not be able to close it with such excessive provisions. That is why I think you should still see the text again. You've been trying to do this since the beginning, Ministers. It's not coming out. It should be limited and at least have a legal basis that can be applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u203	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have two issues to deal with. The first is the political issue that arises on the basis of a provision in the previous major bill, which is important to note that its intention was not to regulate matters relating to political money. It was something broader and completely different. So, in a provision that we thought is simply broadening and verifying the procedure of the offshore company, a debate was in fact created, an open issue in society, which, as we owed, we hear and take a position precisely because we are not the same, precisely because we are very interested in not going through a side or rear door topic which is just about our principles and moral codes. It also matters to us, because this intervention is at the heart of the popular mandate we have received, and it is the effort to save public wealth and public money in the public interest. On the legal issue we have said that there seems to be a gap and that is what we are intervening. And we are actively and decisively intervening with a generalised arrangement, which is neither too much nor too much, precisely because we are, and that is what we believe, prohibits from here and beyond any political official, from the Prime Minister to the Members of Parliament, from participating in any foreign company, or its capital or its general council. The second paragraph then provides that a set of general government officials cannot participate in favourable tax places, such as known world places where black money is based. There is one comment on this, the fact that during these few days there is an example where someone can escape and exploit this situation. It hasn't happened. It's a verb and a clean one. What remains to be noticed is this impressive, for me at least as a new Member: the absence of the Officerial Opposition, which is not just a absence but a deafening position. And it is a deafening position not so much on the substance of the provision that we have brought, because its embarrassment is obvious, but it is a deafening position on the substance of its policy. Whenever discussion and reality go to real needs and data, it is essentially the Civic Opposition that is self-sufficient because it has learned to mean politics as a deception and a concealment. Indeed, there is in politics the element of misleading and concealing it, but that is not all. We are all the others that are the real needs of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Demetriades. The cycle of the seconds of the Parliamentary Representatives is opened. Mr. Famelos also has his protagonists.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u205	No, Madam President. I'll do it together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u206	So you'll do it together. Mr. Loverdos who asked for the floor isn't here. Mr. Cassidy, would you like to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u207	And I, Madam President, will do it together after SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u208	After SYRIZA. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Carras, do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u209	Madam President, I will facilitate the speed of the process. First of all, I would like to say yes that, as far as the legislative improvements brought by Mr Paradoxopoulos are concerned, I agree. But still the issue of families remains. I think we should also see that, because once a provision is passed, it is still pending. I shall refer briefly to the fact that my colleague Mr Saridis has already covered me for the other amendments, which we have, of course, said we are voting on. I can say that the amendment, which concerns the students of the PSA School, solves a matter. I can then say that we have received a satisfactory response to the issue of payroll abroad. Mr. Amanatidis was placed. Of course, I have a minimum reservation - but I do not bring it as a question - in the sense of whether there is any foreign money that can be made available for payment of foreign wages. I don't want an answer. You've covered a lot of it, Mr. Amanatidis, but it's something I've never heard of. And because I've never heard of it before, I'm holding a minimum reservation if we're going through the NRP in the end, or whether we're going with direct resources. It does not matter, we will support the amendment. What I want to say and I shall end immediately, Madam President, is for the educational staff for whom Mr Philis has been placed. I also have a reservation on this - although we should not be too strict on educational issues, since even little help to improve the climate and to study children's studies - on how to deal with the issue in the event of delays by the AACC, which will check the legality of the tables. If the AACC is delayed, will the Minister make a decision and place it, cover the posts, or should it be uncovered and the education of the children is delayed until the AACC decides? Because, many times, we are legally referring to the AACC assigning powers - because it is ultimately a judicial role - but I do not know whether we have yet ensured full support for the AACC's functions with the appropriate staff and with the administrative staff. The premises I know he has them, because I've visited them, and I know he has them. However, I have seen that there is a shortage of staff and administrative and scientific staff. If, therefore, I propose,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,........................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Loverdo, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u211	I want it in private too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u212	You used to all want to talk first. Now you all want to be last.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u213	I didn't say that. There are a few comments on the other amendments I would like to make, Madam President. I am referring first of all to the amendment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Okay, well, that's not the source of funding the most appropriate. In any case, I do not see any particular disagreement. As far as the amendment from the Ministry of National Defence is concerned, we are opposed. It is supposedly upgraded and, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of National Defence has announced a legislative initiative on this issue, which comes in a few days' time. Why does an amendment come which resolves the whole question that was announced? To avoid hearing the bodies? We are voting against it, and we are very much in favour of it. As far as the amendment from the Ministry of Education's amendment is concerned, we shall vote on it. However, the Minister must, especially after the case we had last year with the appointments of the alternates, see whether for the examination of objections, where the Ministry works and accepts or rejects, the AACC may exercise its specific duty within the time allowed for the Ministry. For while, on the side of the guarantees and the administration plays its part in a dignified and incomprehensible manner - because I can tell you that it is a mechanical examination of objections - the addition of the ADP is not negative, but the Minister must have taken into account the time needed by the ADP. In this sense, we are voting on this amendment. As far as Mr. Paradise is concerned, Mr. Minister, you are being legislated in panic. Anyone who legislates in panic is sure that he will make another mistake, in addition to the mistakes he has already made. The proof that you legislate in panic is, as I said before, the fact that you legislate by amending your law ten days ago. This is a confession and guilt and panic. Secondly, there are amendments to the amendments you are making today, accepting remarks made by the Opposition. I repeat, however, that anyone who legislates in panic must know - and the Chamber must know - and I want to say this in order to invoke these Minutes - that the accuracy of the regulation may be problematic and that the purpose of the regulation is not, in the end, the one that is intended but the other, resulting from the wrong wording or from the wrong thought made by the legislator. We're lawmakers here. Before I say what I am committed to, I will say what I agree with. We agree with the first clarification on real and registered seats. We also agree with the sixty-day arrangement. Minister, you have to think, firstly, that there was a complete and complete ban that you abolished. We had proposed and voted with Minister, then, with Harry Kastanides, the total ban on politicians, ministers and MPs who are not meant to have their money where they have less taxation than their fellow citizens. You must accept that if you do not use in the wording of your speech the reference to persons and the absolute prohibition of Law 3849/2010, we will consider what to do about this arrangement. We've got a reservation. Thirdly, Mr Paradise is missing. That's too bad. I want his partners to report to him. He is well aware that, once a more favourable criminal regulation has been passed, no matter what the legislator says later, it is a question of lawyers trying to use it and of the court that will accept the arguments. Whatever you do, whatever you say, the evil has done. The crisis in this House does not solve the issue. The judgement of the courts will resolve it. But even a delusion that goes to be created in the Chamber must be dismantled, we must lift it. You refer to Article 2 of the Criminal Code. That's right, but it's not enough, Minister. I am not addressing Mr. Papagelopoulos. I have been referring to Mr Paradise since this morning for many reasons. He's the Minister of Justice. He can't make us here the Minister doing ideas. He was supposed to be a diligent man as a professor of Criminal Law, and in particular...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u214	Come on, Mr. Loverde. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u215	Let me finish, Madam President. We have serious issues. Whatever you say about Article 2 of the Criminal Code, which prohibits retroactive power, you cannot forget that the prohibition on the application of a more unfavourable criminal law is enshrined in Article 7(1) of our Constitution. Apart from that, you cannot forget that the Human Rights Convention protects this principle of criminal law and that the United Nations also protects it. This is a global principle. We will vote for your speech, but whatever the three hundred, once a day, for twelve hours, for one hour, half an hour, for a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u216	All right, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u217	There is no 'all right', Madam President. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u218	Accomplice! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u219	I want to complete my argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u220	There's a rule. You think because you have arguments you can talk until afternoon?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u221	Don't worry about the time issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u222	I don't understand why you're complaining.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u223	You're doing an exceptional procedure. We have completed it, we are following it to the extent that you are opening a list of speakers, but you must be diligent over time, because the arguments must be heard. We are told after all, 'you hadn't said so', and this matter concerns Greeks and Greek citizens. Please! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it all concerns, but you did not accept any of our remarks, you reacted, and the Ministry now accepts them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u224	Finish, Mr. Loverdo. Don't open any new issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u225	So I say, Minister, that we will be voting on your third legislative intervention, but we are conscious that we are at the mercy of the lawmakers who will take account of the importance of the regulation that this House will adopt in a short time but cannot take into account Article 7 of the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights and what is the case in the field of Criminal Law internationally. So, you've done a bad thing, you've confessed and you don't possibly fix it. I sum up, Madam President, and I close by saying that we have raised a matter with regard to the adoption of the draft law in its entirety today. You didn't hear that. You shared the text to vote on it as a whole. This creates too many problems. It is really worth asking how, while you have created yourself so many problems, before it even ends up by the Ministry that it completes the use of anti-population intervention to make up its provisions, you even share it with us to get time. The solution to security, Minister, is not to vote so that we do not take your responsibilities. So please - and please for the second time - leave the vote on the whole for another day. However, Madam President, you must inform the President of this House - and the whole Bureau is here - that we are asking the House and in the previous period, with Mrs Constantopoulos, for us to be given the opportunity to vote on some of the regulations - it is an article that the Minister of Justice amendment - and not to vote on them. It was done in the previous period of the House for you that exception from an old rule. And now, or else we'll think too much about what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Loverdo, you've been able to speak for ten minutes because you have many arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 6th Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] MEP Mr Ioannis Maniatis asks for his permission to be granted for his absence from the work of the Parliament for the period from 1 June to 2 June 2016 due to his transition abroad for his participation in the Workshop of the Socialists and Social Democrats. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u227	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on the Status of their Powers’. B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding on Military Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Arab Republic of Egypt’. C. Other: ex II. ‘Programme Arrangement (Programme Arrangement) No. A -1424 [MIOS] between the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of Estonia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland and the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Ministry of Defence of the Netherlands and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Ireland, the Ministry of Defence and the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of the European Union of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of Ireland and the Kingdom of the Kingdom of Defence of the Kingdom of the United Nations We continue with the parliamentary representatives who do not need to imitate Mr Loverdos with regard to time. Come on, Mr. Felmele. You have five plus three, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the amendment in question, I think it is necessary and we as a Parliamentary Group should clarify the environment and the context on which the debate is taking place. Firstly, there has been legislation on the non-participation of MPs, ministers and general political persons in foreign companies, offshore, since 2010. In this legislation, however, there appears to be no provision effective for all the parties, for all these elements and methods by which the political system covered both its own and the other irregular economic functions, which are not in line with the legality and the morality of our people. This was revealed with the Panama Papers, revealed with the tax evasion lists. Surgical documentaries for which the opposition still plays a key role, have not even been placed, not even apologized. So, on the one hand, we recognise that there is a parallel issue, all these adolescents who are indirectly managing and covering political money, which is our main priority. That is why the government has taken concrete initiatives to bring all these lists to Greece, lists hidden in drawers and in skates, to check by the appropriate prosecutors, to apologise, pay and pay to the Greek people what all those who have had to do with tax evasion worked in the previous years and contributed to the crisis and deterioration of the economic and political system. But this legislation on offshore companies has all confessed to having serious gaps. It was practically inappropriate. There was a certain deficit and that was detected. The House knew. It has been submitted to the committee responsible for discussing 'whereabouts'. The Vice-President, Mr Kaklamanis, also recognised this. It's not just Parliamentary space. Parliament's Scientific Service had formulated it in the relevant laws. At the same time, it was formally formulated by the GRECO Convention, the Convention of the anti-corruption countries. This has been formally lodged in a Council of Europe document dated 19 June 2015 expressly stating that ‘for the participation of Members in the financing or management of a foreign company...’, the expression ‘outdoor’ is not analysed more clearly. There is no commonly accepted definition. It is obvious that this contradiction may have harmful and counterproductive consequences. The objectives and effectiveness of the foreign law must be reviewed. I always go on from the GRECO Convention, because things have to be said at some point with their name in Parliament. It concludes recommendations for the revision of the objectives and identification of offshore companies. He also puts a date: December 31, 2016. So that there is no misunderstanding and that some people will not be arrested again, I shall submit this contract and the relevant information in the Minutes. [[At this point, MP Socrates Famelos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The GRECO Convention has obviously been part of our debate and our obligation to the loan agreement in our country. That is why it has explicitly been foreseen that the Government undertakes to apply the recommendations of a group of anti-corruption countries in full and in good time. This was also passed in the House and not just by SYRIZA. I also make this document from the Legal Intelligence Bank of the House. [[At this point, MP Socrates Famelos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Has this procedure been hidden in the debate on the Multifibre Arrangement? And that's a lie, ladies and gentlemen. I am also presenting in the minutes the speech made by Deputy Minister Dimitris Papagelopoulos, who expressly expressed last Sunday, ten days ago in this area, that 'we are adapting to the applicable tax legislation of the concept of 'outland', because so far various problems have arisen and are replaced by the terminology of companies that do not cooperate and are not qualify as cooperating in the tax sector, which has the effect of having significant implications for the necessary control'. [[At this point, MP Socrates Famelos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, not just was there in the legal texts, but it was declared by the relevant Minister in the House, so that there is no question of any misunderstanding. But did our own intervention give political persons and their respective officials the opportunity to participate in companies in non-tax cooperative countries, as publicity relayed? Because that's what the public has relayed, that SYRIZA opens a loophole for the ministers to participate in offshore. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the contrary, he has documented and shielded the non-participation of political persons in non-tax co-operating countries. Did he have retrospective power? Because this, too, misinformation parrots have relayed it. Clearly not. Even if a country proved to be a cooperative tax route, during the period when offshore was in a country that was not cooperative tax, it is a crime and is referred to by that political person. Did that, too, cause us a problem in the middle? But how, ladies and gentlemen? When we had a '10 law that did not shield the country, with the result that political people fleeing control of companies, for example, in Luxembourg or Cyprus, now that we are establishing it under the GRECO Convention, we have now created a 'window'? On the contrary, we have identified minor protection in the light of international conditions, so that we can move on to our political choice, to shield and to the credibility of the political system. But because we have to answer these issues - not only did it come from the Opposition, it entered by other colleagues from the Hellenic Anti-Population - we say it publicly: 'Give in here a case that has been exploited by the law, and we are committed to solving it immediately, but do not throw another'slash in the fan', because Greece is not just tired, but is still suffering from the economic crisis that this mud has created and this policy that you have been conducting for so many years. We in the face of propaganda, in the disinformation created by the media and also by opposition parties, had to put ourselves to a question, because some were honourers of honesty and credibility. Of course it is worth commenting: Do you want us to believe that the New Democracy of SIEMENS and Papastaurou is a guardian of sovereignty and honesty? And why didn't he stay in here to defend it? But we have to answer a question. Will we give space and time to the parliamentary and public debate on the extra steps to shield the political system, or should we respond directly to the mudology, misinformation and propaganda? We therefore respond directly to this amendment. We take nothing behind the contents of the multi-legislative draft, which constitute an immunisation at the minimum level on the basis of international conventions, but we also go ahead with the immunisation of the participation of political persons in foreign companies, and we strictly extend this ban, in a way that is approaching - and I would agree with a colleague who said so - the incompatibility of the Members. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is what the opposition parties will do, and in particular the Civic Opposition that has chosen to flee, if they will support this option of tightening up - if you like - the legislation. Withdrawal is evasive and covert and is an insult to both the citizens and Parliament. Because we are wondering what political responsibility and what else this withdrawal wants to hide. This week New Democracy asked for the withdrawal of Article 178 and for us to return to the old 2010 environment. What did he ask for, then, practically? To move to an environment in which the public interest is not protected. So the New Democracy was officially asking to return to an environment where the GRECO Convention and the Scientific Service of the Parliament have formulated that it does not protect the country. And Mr. Kaklamanis admitted that. Eventually, is the thief yelling to be afraid of the housekeeper? Because they seek, from the very outset, to return to the past, where no one was controlled, on the other hand to defeat the political tactics of the government and on the other hand to be inconsistent as a country in international conventions. Whose evil, then, is the New Democracy seeking? What exactly is the aim of this policy? Our view, from the beginning of today's debate, was that they should return to plenary and discuss what concerns citizens and society, because this fleeing suggests participation in this whole cycle that has caused a problem in our country, the cycle of corruption and the conflict. And these colleagues must remain honest to discuss here, because our only, main and main choice is that our policy is now, but also its economic policies in front of the citizen, in Parliament, with the transparency required by the Treaties, in order to get the country on its feet, in order for the Greeks to create, restore the credibility of the policies, but also of the economy, and so that we can end with the old past of Greece, which has brought us into this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Femmel. I would like to make a statement to this House. MEP Mr Spyridon Dannelis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from 1-6-2016 to 4-6-2016, following a call from the Group of Socialists and Democrats of the European Parliament. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u230	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Cassidy has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u231	In our prototype we stressed that the amendment tabled by the relevant Minister of SYRIZA on offshore could not in its original form be accepted and accepted, because it effectively defended 'black' political money and those politicians who have committed economic crime by illegally creating offshore in tax havens. We see some variations and we will finally vote on this amendment after it has been differentiated, even though it does not cover us. And the Golden Dawn, when it governs this country, will ban all political actors, MPs, ministers, mayors, those involved in the public, not only from having offshore, but also from general business abroad, deposits and bonds in foreign banks. Each political person must have the obligation, if it maintains an enterprise, to keep the company in Greece and to pay taxes only on Greece and its deposits must be only on Greek banks. We have mentioned many examples of government actors, ministers of SYRIZA, the relevant ministers who brought the newly horrendous memorials to Greece with huge deposits: Tsakalotos EUR 876,000, Stathakis EUR 827,000 at "BLACKROCK", "JP MORGAN", funds outside Greece, which must be repatriated. I would stress, however, - and I will insist on this - the total absence of the New Democracy party, which has long ceased to exist as an Opposition in this Chamber. There's no Qualified Opposition. The only force that opposes this anti-national government is the country's third political party, the People's Association - Golden Dawn. We saw the New Democracy disappear today, fugitive and hide. What can she say about the offshore issue? What about Papastaurus, the Lagard list, the Panama list? From the moment that Mitsotakis himself has been commanded by Merkel not to opposition to SYRIZA, he has been given a specific mandate from the European People's Party that the New Democracy Party should be nonexistent in this Chamber, because SYRIZA is the first choice of international tachography to pass all these burdensome memoirs on Greece. As far as the other amendments are concerned, we will, of course, vote against the amendment from the Ministry of Education. We ask for recruitment of teachers with merital criteria and, above all, through ASP. We cannot at last hear a undocumented Minister of Education coming out in public and say that it is only the teaching of ancient Greeks. That is why we have come to this current anti-Greek education that the young children of Greece do not know how to speak the Greek language. We will say 'yes' to the amendment on the upgrading of schooling at the Military Schools of Permanent Officials of the Navy and Air Force. It's a request from the Armed Forces. We respect and honor the Armed Forces. We served in the Armed Forces, contrary to the rulers who have lauded their term of office, who have unfortunately led the Greek army to do errands of illegal immigrants, and this is a crime against the Armed Forces. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Don't yell when we tell truths! Don't yell...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u232	Mr. Cassidy, you've exceeded your time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u233	...because you have literally humiliated the Armed Forces of Greece. I conclude by saying that the Golden Dawn will vote in favour of the offshore amendment, even though we demand no offshore in politics, no submission of any political factor to a foreign bank, no business outside Greece. All this will be done by the Golden Dawn People's Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Madam President. We welcome Mr Paradise's acceptance of our objections, which is why we welcome the improvements he has put forward. But I would like to bring back, Minister, and our other remark, in relation to the total ban on the participation of political persons and their relatives first in any outside business. Because I repeat that the unconstitutionality, the absoluteity of these provisions, will in fact also lead to the non-implementation, non-implementation of this law. That is why, please, consider what we have proposed to you, namely that what is envisaged in the second paragraph of the amendment, which you have tabled, should also apply to the Ministers and Members. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the restoration of the climate of confidence and credibility of the political world as a whole, with society, is an absolute priority for what we believe in parliamentaryism. Let us keep this in mind, in relation to every move, with every choice, with every decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u236	Now Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Madam President. We have said before that that the essence of the whole debate is how political staff seem rather than fundamentally being honest and moral. Because you are well aware that it is not possible for the civil servants of the bourgeoisie to be honest and moral, since, at least, it systematically passes anti-grass laws, it systematically passes laws which serve the interests of capital and monopolistic groups. And all this activity, of course, leaves the ground open to gain relationships that are interoperable with big capital. You said that the previous provision, Article 178, brought it - that is how the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative claimed - to be consistent with international conventions. What international conventions? In these most reactive organisms, such as GRECO, and in the reports that these reactive organisms make public. With Article 178 you have brought a more favourable regime, Mr Minister, in a legislative context. If it were not more favourable, you would not have taken care to change it with your amendment today. From this point of view, once this favourable tax regime, based on the Criminal Code, is in force, it will be able to be exploited by acts that have been done in the past. And the present context with the amendment, which we say from the outset we will vote on, and the improvements made by the Minister in the order, will in fact prove to be a disaster. Why would the treasure prove carbon? Because in an environment of market liberalisation, with tax havens and a number of interchanging economic relations, you understand very well that the whole of the assets cannot appear. You cannot be protected from virtual transfers of assets abroad. It's a widespread phenomenon at the time of the sixty days you've given. And, of course, it is not complete, once you have released the deposits abroad, the possession of bonds from abroad and from various other financial products. And, of course, you do not even dare to see the JRC's proposals for the abolition of secrets, for the denomination of shares. From this point of view, whatever communication games SYRIZA is doing with roll-call votes for today's amendment - take note of why the many communists can lead you to put an automobile - no matter how much the New Democracy helps you with the tactics that he has done, leaving the Chamber today, it is clear that it cannot hide the deep anti-linguistic, classmark of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u238	The Prime Minister has asked for the floor. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to take the floor for five minutes, because I have seen today evolving in this Chamber once again, comic-tracts, such as the withdrawal of Officer Opposition. Of course, one would expect that he would come to this Chamber today to conquer the government, as he has done in the last three days, after a front page of a newspaper discovered the great scandal! A scandal, of course, that the New Democracy, the Opposition and no one else could find out, because it says - it was seven and a half thousand pages of the bill. Indeed, the pages were many. It was two hundred eighty pages, not seven and a half thousand. Except that particular provision - the big scandal! - it was known to everyone from October. But that's not the point. The fact is, he was calling us over two consecutive 24 hours to come to the House. And when we decided to come to the House to see how much waste the sack puts and the Greek people could understand this communal misery that's been played all these days, they ran away. That's why I asked to speak. Because the lie has short feet. And all that has been unfolded over the past few days proves a strategic weakness of Officerial Opposition to produce a serious political opposition, to criticise a political reason that has an erection, beginning, middle and end. And of course, this does not only mirror its attitude to this matter. I'm not gonna get tired of talking about a massive strategic dead end of Officer Opposition. They're talking about reforms, demolishing reformists. However, they have nothing substantial, no substantial reform. Unless the reforms are wage cuts, pensions and redundancies. They represent the enemies of populism, but they base their opposition rhetoric and strategy on most extreme populism. The political speech and all the political initiatives of the New Democracy of Mitsotakis are based on the newspaper headlines, on the newspapers of the interactive and yellow press. Sometimes, however, it goes too far for this party to blame for the left and for windows for offshore on the left, when even today there is no list, which is not the name of Mr Papastavrous in. And of course, this challenge was not going to be left unanswered. But let us see what this provision was, which created so much noise and these hypocritical abominations. It was a provision that clearly provided, in line with international good practice, for which countries it was prohibited to have any trade in any political person. We regulated, on the basis of GRECO's recommendations, a ban, which sounded beautiful in the ears, but it was totally wasteful, to the extent that it was not clear what these countries were and ended up with mathematical accuracy - as the past has shown many times - in constant acquittals. And what, then, was the dreadful blow we have done? We chose a method that wouldn't leave a window so it could drop any case. However, a great helmet has risen. The opposition, assisted or guided - I will say - from a well-known media, has tried to distort reality and leave gaps to the moral status of this government, but by creating, with this propaganda, another wound to the political system against public opinion. And this is an unacceptable tactic. Because if the goal is to confront the government and counterpopulation, some do not understand that in this way the only ones who strengthen are those who have chosen to be on the extreme right of the political spectrum and to accuse the political system. The logic, of course, is not that Separate Anti-Policy is pure and undefiled. They don't say it. They say, "You too are the same as us." That's what they want to go through to the Greek people. And who wins from this? The logic that everyone's in the gutter. Everyone's in that gutter. So this couldn't be left unanswered. So we are coming today precisely so that there is absolutely no shadow created by the rivals of populism, no shadow over the political system and no shadow over the government and the Members of the government of the majority, who are fighting for issues relating to the clashes, with the clearance. And we are bringing an optimisation of the previous regulation, indeed in an absolute way, will say too much. But only with excesses can one respond to mud and vulgarity. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And so we say that no politicians will have the right to participate from now on, not only in non-cooperating, outside companies, as they say, but in any company abroad, anywhere in the world, whether it has a preferential tax rate or not. This is because we cannot tolerate as a political system, not just as a government, another wound to the political system. Whoever is exposed to politics, then, either as a Member of Parliament or as a bourgeois power by government or local government, let him have his activities for as long as he is exposed to commons only within the territory. Clear solutions, clear words for everyone, and let everyone face their responsibilities. That's what we suggested. And the question is: Why did the New Democracy run away? Two are the possible reasons: either because they realised that they would have huge losses in the roll-call vote, which they would be exposed, or because they are running to prevent the sixty-day deadline, to declare their participation in equity capital of foreign companies. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So to finish this story. We have nothing to fear, because we are not kept by anyone in his pocket, because they are not our agents on the various lists, they are not our members in Panama papers, nor in the calendars of Mr Christoforkos nor in the payrolls of “SIEMENS” and the multinationals who destroyed the country and succumbed to the future of the Greek people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We are here on the forefront and we are giving an honorable struggle, so that the Greek people and the Greek society will regain their height, an honorable struggle for the Greek people, in the conditions of bankruptcy that we did not create. And this honorable race we will continue to give him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u241	Madam President, please speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u242	Mr Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that what characterizes the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - and I am sorry to say this - is a great deal of courage. And let me tell you why: There's a provision. If that provision is correct, the government must continue to defend it and it has no reason to retreat because some newspapers condemn it. Parenthesis: Among the newspapers that criticize her is the newspaper AUSIS. What about that antipopulation instrument? The parentheses are closed. One thing, then, is that the government must either insist on this provision or apologise to both the Delegation and the Greek people. Now, for the other things we have heard, and thankfully the Prime Minister did not say so himself - unless I lost the first minutes of his speech, on a moral advantage recorded in DNA - several of those who are being persecuted today and some of whom are in prison and are Ministers have said the theory of moral DNA before. There's no moral DNA in politics. ‘Everything is proven in practice, in government decisions, in day-to-day policy. What do we say? We are saying clearly that politicians cannot have offshore companies, they cannot have a hidden business, and here we all agree. But if we go to an excess, as the Prime Minister himself called and said that we are going to an extreme, excessive arrangement, where is the trap? The trap is-- and you know it-- it'll swallow and we'll go back from scratch. He's going down to the constitutional courts, he's going down to the European courts and we're going back from scratch. It is inappropriate that the Prime Minister of a parliamentary regime should speak and say that 'we are taking an excessive, extreme provision'. To cover what? And there's a question. The government wanted to regulate the offshore issue. He's not a lawman, and we're not going to be today. I ask: this very important case that has dealt with the Greek people so much, why has it not been consulted so little, why has it not gone to the committees of Parliament, the Commission 'from now on'? People who keep working to give their opinion on this provision. So there was a provision that you should accept that either it is a product of wicked processing or it is a product of irrelevance. Choose one of the two: Defend or apologize and take it back. We, the river, say something else. As far as the country's political personnel are concerned - and here I am referring not only to the Members, I refer to the ministers, the mayors, the Secretary-General, all those who have been posted and run the political things of the country - should not be their main statements abroad. If there is no regulation, then there must be a commitment from the parliamentary groups that the main statements cannot be taken abroad. And I say, "Ladies," to deal with this little dialogue that starts and becomes, that if anyone has twenty grand to study his child, should he not have them? Of course, he has it, but his main statements should be in the country. Our ideas cannot be in the country and our statements can be abroad. [[Applause from the river wing]] In conclusion, because it is not planned for us all to make long positions, we are calling on the government at the very first time to clash with corruption and complexity. It was the spirit of our first speech in February 2015 here in Parliament. But the decisions you make, Mr. Tsipras, are fragmentary. Two months ago, on 29 March, in the House - you remember - you referred to thirteen cases, which bear witness to conflict and corruption. What did you do? Apart from denouncing it at that time to collect a handful of applause, what did you do? We are therefore calling for concrete action and we are open to any dialogue, which will face a cancer of politics, which follows political life from post-policy to this day, and unfortunately also seems to be following your own state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, too. The President has asked for the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u245	Madam President, I did not know that when Mr Mitsotakis leaves the Chamber, he leaves Mr Theodorakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Nevertheless, I will respond to what he said, because his position was another plea in New Democracy. [[Noise from the river Wing]] Yeah, I heard you carefully, don't interrupt. The Greek people have understood you, I don't have to go against you. Once again, you have come here to swipe between a reason that seems to be serious, documented and calm to populism. And I'll explain why. If I remember correctly, Mr Theodorakis, you too voted in favour of this regulation, the terrible and scandalous amendment that we have brought, and indeed without anyone having understood anything, so as to open up a so-called window for politicians in offshore companies abroad. You voted in favour of it. However, you were one of the first - the Potami - to make announcements for three days of extreme populism, denounceing SYRIZA, as of course the New Republic of Mitsotakis, who ran away today and PASOK...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u246	We didn't vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u247	Yeah, you didn't vote. That's why you at least have a firm position. And the Centro Association, which also denounced, was at PARON, if I'm not mistaken. You who voted in favour, as if nothing had happened, were out in the next few days, so you too - do not lose! - the dance of populism. So here's who the Left wants to favour the possibility of offshore, because it's hiding some. And you came here today as an attorney of the apostos, to tell us what? That the amendment that we voted on was correct, and now we are wrong, why are we exaggerating? Then why did you report us for three days? What exactly are you coming to tell us? You tell us, Mr Theodorakis, that it will swallow, precisely because it is excessive. And I wonder who's going to resort to suppressing? Anybody from here? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But while you are telling us that this regulation, which we are bringing today, will be suppressing the honour and reputation of the political system - so I say that you are wrestling, you are slandering between so-called serious political criticism and populism - you are also putting the populist proposal to remove the possibility of anyone having money abroad as well. This won't swallow. That is, you tell us, in a European Union country not to have the right of someone who is studying their child abroad to have money in a bank there. That will not be suppressed, but the proposal that we are putting before us will be suppressed in order to leave every, but every, suspicion over the political system. Mr. Theodorakis, I see that you want to answer. You can answer as much as you like, one thing I'll say and I'll never speak again. This government and I personally are not going to 'done fly on our sword' on ethical issues. On moral issues, "no fly in the sword"! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The moral advantage, the old political system, or in forty years, cannot recover it from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u248	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Theodorakis, would you like me to give the floor to Mr. Leventis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u250	I'm asking something specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u251	You want the floor now? Good! Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u252	The Flight case, especially these days, not to say it, Prime Minister. You said the same thing about the memorials, that you would smash them with a law and that you would “not accept a fly in the sword”. What you're doing, we know. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Look out! Two specific answers: I would like, despite your tiredness, to be more careful when your opponents talk and not just listen to your friends and the papers they give you. We didn't say that there would be a legitimisation. We have said that there will be a commitment from the parliamentary groups, therefore also from the SYRIZA, that the main statements made by Members cannot be abroad. Do it, do it! We've been doing it, and we've said it for three days. I do not know if a number of Members and some of your ministers will agree, some of them your ministers remember having problems with you 'possibly' and a special decision of the committee was required to overcome them. Now, the final, for what you are causing me: the River does not need 'bad' loans. You don't need old bad policy loans. The loans of old bad policy have been made by SYRIZA. You say about us, whether we consult or make up for the old, and I tell you that you have people of Aki Chohatzopoulos, people who have been persecuted, who have stolen political money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u253	Please, ladies and gentlemen, calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u254	Who? Say one, at least!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u255	Please, cool!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u256	Madam President, I ask for the floor on staff! Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u257	Now tell us names!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u258	Mr Theodorakis, when you say these, you must, if you want, say names or withdraw because there is a problem! Mr. Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u259	He's offended us all! Apologise! Madam President, I ask for the floor on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u260	Calm down, gentlemen! Mr. Theodorakis, now listen to your position...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Theodorakis, we want you to say a name in front of the Greek citizens!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u262	Madam President, I ask for the floor on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u263	You ask the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u264	Madam President, to withdraw! It is a requirement of the whole parliamentary group!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u265	Please, ladies and gentlemen, calm down. Mr. Theodorakis, please help the process a little, because the Greek people are listening to us. [[Strong protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me speak! Either withdraw what you said or say a name that, in your opinion, has these problems. There's nothing else I can do!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u266	Madam President, it violates the ethics of the House! Getting the floor to withdraw!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u267	I will ask for a two-minute interruption so that we can calm down and move on to the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u268	Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u269	It's not going to solve the problem with the interruption!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u270	It can't be done on these terms. It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u271	We want the situation to get a little off the ground. Mr Theodorakis heard the request.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u272	Madam President, we want this to be resolved!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u273	He can't insult...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u274	Let go of it. I'm asking for a two-minute break.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u275	Please, sit down and everyone down to get started. Finally, that's not the case!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u276	Madam President, it is relapsed. It's an insult! He's done it before, telling us unpaid!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Papadopoulos, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u278	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u279	Calm down. What do you want, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u280	Madam President, I am very sorry that the President who was about to speak, but we must - and believe me, we are in a difficult position, we do not want to raise any question - on the rules of parliamentary ethics, but also on democracy to ask Mr Theodorakis or Mr Potami - that we do not want to create any tension - because something might have been said at the edge of the speech as a malignant mouth, to withdraw or in any case to be named. Otherwise, we are obliged to state that the position of the President of the river was false or slanderous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u281	I mean, it's not slandering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u282	But I think we can - and I can - qualitatively, because today we are opening up an important chapter of our country's fight against corruption, to resolve this issue without tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u283	A proposal was made by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Because Mr Theodorakis is absent, but there is the Parliamentary spokesman for the River, if, Mr Dannelly, you want to say something about it - because, as you know, Members have heard these days too much and collective responsibility when it comes to it, it creates issues and we need to be careful - say it, to see how we will proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u284	We must be calm and avoid any populism and any hypocrisy in the difficult times that we are all going through. Mr. Theodorakis is here, and I imagine he will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Theodorakis, you heard what was said. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u286	I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that some are surprised by a truth which is reflected in specific names. And the truth is that Aki Chohazopoulou's main partners in prison are officials at the moment of the SYRIZA Government, whether in ministerial positions - some - or in SYRIZA, or in the office of Prime Minister. These are issues that are not first said. We've been through this before, and the majority of Members know it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u287	Who? Say names!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u288	Mr Theodorakis, as long as you cannot say anything specific, I will ask that your previous position be deleted from the Minutes. Each judges what you say. It can't be done! Mr President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u289	Madam President, the President of the Potamos was given the opportunity to say something very simple, that he said a word more at the edge of his speech. But he insists. Because in his position he did not say in general and vaguely, as in the second phase, that there were PASOK officials. All PASOK officials were partners at the time, worked with the top government of PASOK, Mr. Tsohatopoulos. I don't know if that's the steak. But he said in his position, which raised the storm of protests, that officials, who have even been convicted for stealing, like Mr Tsohatzopoulos, are today at SYRIZA and are Ministers. This is slander, Madam President. And when we called him to say names, instead of admitting that he made a mistake at the door of his speech, he confirmed the slander in the worst way. Mr. Theodorakis, I have nothing to say. I'm just so sorry for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u290	In any case - there are schools here and we are being watched - I have made this proposal, Mr Theodorakis, because it is insulting, to be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u291	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u292	No, it's all inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u293	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u294	What exactly do you want? What do you want, Mr. Kegeroglu? Would you like me to put it to the vote? It's my authority, and I suggest that and it's over. Mr. Leventis, before I give you the floor, I'll welcome a school. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how to operate, thirty-three students and apprentices and five educational attendants from the Municipal School of Varapetro Chania and the Municipal School of Batsio Andros. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u295	Madam President, tell me about the lady here... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u296	Please. Let it go. There is now no other reason to escalate the spirits. Let it go. Mr. Leventis has been interrupted two or three times. Mr. Leventis, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u297	We'll see. I don't want too much. About fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u298	We're not all the same at last! You put the mud in the fan and it turns!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u299	Please, Mr. Comrade. Calm down. What's the case now, and we're so tense? Please. Mr. Leventis, I'll give you ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u300	Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u301	But the other leaders spoke for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u302	They've had more trouble than fifty-five. If we put in trouble, I need to talk for two hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u304	Madam President, Mr President of the Government, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the tension you are causing is not a sign of good developments. If you believe that at this critical moment, the country is being helped by tensions, you are being misled. If you also believe that investors will come by listening to these things, then you are and are naive by those who believe it. The Prime Minister brought in a provision the other day, which was allowed to be political in offshore. Allowed. And the whole House voted for it. I think Mr Theodorakis also voted for this provision. That's what they told me. We did not vote as a Centro Association, but I found that the provision to allow politicians to have offshore companies, you voted for it, SYRIZA, ANEL, Theodorakis. I don't know what PASOK did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u305	No, Mr. President. You know what PASOK did, but you don't say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u306	What did he do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u307	She voted against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u308	Did he vote against?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u310	In any case, if you vote against, you are right to do and have your conscience quietly. So from a provision whereby everything is allowed, we come to another provision to ban everything from the same government. When was he right? So what did he want? What was the right thing to do? One House will allow everything and then three days to forbid it all. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Will you let me talk? If you have become troubled by the Members, I am sorry on your behalf. How do we hear you calmly and nicely? How did we hear Mr. Tsipra quietly? Has anyone spoken from the Centroon Association? Has anyone been excavated?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u311	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u312	Let go of you, sir, now! We know you, too. You're here for trouble. But in your region, you don't dare go! In your district, I want some sluts! One House, therefore, allows everything and then three days later the same House forbids it all. Does Mr. Tsipras think that this law will not go down to the European Courts, especially when it also places relatives? He doesn't think he's gonna swallow? This provision you brought is "photography" for the Mitsotakis family. You shouldn't have done that, I'm the one who knows. It is not nice to vote in the House on rules of vengeance unless revenge is your way of doing it. That's my opinion. I know that the Mitsotakis family is also responsible for the tragedy of Cyprus and for the dictatorship and everything that has happened. But I will never let myself be blamed for vengeance, make a law to exterminate a family. If you have any arguments, then destroy politics in another way. That's how you raise it, you heroize it. That's my opinion. If you believe that this provision you are going through now - particularly with relatives - will remain, what can I say? Ask a lawyer who knows a few legal things. He'll swallow right up. And I do not understand why Mr Tsipras should charge this provision as an avenge. He didn't need it. On the one hand, you are asking for a consensus, Mr Tsipras, and on the other hand, you are leading to a deepening of your energy. What you're doing isn't in your interest either. On the one hand, you say that we are entering into development in the second half of the year, and on the other hand you are emptying Parliament's seat. If you're glad that the seats are empty, I'm telling you this reminds you of other times. The President of the Potamius said his views that some of Chohazopoulou's associates are next to you. Whether it's Chochazopoulou's or not, the old PASOK is inside you, not next to you. Inside you, Mr. Tsipras, the old PASOK. I return to Troizonia, Grevenna, Thessaloniki, Crete. All the prefectures of the old PASOK have joined your ranks. Now, if specifically not some persecuted with Chohatzopoulos, there are others who coexist in the time of Chohatzopoulos. Why do you think they came to you? Why have you been resented? Why did they love you? I'll tell you why they're here. To save their possessions. The PASOK voters when they saw that PASOK was transformed into a right-wing party, came to you to protect their pitfalls and their acquired assets. And you accepted them with love to become a government. And now, of course, all this world, on your new course, which is more right in the New Democracy, which is now missing - I do not think you can doubt that the Greek people consider you to be more right and Samaras with all that you have signed - they are heavy. Isn't that right? They came to protect the public, themselves, their double, their triple pensions, in general their privileges. I wonder whether the Prime Minister has made an assessment of where some hard people in his environment and the Chief of the New Democracy have done the same, his self-criticism. Because today the political system needs unity and you all confess it. I have heard the Prime Minister often say that he wants consent. What consensus does he want? By making provisions for his opponents to have a problem? Is that consensus? That kind of consensus he wants? Did you offer it to you, Mr. Tsipras, when Gigakis ruled PASOK and when Samaras ruled? Did you offer this consensus you're asking for? No, you didn't offer it, and you're accountable! Now you've mutated into a realist policy that wants to privatize, which signifies everything, that cuts wages from the world, that cuts things out. Real politician. First, what was your name? I would like you to name yourself six years old. Give a definition of yourself! You have an obligation to the people to whom you were telling these slogans. If you are realistic today and have had delusion for many years, call yourself. What does the historian have to record for you, for the six years you have eaten from Greece, for raising the black holes that you destroyed, for which the world believed in you that you would cut off the debt and keep talking about debt cuts? [[Rejections and noise from SYRIZA Wing]] And I'd warned about the debt that it wouldn't cut a single euro. Debt transferment will take place. And in the letter I sent you, Mr Tsipras, I told you that two are the solutions to save Greece: to return the deposits of the Greeks and, secondly, to convince Merkel to send fifty-sixty industrialists to put 'plate', to invest in Greece and to transfer bonds that expire over the next decade. These were the solutions which you are now looking for and which I myself indicated on the day of the elections in the letter I sent you. And I wonder why he needed so much imagination and so much effort to end up in my own seats! [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the President of the Union of Centres hits the warning bell.]] I asked for 15 minutes, Madam President. However, I think you're on the wrong track. It's not a recipe for acidification. It is not a recipe to make photographic provisions for your opponents. It's not nice to come in one day to acquit and allow offshore and the next day to forbid everything. These mutations are vengeful, they are unphilosophical and they also show pettyness. And I think that within SYRIZA there are serious people and I wonder why they let you report to such an extent. The 2010 Act was sufficient. Wasn't he enough? Did you have any evidence that he wasn't sufficient?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u313	Lots of evidence!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u314	Did you have any clues about someone? So you also bring the evidence you ask Mr. Theodorakis. Bring the evidence, too, for whom the law was not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u315	I did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u316	You're serious, with the same seriousness you deserve from your opponent. Show it to you, only to yell at you know! I would like to say that the people who are cutting their wages and pensions are listening. And I said it was a donkey that the House would not cut anything off from itself and the people would see everything cut off from him. Is that nice, Prime Minister? Since you had so much mania that politicians don't have offshore, why don't you have the same mania to cut half the Members' wages, so that you can manage to get in front of the people and say "the power made its own sacrifices, now do yourself, people, yours"? Politics, Mr. Tsipras, wants you to look at the people. And you, behind the cops and the crabs that guard you, fear the people. But the people are there. He is the one who voted for you, the 35% that has now become 17%. It is the people who voted for you. Instead, you cannot be so unfamiliar, Mr. Tsipras! You have an obligation to apologize to the people. You told him a lot and you didn't do anything. And you say 'will, will, will'. Well, these are my last words. This House has destroyed its image. Please be very warm to finish with the House, Mr Tsipras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Kammenos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u318	What do you mean by'stop with the House'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u319	To finish an election, I mean, gentlemen. You don't want elections? Before you asked for elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u320	And universal, not junta!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u321	No, Mr. Kammenos! Not to do a junta. For a junta you're closer than me, much closer than me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u322	I think Mr. Leventis has a point. We should also see those who sold channels, who bought them, how they paid and where the money is and how some people got the licenses. It's a chance to explore everything. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Today, of course, in the House, I think a title can be inserted: "The wing is broken, the evil of its head". For it is demonstrated from the end of this debate that this government here is ready to face every challenge. I want to remind the Greek people of something. We have heard Mr Theodorakis speak of Tsohatopoulos' partners in this government. Who sent Chochazopoulou and the submarine case? Who then supported the entire PASOK government? When we fought here, in the House, on the subject of submarines, on the TOR - M1 case in the Committees of Inquiry, Mr Theodorakis was an ordinance of Mr Papantoniou. That's the truth. If they have names, give them to us. Eighteen cases of armaments from this government went to the prosecutor, and this is the first time prosecutions were carried out and gun dealers were confiscated. This is the first time that money has been charged to companies that harmed the Greek State for armaments. As far as the issue of supra-state companies and offshore is concerned, it is time for everyone to assume their responsibility. New Democracy cannot be asked to have a moral advantage when it continues to defend Mr Papastavrous. If Mr Mitsotakis - and I turn to Mr Leventis - wanted to stand out from the Samara - Venizelos regime, he should first stop defending Mr Papastavros, because this defensive line that New Democracy acquired in Samaras for whatever the PASOK governments, the Chochazopoulou, the Papantoniou and so on continues today. They passed provisions to acquit for the submarines. They went through together. He wanted to end up with this Mr. Mitsotakis. Let's work together for the Panama papers. Can I tell you something? The Greek people know what's going on, there's nothing hidden. They've opened their mouths now. They know who has the sign of "SIEMENS", instead of playing with the National Greece. Our obligation here, however, in this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, and in the opposition parties, but also in particular the parties that support the government, is to reopen them and give them responsibility, not only criminal responsibilities - of course, criminal - but above all civil responsibilities and political responsibilities. While Greeks' wages have been cut over the last five years by 50%, and this government is fighting to keep a single euro from being cut, there is no way that people can continue to be tax-free abroad. If there is any suspicion about the political world, we have the opportunity to take a measure: to abolish parliamentary immunity and retroactively. It takes two hundred votes. Let's agree. We've brought it up several times. I ask that we do so if we fully want to respond to the call of the Greek people. That's what the government did today. With the lifting of any reservation on offshore policies, regardless of whether they are in paradise or not, which means that the co-operating countries have provided the data, it is moving on to one of the above measures. Let us open up everything, let us look at the cases, and those who insist on supporting the companies of offshore and the products of theft of the Greek people, let them not leave the Chamber. Let them stay here and be judged by the Greek people in the 2019 elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u323	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u324	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u325	What would you like, Mr. Leventis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u326	Madam President, Mr Kammenos left some suggestions for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u327	I've been talking in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u328	Did you generally talk or leave implied? You said something about channels that closed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u329	I talked about the channel you sold and you are now holding offshore companies. You know that, don't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u330	Is the channel offshore a company owner?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u331	The channel is owned by offshore companies. He got ads from Media Shop, got reinforcements after you sold it. I think you should be interested in opening this up and seeing who bought it, how much they bought it, where the money came from and where it is today. I have called on you in this Chamber to cooperate and to accept that the audit will proceed in all these cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u332	Other things I thought you said. But the essential thing here, Mr. Tsipras, is that you brought a law that you wanted offshore the other day and today...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Leventis, you said that. Now, you will not say any more incorporation of your words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u334	How will you explain that? So, are all perfectly justified? If you didn't bring anything, I wouldn't say anything. Papastaurou and all that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u335	The debate is being declared at the outset...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u336	Madam President, I have raised three issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u337	I don't understand. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u338	Madam President, I have raised three issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u339	They've been tacitly rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u340	No, no. You have not even answered a point of order, of which you are chairing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u341	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u342	With the speech of the Prime Minister, the criticism of a party that left does not change the content of our legislative work. Our legislative work is an object, that is to say, how the House will get back a guilty amendment that this House voted by a majority of ten days ago. We suggested...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u343	What does it say now, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u344	What amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Loverdo, it's just stuff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u346	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u347	You have made a proposal which has been tacitly rejected. If you want, you vote for it. If you don't want to, you don't vote for it. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u348	The fact that you changed three lines in three days, from the islands of Channel that were all allowed to "AGEY", the front page of which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u349	There is no way now that I will give you time to say what you have said for three hours again. That can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u350	That, Madam President, does not mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u351	Please, sit down. The debate on the first point of order is hereby
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u352	I'm not done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u353	Mr. Loverdos, I will not give you time to develop opinions. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u354	We have tabled a proposal. Whatever you do, I'll tell her. You will reject it and then you will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u355	It's over! You won't get the last reason. This time is over. What can I tell you? If you'd like, let Mrs. Gennamas know. You have no right. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u356	I am a parliamentary representative and have the right to speak. We've made suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u357	You have no right. This is the end of the process. I'm closing the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u358	The President of the Democratic Alliance is missing and I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u359	And what do we do? A lot of people are gone. Others are gone. He's missing from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u360	You'll give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u361	What do you say, sir? What Rules of Procedure says this? Sit down. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u362	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u363	He spoke twice, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u364	Start yelling, Mr. Loverdo. I'll yell harder.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u365	There is no case, Madam President, for me to stop. I've made three suggestions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u366	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby terminated: 1. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan on matters of the European Union and other provisions’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the Agriculture Approximation to the European Union and other provisions’. 3. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Moldova on the approximation of Moldova to the European Union and other provisions’. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote of SYRIZA MPs on Amendment No 462/10, as amended by the Minister, of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Declaration of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the Approximation of Agriculture to the European Union and other provisions’, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u367	Madam President, we have made three proposals on what you say. There's no way they won't be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u368	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u369	Madam President, we have made proposals on what you say. You're breaking the procedure. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure. We have made three proposals on what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Loverdo, don't insist, there's no way. You guys go ahead. I'm on it, too. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I therefore read the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote. Mr. Famelos Socrates. Here you go. Mrs. Theophebetto Aphrodite. Here. Mr. Chogas George. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Peter. Here you go. Mr. Katsis Marios. Here you go. Mrs. Papanatziou Catherine. Here. Mr. Risulis Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Arachovitis Stavros. Here you go. Mr. Papadopoulos Nikos. Here you go. Mrs. Vanja Panayota. Here. Mr Baxvanakis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Pratsol Anastasios. Here you go. Mr. Excellency George. Here you go. Mr. Karanastasis Apostle. Here you go. Mr. Zabeck Hussein. Here you go. It's 15 already. I don't read the rest of the names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u371	Madam President, we have made a proposal on a point of order. I ask you to respect the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u372	Please, Mr. Loverdo. Please! There's a measure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u373	Madam President, on the vote our group has made two proposals and you must reject them. We've made you two suggestions. You must reject them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u374	Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10) minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u375	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u376	Madam President, we have made two proposals. We are talking about you in the Rules of Procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u377	There will be a roll-call vote on Amendment No 462/10 of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the Agriculture Approximation to the European Union and other provisions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u378	Madam President, a request has been made by the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u379	I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to accept this amendment. The non-acceptance of the amendment is said to be 'OH.' The voters say 'PARON'. MP Anastasia Gara is called on the list by SYRIZA and Mr Konstantinos Barriotas from Potami. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they state their vote on the principle and on the articles of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u380	Madam President, we have made proposals for the Rules of Procedure. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Loverdo, you have repeatedly made your country House. It's over! There's no request. I've moved on. The list will be read.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u382	We have been calling you for 10 minutes on the vote. It's a disgrace! For your vote, we are shouting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u383	We want to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u384	Sit down, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr. Loverdos doesn't want any reinforcement, he's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u385	Now I see a request from Mr. Venizelos here. Mr. Venizelo, I didn't see her before. Now we can't have that kind of conversation. The catalogue has been read. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Let's go, you'll tell them in other ways, next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u386	Madam President, you are wrong. It is about the vote. It is about the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u387	It's over. There's no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u388	Whatever you say, it concerns the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Loverdo, the list will now be read. There's no way. Do what you think. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u390	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u391	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the Second Elementary School of Atalantis Fthiotidas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also inform you that letters from colleagues Mr Konstantinos Zouraris, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou, Mr. Akaterini Markou, Mr. Jason Fotilila, Mr. Fofis Gennimatas and Mr. Georgios Arvanitides, who are absent and by letter know that if they were present they would vote "NAI". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u392	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u393	Until the count is completed, we proceed to vote on the remaining draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u394	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u395	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u396	As we had a point of order with Mrs Christophilopoulou, I have sent a letter of my own, signed by two colleagues, under which I would like a procedural explanation before the vote is completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u397	Let me tell you this. You submitted the request at the beginning. We have dealt with it in the Bureau and it is not acceptable. We shall proceed to the full today's vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u398	Listen to me, Mr. President. For the needs of our political relationship with the world, which has sent us here as a parliamentary group, we have made two proposals, Mr President. One proposal concerned the Minister for Justice. If he did not accept an amendment, which we said about paragraph 5, to separate the paragraphs in the article in question, which was also a roll-call vote. This was rejected without ever answering us, not by the Minister, by the parliamentary majority, which proposed the roll-call vote by someone from the Bureau. This is a parliamentary matter. The Minister could add a phrase and cover it. He didn't. He's got power. However, the Bureau of Parliament and the parliamentary majority, which puts forward a roll-call proposal, owe us an answer. This was not possible to articulate our argument. There is something else, Mr President. Politically speaking, he went to channels, went wherever you want and lost our subject. Our subject is a very serious one. The Greek people are watching us. We have lost the opportunity to separate the paragraphs and have resorted to the means of voting with a reservation, which is in the Minutes, is not for the result of the vote. The second point which we raised and which did not allow us to take the floor before the House with the Chamber. The vote on the whole, pursuant to Rule 104, will take place later on to see what was voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u399	Yeah, I know. You said it at first. We've talked about it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u400	But the Bureau of Parliament can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u401	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u402	...when it does not, Mr President, give him the opportunity for the Rules of Procedure to otherwise violate it so rawly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u403	Yeah, it's a practice that we're following...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u404	I'm closing my mind, Mr. President. To avoid reproach, you voted, and since we do not have the margin for one or two days, you lead us to withdraw from the second vote on the whole. And that is not right, but it is a matter of urgency because the Bureau is violating the Rules of Procedure. The President of the House was here. So, we're going to an organization of reproach against you? It's not right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u405	Good, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u406	We therefore need to make a complaint about the practice of the President of Parliament and the Bureau. We ask that it not to be repeated. Tomorrow morning, we have sanctions again. We'll have the same conversation again. Mr President, it sounds like they're coming in tomorrow. Are we going again? We are therefore asking you, now, because the wrong happened once again, not to happen tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u407	Good, Mr. Loverdo. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the resolution of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Creating the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan on European Union and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u408	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u409	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u410	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u411	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u412	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u413	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u414	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u415	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u416	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘The establishment of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan on matters of European Union and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u417	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u418	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u419	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u420	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u421	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u422	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u423	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u424	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u425	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the second paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u426	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u427	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u428	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u429	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u430	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u431	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u432	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u433	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u434	The second paragraph of Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 461 and a special number 9 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u435	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u436	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u437	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u438	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u440	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u441	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u442	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u443	Therefore, Amendment No 461 and a special 9 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u444	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u445	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u446	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u447	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u448	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u449	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u450	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u451	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u452	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Definition of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan on matters of the European Union and other provisions’ was accepted in principle, on articles and on the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u453	Here, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u454	This is the case we talked about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u455	Is this the big amendment for offshore?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u456	Oh, no. It is about voting on the bill as a whole, what you said you would abstain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u457	Yes, sir. Then we'll be away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u458	So you will abstain from the vote. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u459	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u460	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u461	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u462	The PASOK Democratic Compact - DIMAR is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u463	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u464	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u465	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u466	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u467	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Resolution of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan on matters of the European Union and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u468	We are entering the resolution of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Moldova on the approximation of Moldova to the European Union and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u469	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u470	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u471	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u472	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u473	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u474	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u475	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u476	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u477	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Strengthening the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Moldova on the approach of Moldova to the European Union and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u478	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u479	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u480	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u481	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u482	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u483	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u484	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u485	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u486	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the second paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u487	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u488	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u489	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u490	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u491	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u492	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u493	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u494	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u495	The second paragraph of Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 460 and a special number of 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u496	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u497	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u498	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u499	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u500	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u501	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u502	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u503	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u504	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 460 and a special 8 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u505	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u506	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u507	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u508	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u509	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u510	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u511	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u512	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u513	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Strengthening the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the European Integration of the Republic of Moldova on the approach of Moldova to the European Union and other provisions’ was accepted in principle, under Articles and on the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u514	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u515	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u516	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u518	The PASOK Democratic Compact - DIMAR is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u519	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u521	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u522	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u523	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Resolution of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration of the Republic of Moldova on the approach of Moldova to the European Union and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate, in principle, of articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u524	We are entering the resolution of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Georgia's approach to the European Union". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u525	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u526	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u527	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u528	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u529	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u530	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u531	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u532	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u533	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Greece on Georgia's approach to the European Union" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u534	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u535	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u536	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u537	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u538	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u539	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u540	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u541	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u542	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the second paragraph as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u543	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u544	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u545	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u547	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u548	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u549	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u550	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u551	The second paragraph of Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 459 and a special 7 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u552	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u553	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u554	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u555	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u557	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u558	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u559	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u560	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 459 and a special 7 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u561	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the vote in this House. A total of 197 Members voted. In favour of Amendment No 462 and a special 10 of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 190 Members. Against Amendment No 462 and a special 10 of the draft law, namely 'NO', no one voted. They voted for 7 MPs. Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 462 and a special 10 was accepted as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote, and is part of the bill as the same article, in accordance with the protocol on roll-call voting below.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u562	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u563	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u564	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u565	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u566	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u567	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u568	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u569	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u570	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u571	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Greece on the approach of Georgia to the European Union and other provisions" was accepted in principle, articles and amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u572	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u574	The New Democracy is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u575	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u576	The PASOK Democratic Compact - DIMAR is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u577	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u578	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u579	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u580	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u581	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Georgia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Greece on the Approximation of Agriculture in the European Union and other provisions" was accepted by a majority in only one debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole of it and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u582	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u583	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-01-S1-commons.u584	With the consent of this House at 16.03 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 2 June 2016 at 9.30 p.m. on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions and b) legislative work, in accordance with the supplementary agenda distributed.
