ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 9 May 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 8222/25-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the exclusion of the country's railway network. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food and Finance on measures to compensate farmers and restore crops and infrastructure from the fire caused by 21-4-2016 in the areas of the East and Myrtos of the Municipality of Ierapetra. Lassithi Crete. 3. The 834-26-2016 topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the delay of a visa application in Russia. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the "delay in implementing development reforms - "Lista Stathaki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the irregular reductions in aid, the necessary extension of the deadline for the submission of the Single Aid Application for 2016 and the right to submit objections to the definitive rights. 3. The question asked by MP Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning complaints concerning the use of the services of the Municipality of Saronicos, on the electoral needs of the president of the Local Organisation of N.D. 4. The Question No 810/19-4-2016 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the provisions of the draft law on the recruitment of substitute teachers. 5. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the excessive debits of the banks, which the Ministry of Finance tolerates. 6. The Question No 806/19-4-2016 by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance about the Greek Vehicle Industry (‘EL.VO S.A.’). 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 811/19-4-2016 by MP Athens, Nea Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the financing of the 2007-2013 ESDP projects in danger. 8. The question by No 798/18-4-2016 of the President of Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Ministers for Economy, Development and Tourism concerning non-performing loans. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 37844/267/8-32016 by MP B' Athens, George Amyras, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the government's delay in the promotion of actions and the development of broadband by depriving 1.5% of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The sixth question will be discussed under number 801/19-4-2016 by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks, Dimitrios Kammenos, on the removal of the titles of property from a hundred to twenty-three Greek families in the village of Dramadas of Himaras. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr. President. Happy birthday. Minister, many years. The issue is extremely serious and needs national diplomatic action. There have been complaints, as I say - not to read all the details of the questions - and the question tabled in the Minutes, that a hundred twenty-three Greek families have fallen victim to illegally confiscating their properties in the village of Dramadas in the region of Himara. Their property has been seized by the Albanian State or has also been cancelled. For example, after the cancellation of property rights, property is returned to the state, which can be granted to the free-of-market fund, which will be granted to Albanian nationals whose properties were seized by the communist regime or granted to Albanian investors for EUR 1, on the basis of the tourism development law. After the successful experimental efforts of the Albanian state to remove the property titles of the Greek families of Chimara, such as the Nasturi and Kyritsis families, and the absence of mass reactions from the local communities, the snatching of the properties of the Greek families of Chimara is now under way. In view of the above, you ask, Mr. Minister: How do you intend to deal with the issue that has arisen so that, on the one hand, Greek families can be protected and, on the other hand, the Greek element is retained in Albania's villages? Secondly, why has the state not reacted to a similar move by the Albanian government to remove ownership titles from the Nasturis and Kyritsis families, so that they now look forward to mass cancellations? And thirdly, how do you plan to avoid such movements in the future and in other villages in the country that are intended to reduce the Greek population in the region? I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u3	The State Secretary for Foreign Affairs will answer Mr Amanatidis. Please, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for the timely question. It is an opportunity to clear up and to hear some things about the issues you refer to in your question. I would like to say to you that we are monitoring the issue without delay and with particular attention and taking into account developments related to the return procedure of property expropriated from the Hodja regime in neighbouring Albania. It is understandable that our interest is focused in particular on the property rights of our relatives. I would like to stress - and we stress it at every opportunity - that dealing with the property problems with full respect for the rights of the Greek national minority in its property is also a prerequisite for the further development of our bilateral relations and the deepening of bilateral cooperation. The recent communication by the Municipality of Chimaras on the ongoing administrative examination against a significant number of residents of the Himara Dymandes on the legality of the Greek minority's ownership titles, concerns the feasibility and objectives of the Greek minority. The legal framework on which the actions of the Albanian administration have been based and the further legal consequences of this is currently being examined, of course, in the light of the protection of the rights of the Greek national minority and the prevention of any arbitrariness against it. We also consider it important for a coordinated and legally documented response to the leadership of the minority that is currently taking place. For our part, the Greek diplomatic authorities are following the evolution of the issue and its possible consequences to the Greeks in the region. In my denture I will tell you more about the political issue, how it is dealt with and what we have to do with Albania at the moment. As you know, they also participated in a quadrumer, which took place in Thessaloniki the previous period. And, of course, that's where the refugee issues came in. We also agreed with everyone that this cooperation should be carried out on a regular basis. However, on these issues and the conditions that we have set ourselves, I shall refer to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. Mr Kammenos again has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is encouraging that the Greek Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs follow closely the developments of our relatives, the Greeks of Albania. There is a flagrant violation of human rights, a flagrant violation of the Charter of Human Rights and of all the frameworks of Europe, which it wants to be part of. The property regime is the right of every citizen, every country, to the extent that the Greeks who lived there. I will say two things about the Minutes, about what is happening and where the Albanian Government is relying on the seizure. The project to remove property securities is based on Laws 9948/2008 ‘Laws on legality and ownership controls’ and Law 7501/1991 ‘Agricultural land’. The first is to justify control, while the second is used for the issue of these property titles. For example, in the village of Drumadas and in many other villages of Chimara when the two years 1992-1993 began to share the rural land of the agricultural cooperative under Law 7501, which I mentioned earlier, the inhabitants decided to return the land to the families of the village that they held in the past before they had to hand it over in 1956 to the agricultural cooperative, which was then created by the communist regime. To return the earth in this way, however, it would have to disregard some of the restrictions imposed by Albanian law 7501. Specifically - and it is important - only those who were resident of the village before 1 August 1991 can take agricultural land under this law. This excludes the inhabitants of the village who left the cooperative and moved during the dictatorship, as well as the heirs of those who died in the village during the same period. Here I should also mention that similar problems - which, of course, do not relate to your specialty but should be mentioned - have the Orthodox Church of Albania under the worthy Bishop Anastasios, where many properties of the Churches of the Holy Archdiocese there have been confiscated. Also, many have been termed "cultural sites" in a poor manner and strategy and aim to expropriate them. Also, in many cultural works on the Greek churches, the Albanian public intervenes to reconstruct or sustain them, under this pretext. And since the public is involved for cultural reasons, property will be seized by the Greek Orthodox Church of Albania in the future. I would like the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the future of our relations. Because apart from immigration, Albania is a neighboring country. We're starting with the AOZ. We had started with what happened in the '90s. These people came to Greece. They've been very helpful. They made too much money. Greece hosted them. These people illegally made billions in Albania. That's not what you're talking about. However, I am saying this in support of the good relations we had with the neighbouring country. And these diplomatic relationships should continue rather than come to the point that human rights, not Greek citizens and Greek expatriates, are being violated. I'll testify for the Minutes and a list, as it has been released and sent to me, with the names of the relatives whose properties are currently seized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Amanatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much. First of all, for the list you're going to deliver and for which we're going to be aware, I'm going to give you two clues. One is that in the recent return visit by the Albanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the visit by Mr Kotzias to Albania on 21 March, it was decided and a mechanism for monitoring the course of bilateral cooperation was established. As regards, of course, the issues you raised concerning religious freedoms, but also the things that have been done with the sacred buildings and objects that exist, we have then made several protests on this issue. We have informed the international and regional organisations and raised the issue at the European Union delegation in Tirana. We've had a lot of successive announcements. In fact, a protest was sent to Mrs Mogerini herself, in which we pointed out the most important issue that clearly affects the European values of the rule of law and religious freedoms. The answer we have had from Mrs Mogerini is that the issue is closely monitored by the European Union delegation in Tirana in the context of Albania's accession process, given that safeguarding religious freedom is a fundamental right of extraordinary importance for the European Union. What we are doing, namely, is that, firstly, we are following the matter in a coordinated manner, in the judicial way and the legally substantiated answer that can be found. Secondly, with targeted interventions, both bilaterally and within the framework of the European Union and other regional forums, such as the OSCE and the Council of Europe, we take care, above all, to highlight the minority dimension of the ownership issue in the neighbouring country. Let me remind you that following Albania's signing and ratification of the European Convention on Human Rights on 2-10-1996, there is an international legal obligation, an obligation on that country to respect the right to property, and corresponding obligations stem from the framework agreement on the protection of the national minorities of the Council of Europe. Albania has recently acquired the status of a candidate for membership of the European Union with Greece's firm support. We therefore consider that its consistency in respect of its commitments and in fact contractual, is a precondition for its European course. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to know in this House that a total of seven questions will be discussed and ten questions will not be discussed for various reasons which I will be presenting to you. The seventh question under number 797/18-4-2016 is therefore not discussed in the seventh question of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the risk of losing grants from the European Union financial institutions to help refugees due to the lack of competence of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I would like to ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u11	I'll give it to you as soon as I'm done. Also, the first under number 820/25/42016, the first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Eleftherios Ausgenakis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the harmonisation with the international regulations on the cycling of HEMEs, is not discussed due to the impediment of the questioner. The third question under number 833/26-2016 of a second question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the VW car scandal will not be discussed, after consultation of the Member in question with the relevant Minister. The following questions will not be discussed as a result of a failure by the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The third, under number 831/26-2016, is a top-level question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence, on the problems of the refugee and migrant accommodation area in Skaramaga, due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction Mr. Musala. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The fourth under number 819/25-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr.Kossakolis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on late single applications for support from farmers for the year 2015, the incorrect digitisation of agricultural parcels of growers integrated into agri-environment programmes and the problems created by the technical solution given in 2014 for the distribution of public eligible areas of pasture, the responsibility of OPEKEPE, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The fifth under number 825/254-2016 topical question for the first cycle of Piraeus, Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health, concerning the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metaxas, is not discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis. The fifth under number 799/19-4-2016 topical question of the second cycle of MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Health, concerning the needs of the Artificial Nebula Unit of the General Hospital of Halkidiki, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The tenth under number 708/28-3-2016 topical question of the second cycle of MP Fthiotida of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health, on the question of dealing with the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia, is not being discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second question under number 826/254-2016 of the second cycle of the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the timetable for repayment of late public debts, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth under number 829/254-2016 is a topical question of the second cycle of the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the old debt of EUR 90 million in urban buses, due to the previous administrations, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. You said, Mr President, that my question under number 797 will not be answered because of the lack of competence of the Minister to whom it is addressed. Unfortunately, this is completely inaccurate and for the reason that - I am going to use this expression unfortunately - the government on this issue is playing the bell. What do I mean? I asked her the same question to the Minister for Finance, who is allegedly responsible for Mr Stathakis on 11 April, with number 777 and I shall submit it to the Minutes. It was identified to be discussed in the topical questions, according to the report, on April 18, 2016, and there I was informed by the Minister of Finance that it was the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism. What's the matter? The issue concerns the management of European Union funds. I said, if they say so, they probably say so. However, I already have a document from the Minister for Development, which I shall submit, which says, Mr President, 'we are not competent, it is the Ministry of Finance'. Parliamentary control is sacred, it is a democratic function of the House. So what if the ministers start saying 'it is not my responsibility' and the other one returns it? Let them find a solution or answer it. Members cannot be insulted and degraded in this way, saying the ministers did not have the ability to direct a properly timely question. I have documents, Mr President, that I have initiated the procedure legally, that I complain about the behaviour of the government at this point and I would ask you to submit to the Minutes to take account of them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u13	You're right, Mr. Carras, no doubt with your protest. I wonder if you should submit this to the Ministry of the Interior, because it's about...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u14	No, it was an amendment from the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Chakalotos signed. I have submitted it to the public, and I will give it to the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. We move to the debate of the ninth under number 805/19-4-2016 on the issue of redundancies of the second cycle of the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Stelios to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the redundancies of workers in the company "Industrial Facilities, Metal Construction, Coverages A.V.E. (BEMKE S.A.) which operates in Volos Second Industrial Area. Mr Katrugalos will answer the timely question. Mr. Steeriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question we are addressing today to you personally and to your Government is more generally about the protection of workers and trade unions, who in this difficult time, in which labour relations have become 'latitude', in which each employer finds working jungle, in which he is dissatisfied, in order to impose his own right, the right to profit, that is to say, often by imposing terror and fear on workers choices that are deeply outraged and even - by abolishing the substance and the remaining labour legislation, that is to say, the protection of workers who have the courage, boldness and go ahead, they have this vision that I as an employee should be protected, claiming and having a working life, which will allow me to have dignity in the workplace as well as in general my life. Of course, this action by each employee, each trade union, does not like any industrialist, to any employer, because it conflicts with their own interests, which are the interests of profit. That is why each employer is trying to get rid of such voices, from such workers, from such trade unionists. The labour movement through hard struggles in previous years has managed to protect itself, to legislate to protect its executives from labour legislation. But, today, Minister, on the specific issue that we are talking about on 31 March, the particular 'BEMECKEP' industry, which is based in the Second BIPE Volos, has been dismissing a trade union executive. Fellow Tasolamprou Chrysula, who was made redundant by this industry, is an elected trade unionist, a cashier of the Trade Union Metal Magnesia, a member of the Management of Volos Labour Center and a representative of the Business Association in the secondary body, which is the Volos Labour Center. The industry, in wanting to impose a regime on its employees, by individual agreements, with reductions of up to 30%, by rotating work, has found an obstacle to this trade union worker and has wanted to get rid of that voice, which it had in place, which it resisted for itself, so that all workers would have a wage which would allow them to have a decent life. The industry, therefore, fired this fellow trade unionist by violating Law 1264, Article 15, which lays down for trade union immunity. We ask, Minister, what measures will you take and what will your initiatives be to withdraw the specific dismissal of the trade unionist from the 'BEMECF' industry? Also, Minister, we ask: what measures will your Ministry take in general to stop this terrorism at last, these measures by force on the workers, to impose the anti-energy arsenal that - let us say - you keep it at sea and strengthen it? Thank you, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u17	Minister Katrugalos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u18	Mr Colleague, I have said many times to the corresponding questions from the Communist Party that there is indeed a working jungle, which has been created in recent years both by the deregulation of protective legislation for workers and by the consequences of the crisis. He knows every worker that there is an army of unemployed people ready to take his place and bad businessmen - obviously not everyone - take advantage of that. That is why I am trying to be present at the topical questions that highlight the phenomena of this working jungle. As I have told you in the past, however, it is good to synchronise these topical questions with the measures taken by the Ministry of Labour, because we are trying to deal with this situation in intensity with the audits of the Labour Inspectorate and with legislative measures. In this respect, the debate in the Labour Inspectorate is scheduled for 11 May. It would therefore be better to have this debate later, so that we can have the full information. Because here, really, what's going on? The protection of trade union officials is one of the few issues that remain well regulated. There's total protection. A trade union official cannot be fired unless he commits some extreme misconduct - most of the criminals - and this must, as you know, be judged by the so-called Article 15 committee. In this case, the legal issue that will be considered on 11 May is whether this worker has an indefinite contract of employment, because it is paid on a block. It is very likely that this employment relationship will hide an undetermined relationship, because we know that the block is not in most cases a real service contract, but a dependent job. But that is the legal issue. If he had an indefinite contract, it's obviously illegal. I therefore give you my assurance once again that the Ministry of Labour with the legal possibilities it has tried to deal with phenomena like those described. On this subject I will be able to tell you more information when his examination by the Labour Inspectorate has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. Mr Steeriou, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u20	Minister, indeed in many of the speeches we have made in your ministry and here, in a debate on topical questions, you confirm the working jungle that exists. Did this work jungle - we ask - come from heaven? Have you not imposed it by the legislation, which - I have said again - you are maintaining from the previous governments and which you are raising and which you intend to do even worse with the work you are going to bring to Parliament? That's the first thing. You said bad businessmen. Minister, businessmen are not divided into good and bad. They are entrepreneurs and aim to maximise their profitability. It is what you are saying, too, that we will create a favourable investment environment so that we can have investments in Greece. This favourable environment for investors, Mr Minister, has to do with the presence of trade unionists, annoying trade unionists and pioneer workers. So let us say it - do Pontius Pilate when these 'bad' businessmen are really dissatisfied with you. Minister, you told us that you were going to investigate whether the worker had an indefinite contract or if he was on a block. Tell us, Minister, today in Greece, who has legislated the captive employment relationship with a block? So, today hundreds of thousands of workers, young scientists, who work with a dependent employment relationship that hides the block, have to stay naked from trade coverage, trade liberties naked and be prey to employers' fingernails? Yes, this colleague was with a block for three years working in the same industry and has raised her stature, and even with initiatives in the Trade Union Metal in which she has participated, because she is a new scientist. We are doing everything in these employment relationships because, as the Official Journal says, they have been covering a contract of a dependent employment relationship since work is provided in person, exclusively or principally to the same employer for more than nine months. It's yours and you know it. I mean, what's the matter with these blocked workers, elastic workers, what is it? Is that a second-class worker? Minister, we do not separate workers from those who work on a block, with rotating work, with fauna, with individual contracts. They are workers and they all need equal treatment in such a democracy, urban democracy. In our republic, they will all be equal. But even in this democracy, which you invoke, will we have a jungle? So, can't we even do that little thing to protect the job, if you like, voice, democracy in the workplace? Minister, let us say that, in addition to the good intentions you may have - we do not question this - with your attitude - but, when you have as a policy guideline, how this economy will recover, this capitalist economy, these measures, Minister, will support and defend them, because that is what I said again, it requires this economic model, this organization of the economy. Mr Minister, you said that the topical question is before us. Because of the lawyers' strike, the discussions that had to be held in the APRC, like your Ministry, have not taken place again because of the strike of the lawyers. So the timely question is ahead. But that is good, that the timely question comes before, so that the employer can get from you at least the message that yes, the ministry will impose the re-entry of the colleague even if he is on a block. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u22	It is obvious that the Ministry's attitude is always on the workers' side. It is also obvious that if it is proven - as I imagine it will be the case, accepting your assurances - that there was a hidden relationship of undetermined work, the law will be implemented here. From there on, while we have a capitalist economy, it makes sense for employers to seek the profit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u23	At the expense of the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u24	That's not just not bad. It's the absolutely anticipated in a capitalist economy. What we should take into account is precisely not to use terror and not to violate workers' legislation and rights. I said that before that, not all employers do. On the other hand, until we go to another system it makes sense to have as a goal to recover the economy, because if the economy does not recover, we will have unemployment. The issue is from the recovery of the economy not to benefit, as was the case in the past, only a few. So what we do in our own government is to try to protect workers' rights more effectively. I said yesterday, in a similar question again to your party, that in the new insurance bill we have a regulation, for example, which provides that the shareholders of public limited companies who have from 10% to over the share capital will henceforth also be liable to their individual property for dues to employees and insurance funds. Because so far we have had the phenomenon of cannoning the business and the property of the poor businessman not suffering any damage, and therefore of having damaged businesses and wealthy entrepreneurs. Well, that won't go on. So I'd like another economy system too. As long as we have this system, however, we must respect the rights of workers to try to restore the economy, because that will not only benefit entrepreneurs but also all workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. We continue with the first under number 8221/25-2016 topical question of the second cycle of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukorous to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the programme "Structural adjustment of small enterprises employing between twenty and forty-nine people, within the economic crisis (PROVING C)". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Antonopoulou. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. He said before, in reply to my colleague and constituent, the Minister for Labour, Mr Katrugalos, that there are some bad entrepreneurs. With my question, however, I believe that there will also be a state maladministration, both time-consuming and not today, against entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship. But, Minister, before I develop my question and take the opportunity from what you have said to my colleague earlier, I would like to tell you that having 10% of an anonymous company does not necessarily mean being an entrepreneur. He could also be an investor. With your provision, I am very afraid that the last investors will leave the country, since an investor does not make decisions, he is not necessarily an executive member of the board of directors of a public limited company. I think you should anticipate that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u27	If we can improve something, suggest it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u28	I'm coming to the question. Minister, I would first of all like to congratulate you on being here today in the cosmopolitanness of voting on insurance. See how many ministers are missing, benefiting from parliamentary control. You and your Deputy, in your honor, are here. In a minute, I shall be asking you a question immediately, Mr President. Madam Minister, I am referring to the programme of structural adjustment of workers in small and medium-sized enterprises that employ 20 to forty-nine people in the crisis. This was therefore the programme, published in 2011. Applications have been made. Contracts were signed in 2012. The programme was implemented from July to October 2013. The companies involved in the programme submitted their files. It was about four hundred fifty businesses, if my data are correct, throughout Greece. Twenty-five to thirty of these enterprises are active in my constituency, in the Magnesia Prefecture. So since they did this program, they filed the files. Six months later, in April 2014, payment orders for the first and second phases were issued. With this money, the companies paid the workers who were trained, the training centres which carried out the training of workers, VAT and the taxes involved. In April 2015 most of these companies had submitted the complete file on the repayment of the third phase of the program, which is implemented by your Ministry's National Institute of Labour and Human Resources. It is money that is part of the ESDP in the programming period 2007-2014 from the European Social Fund, which means that they are secured funds. Since then, no voice or hearing. Given that the ESRB has been extended until June 30, 2016, there are fears that this third part of the programme will not be repaid which is the remuneration of small and medium-sized enterprises, Minister. But this money won't go to business funds. They will go to obligations to the state, to insurance funds and tax. You know, after all, that small and medium-sized enterprises do not spend their best time in our country. So I ask you, directly, when will the third phase of the programme be paid? This is the only question, because small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are fighting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. Mrs Antonopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by saying that workers' adjustment programmes certainly need to be redesigned. I think that's what we'll agree on. I saw you agree. There are too many problems in design and too many problems in practice. So let me turn to your question on 'Customs Call', which concerns the structural adjustment of small business workers, as you have said. We can therefore see that this programme has been facing serious difficulties from the outset. From seven hundred forty-five beneficiaries and 73 million euros, which was the estimate of total expenditure, we reached four hundred sixty-four beneficiaries and 40 million euros. Let us stress, therefore, that for a programme that had to run within 2007-2013, as you said before, the first application was made in January 2011 and approved in April 2012. Very low performance. The program should have started a long time ago. So let me go through the reasons why there were delays. As you know, in 2014, there was a risk and the announcement of the abolition of the HICP. The existence of the EMCDDA itself was called into question. There was certainly a failure to finance the project’s beneficiaries from own resources, as you know, because of the economic crisis and there was a great deal of delay also due to the control of de minimis, where a lot of business problems have been present. Unambiguous conditions of implementation of the training object, inability to issue tax, insurance information to beneficiaries, problems of examining the accumulation of de minimis, require a long period of completion of the checks. So let us come through very quickly now - because this is a very complicated matter, and so I shall put in writing an extensive answer to the Minutes - where we are now. Firstly, as far as Magnesia is concerned, twenty-seven proposals had been tabled and had been adopted as a whole. Five have been answered, and so far, twenty-two beneficiaries have been repaid...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u31	Two phases.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u32	It's the last evidence I've gotten from the HQU. You'll come back. ...with a total budget of 2m euros, while on average 70% of the funding has already been paid to businesses. Nineteen of the twenty-two beneficiaries have already received 80% of the contracted budget. As far as the payment time is concerned, as you have said, precisely on the basis of the directives on the integration procedures co-financed by the NSRP, there is a deadline of 30-9-2016 for repayments to be completed. Therefore, today, the HRF pays repayments to the four hundred sixty-four beneficiaries, who have presented in due course repayment records after the physical and economic statement has been certified. In short, there is a need to keep under review. I have asked whether there was or is there a problem of funding today. There's no one. It is a question of completing the procedures. So far, we expect that the monitoring of two hundred and fifty-four files will be completed and we expect that the procedure will proceed smoothly to the extent that the checks have been carried out and all the data submitted by the companies will be submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. Mr. Buquoore, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u34	Madam Minister, you are no doubt a government and have the popular mandate to redesign, to reshape all these programmes which have to do with the structural adjustment of workers in the crisis, using European funds. In any case, we will be following you and we will be monitoring you. From there on, I can see from your answer that you have given me more detailed information that I have told you before in the development of my question. What do I mean, Minister? Of course, 1/3 of the program has not been paid. Now how to complete two hundred and fifty-four files from across the country and not to be one of the twenty-seven files of Magnesia in this first group I cannot know nor can I comment on it, I can only point it out. What do I say with my question? That the programme, regardless of the initial delays, which you are right to point out, has been completed, has been implemented. Workers were trained, companies submitted their files and payment orders for the first and second phases were issued. This programme was completed in September 2013 and April 2014, despite the fact that the management body that, as we have said, was the National Institute of Labour and Human Resources, which was in dissolution, as you politically pointed out, in six months' time the first and second phases were paid. Since April 2015, they have deposited the complete file of all the operations of at least Magnesia. 13 months have elapsed, and despite the fact that the first and second phases have been checked, these companies have not been paid for the third phase. As you said, 70% of them have been paid, 80% of them. The remaining percentage is the remuneration of enterprises. I told you, Minister, and I would like you to make a more specific commitment in your dentext to speed up procedures, because this is not money that will go into small and medium-sized enterprises - you know better than me, Minister - but they will go to pay the insurance funds and their debts to the IRS. But how can a small, medium-sized businessman, Minister, be assured when he has to take from the state - and I am talking about the delays of the previous government, but above all about this delay in the third phase of repayment - 20,000 or 30,000 euros for a year and a half? How can this businessman be insurance and tax information? I would like, Minister, to avoid taking advantage of the fact that you are closing the debate and making more specific commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u35	Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. The fact that a project has been completed does not mean that the dossiers submitted are of excellence. So we need to be thoroughly inspected...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u37	After the first and second phases were repaid, how is the file not perfect?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u38	Please, let me finish. The first and second phases, as you know, have been completed. For the third phase the checks have not been completed. So when there are hundreds of examples of past payments, but we had exceeded de minimis, they are now calling on us to pay fines. We therefore need to complete the control procedure. He's on his way. I have already submitted to you the number of applications and files that have been completed. The extension, as you know, exists until 2016, as I mentioned before, and the process will normally be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u39	Did you get the cash, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much. We proceed with the first with number 1829/10-12-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on restrictions on the issue of tourist visas from Russia. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Xydakis. Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is why we are calling on you, although it is about tourism, to deal with the problems of issuing visas on the part of the Greek authorities in Russia, so that Russian citizens can travel to our country in the context of their choices, in which we must say that Greece is in the first place, and that is something we need to take advantage of. Since November 2014, it has been known that there is a new procedure for the Schengen countries and an obligation to issue biometric characteristics, as known. In December, I tabled the question, and your answer was that the adaptation to the new data must indeed be done and that we have taken all the measures - I say them briefly - so that it will become a reality. Unfortunately, and while it seems that some moves have been made by both the business world and the services, what is known is that there is a long delay in issuing the visa for someone who wants to travel to the country. This was measured in the previous period, on the occasion of Easter holidays, when at least hundreds of Russian tourists who wanted to travel to Crete, which I know and I suppose also across the country on other destinations, were unable to come because of the great delay, which is being observed and continues today. Because the next time we have the great current, as we hope, from Russia to our country, I would like you to tell us what has happened from there, so that we can address this great problem of the delay that exists, so that we do not put ourselves in the way of a tourist current, which can contribute very economically and not only to the recovery of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u43	I thank Mr Kegeroglu for the opportunity to clarify a few things. There has indeed been a noise on some Greek site of tourist interest and on some Russian. There is a legitimate concern on the part of Greek businessmen and a noise caused by some other motives in Russia. What's the reality? I'd answered you then in December. Twice had postponed your question's debate, I think because you had something to do with it. The reality is that I was informed on the subject on 14 December, I immediately set up a special task force, a working group with all the officials involved. On 4 January, we had a working party which found that in order to serve the consulate on the basis of the new conditions, we had to open up new institutional possibilities. We have adopted an amendment with which on-the-spot employees can be hired to the consulate. We have announced posts to be seconded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. An invitation was made to show interest in police officers, who were trained today the first ten are in Moscow. Eight foreign officials also went to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and today he's a special diplomat, too. Finally, software, which had some problems in early April, was also renewed. There was indeed a pressure in April last year. However, I must tell you that the moves we have made and the measures we have taken are going to be unleashed, the consulate will be fully deployed in May, to reach about a hundred jobs from about, thirty-five to forty, which it has now, and to see no problem. I would like to assure you that according to the official information of the Moscow Consulate General, with the information of the Russian Tourism Organisation and the statements made yesterday, which you will not have in mind, there is no cancellation. All that is said about cancellations is a bomb. I think this can be justified by the increased expectation that is largely valid but expectation is measured with those coming. What we can see is that both in the Dodecanese and in Crete we have an increase of tourist current from Russia, according to yesterday's telegrams from the Athenian Agency. And according to the Russian organizations, Greece is within the first three destinations and has a 40% increase in demand. Unpaid passport visas, over the entire period we are discussing, are about twenty, that is to say, below 0.5% of the total applications. These twenty are due to purely technical flaws in the documentation file, either because the biometrics were incomplete or because some Russian services did not respond in time to requests and complaints for cross-checking from the Greek Consulate. I'm at your disposal for any other detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I hold what you said in your first speech about initiatives. I have to tell you that it has become a cosmological event last year, in the sense that it is a burglary of relations between Russia and Turkey, it has made our country a first priority for Russian citizens. We must take advantage of this and take advantage of it in the best way. And of course, you said that you were informed about December 15th, if I understood well, but this is a well-known matter to the government last year. As you will know, the first attempt with the famous competition, which took place before your presence at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was in May or June 2015. That's where it happened. So what we did not do as a country has not been done by the government since 2015, knowing the new data on the movement of people in the Schengen area from these countries, you said that you started doing them 20 December. Personally, good but the government has a huge responsibility for this delay. It's not a personal matter anyway. I now come to that. The House, in fact, after January by way of derogation, enabled you to hire, move, remove. That was necessary when at the last minute, in fact, we have to deal with a problem that exists. For your part, it is imperative. This possibility has been given by Parliament to you, but things are not exactly as they tell you. They will appreciate it better, of course, because I do not want to say anything more, the tourist businessmen in Crete and Rhodes who know and the names that had been closed down and have not been able to come. There will be no dispute as to whether that figure is ten thousand or five thousand. Well, it's not the number you said. I say it's nobody. I want time today, if you can tell us. Tell us if after twenty days or until the end of the month - why did you say that today some people work and tomorrow and by the end of the month - who is going to St. Petersburg - that's what's called the most distant city? - in Moscow or in another smaller city, or tell us how much time it will take, since, of course, it does not have any other obstacles to consider a visa for entry into our country, i.e. visas. How long does it take? Is she gonna want one, two, three days? That's a matter. Tell us, too, whether it is satisfactory for the network of towns to which it can address, where these issuing centres will operate. Tell us how many cities they are, because the number varies. You told me about eighteen cities. I read somewhere that target is more than 20. See how many cities it has already formed and how many cities we can have this service. As far as the question is concerned, you have been abroad twice. I wasn't the one who was responsible. I don't remember once what reason there was. However, in time we raised the matter in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, because we had anticipated that there would be a question. In fact, we wonder why some agencies had not seen it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. Minister, here you are, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u47	Mr Colleague, you are right to point out a few things, except that the origin or time horizon of these things also touches governments other than the SYRIZA Government after January 2015. The competition for the provider you mentioned was designed under Minister Venizelos, your Minister at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So if there are shadows for this contest, look for the notice and the specifications of the contest there. I say this in case you have some thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u48	It's been a long time known.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u49	Just a minute to finish, Mr. Comrade. Please. I didn't interrupt you. I'm talking about who designed the contest. Furthermore, the introduction of biometric data and the VIS system has been known since 2013. I did learn it slowly and perhaps there was also a delay in the service and in the first government of SYRIZA. I recognize it. But we have to see it throughout the range. I've studied it very much, Mr. Kegeroglu. I've moved mountains for this story. My agony for the national economy and tourism, the islands and the heavy industry of Crete and the Dodecanese is similar to yours. However, we must recognise that the Greek public administration, if you know it - and you know it, because you have run the Ministry - is heavy, inert and does not move according to the political will or the real needs of the economy. That is why Greece is in this mess. That is what we need to change, public administration and its effectiveness. You said that we legislated by way of derogation. No derogations have been made. It's legal. I, one week ago, informed all the parliamentary representatives of the parties in detail, entered the House and they all voted for it. We made no derogations from legal order or legal culture. It got smooth and right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u50	I did not say 'by way of derogation' but 'legally'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u51	Legally. Good. You're asking me to talk to you about time. The Schengen Code requires States issuing the VIS visa with biometric data within 15 days to have issued a visa or a justified response because they cannot give the visa. Right now, we in Moscow have about seven days. We have requested that applications be lodged at least ten days ago and that they should not go one and two days ago. Of course, much of the tourist package in Russia is the so-called 'last minute'. We are trying to help these too. By May 10th, all visas for passports have come out, Mr. Kegeroglu. There is no Russian tourist who came to Greece and had no passport despite the existing pressure. In Saint Petersburg the visa for the passport is delivered in forty-eight hours, as in Novoroskisk. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] As far as the provider's Data Collection Centres were concerned, it was twenty and we made it twenty-eight. We have mobilised a network of fifteen mini VACs, small'shopping shop' and we give the opportunity to anyone who can pay more - and there are many of these wealthy Russian tourists who can pay more - to make use of mobile units, mobile units. They go home, print biometrics and supporting documents and pay more. The increase in working stations within the Consulate will therefore reach seventy-five in May. And the VACs of 20 have become twenty-eight, plus fifteen mini VACs, plus the mobile VACs. There was no more networking and there was never before. If you have anything else...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u52	You didn't have to. It was new data.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u53	Look, you said something else that we knew last year about changing the system. Indeed, new geopolitical data with the closure of the Turkish and Egyptian markets took place shortly before Christmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u54	We move on with the second question by Mr Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health concerning the hours of pharmacy. The question will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Blondos. Please, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u55	Minister, indeed the extended hours of pharmacies have many benefits for both consumers, people looking for medicine and other kinds of medicine, but also for pharmacies themselves for too many reasons. We started it. You're still on. However, you know that some phenomena have also been observed which, instead of having positive and healthy evidence of competition, make them unfair and, above all, do not serve our fellow citizens, who are looking for medicine many times and at night, for reasons of necessity. I would like to give you an example, Minister, from Attica. The day before yesterday, which was the Daylight holiday, we had posted pharmacies on tabs and on the internet as guarding four hundred fifty in Attica. But they opened another five hundred. The result? The citizen has a pharmacy next to him and doesn't know he's open. There is, however, the opposite. Looking for a pharmacy in the evening and not finding it, because there is too many pharmacists to get rid of on-calls, invoking economic reasons. That is a good thing, but it also creates problems. So there are now too many pharmacys a day and very little open during the night. Again I invoke the evidence of the Attica Pharmaceutical Association to tell you that of the three thousand pharmacies of the Lecade, on a monthly basis four hundred and fifty people were two-day and one hundred fifty nights overnight, but we do not yet know how much pharmacies are open with free time, because their hours of operation are not stated and cannot be registered. Now, last October, I will read you out of the document of the Attica Department of Public Health, that lately - I read now - there is a phenomenon of mass pharmacy exemptions from on-calls and nights for economic reasons or health reasons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Immediately, Mr President, just a moment. It is also noted that while during the day, the Health Directorate says, there are many open drugs, mainly in commercial areas or near hospitals, during the night, there are few, especially in remote areas. That is why, Minister, I asked you the written question. It seems from your answer that we agree with the principles. In other words, you also tell me in the written answer that you want to have the extended working hours in the interests of both citizens and pharmacy. However, what you are saying is that you will change to get some rules in place, that there is no distortion of competition, that is why I would like to ask you here orally to tell me more about these guidelines and the operating rules you intend to put in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u57	Madam President, I think it is indeed a timely question, because it is also under way in these days a kind of mobilisation of pharmacists who have withdrawn their members, members of the Attica Pharmaceutical Association, in fact, from the obligation to have a two-day period, reacting to the unconscious and chaotic situation that has actually been created - and I fully agree with you - over the last three years in the field of pharmacopoeia. We must say this, first of all, that there has been a legislative breakthrough by Law 3918 in Law 4052 and Law 4254 towards the most liberalised operation of this market. In our view, that was a problem. Obviously, there was a Memorandum of Understanding, based on OECD Toolbox I, to be released in some way during the working hours and in general the pharmaceutical profession. However, I agree that the way it has been done has caused multiple side effects and problems. There are indications, even from the services of the Attica Region - even using the word 'haos' - that there must be an intervention to overcome this problem. There seems to be a real difficulty for citizens to have easy access, especially at night. In essence, a two-speed system has been created. There are the pharmacys, which are called 'expanded hours', which operate whenever they want to, without anyone knowing about it. The law enables them not to inform the Medical Association of their working hours. They work by appreciative means. Usually, of course, they are pharmacies which are close to shopping centers, hospitals, areas of increased demand. And this thing has created a redistribution of the market, has adversely affected the economic functioning and viability of many pharmacies, which, for economic reasons, are indeed asking to be excluded from on-calls, bishops and others. We have the political will to deal with this problem. We agree with the labels of the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association. We want a new regulation which sets specific timetables, in addition to the standard timetable, which has been in place so far. We have discussed this at technical level with the Panhellenic Pharmaceutical Association. Basically, we have accepted the framework of his proposals. We have formulated a proposal that has been submitted for adoption in the institutions. We obviously want to have acceptance and consultation, because it is a regulation that is involved - let us say - in the context of the commitments made by the country's agreements. The logic is that there will be specific hours from morning to late afternoon and Saturday to noon. The pharmacist will indicate within this time limit what time the pharmacy may be running and, of course, there will also be a duty to participate in the on-call system. That is to say, the regime in which everyone can open up and close their pharmacy on an estimated basis and, let us say, the opportunities given to it by the market in the wider region. I think this is an important regulation. We will give the counter-region, the regional services and the local medical associations greater competence. We also want to give local flexibility, so that tourist areas can be given special treatment during periods of high trade, so that two major issues can be safeguarded. The first issue is the easy access of citizens to the medicine, and hence the service of the major public health item, and of course, in our view, we should also be interested in the sustainability of the small pharmacy, which is scattered across the country and which performs a very critical function, often contributes to the provision of advice or primary care services in the world. This is how we want to keep it, that is to say, a balanced distribution, that there is no inequality elsewhere with overconcentration of pharmacy and elsewhere lack of service and difficulty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u58	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I believe that what you have said to us is further clarification of your intentions. And thanks for the information you gave me and me and the world. I would like to point out the following: Healthy competition is in the interests of everyone. But we need to find a set of rules for all pharmacies, which ensures competition. I agree with what you said about small pharmacies, because they are, in fact, playing an important role, especially in remote areas, but also in other districts where there is no easy access to shopping centres or other large pharmacies. I therefore think that healthy competition on the one hand and on the other hand is what we need to ensure this competition and equal access of pharmacy to it. It is clear that we are in favour of extended working hours. It is clear that the OECD toolbox - which you then agreed to - we supported. It is natural, however, that every new thing that is being done also has its problems. And because there is no need to give a second answer, Minister, unless you have anything to add, because I think that, from what I have heard, you are heading in the right direction, I would ask you to have a dialogue, so that we can, at least in this regard, reach agreement on the insurance policy of pharmacists and doctors, because we cannot agree on whether or not we can have a consensual solution which we will all support. In the time still available, let me ask you, Minister, on another topical subject. Because your attitude is another and your morality is another, it makes me a terrible impression of how you have politically covered this whole tragic story with CEDEFOP and of the fact that, in order for Mr Paulakis to be able to do his interventions, your board of directors - you had appointed it, it is yours, but it is an institutional issue, that is what we are interested in and not the faces - to finally enter some of your doctors or nurses on the lists. The result is that even so far, almost mid-May, doctors and nurses have not been to the ICUs. Mr President, where are you a professor of medicine, I refer to you for that. Minister, do your utmost to tell me what you're going to do with this lousy story.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u60	You still have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u61	Two brief remarks on the question. We agree on the principle. As soon as we have reached the final agreement with the institutions, it will come in the form of an amendment, a regulation, where it will obviously be consulted and everyone will say its opinion. We will present it and communicate it with the pharmacists. I think it will be an acceptable framework, where it will put a regulation within the framework of the liberalisation of working hours and the better service of the world. Today there is inequality. And I think that a political conclusion is that the health services market is not a common market, any market. The logic of liberalisation and self-regulation has proved to be problematic. So there must be rules, there must be a framework, so that the citizen can have access to this crucial good, the medicine, health services, etc. Now for the subject you raised on CEDEFOP. Allow me to say that in this story it would be good to be careful to what everyone says. CEDEFOP, dear colleague, as the presenters of Jerusalem well know, has for many years been the epitome of mismanagement, opacity, customer relations in relation to notices and recruitments. ‘Many more of the loose ends of the past, they have been launched with audit findings and the judiciary has assumed responsibility. That's a matter. What we tried to do, Mrs Christophilopoulou, precisely in an agency which did not have the good witness out of the way, particularly in terms of democracy and transparency, was to lay rules. We demanded, for the first time, that SAPA criteria be placed on the notices made. We demanded that there be listings and objections. That's never happened before. We demanded a rational distribution of the staff assigned to all intensive care units in the country, which also did not exist, with the assistance of the Association of Scientific Entities. We have therefore tried to check the framework, set rules to ensure that the competition is quickly executed, but also that democracy. It was obvious that a hard mechanism of the CDC didn't want that. He reacted in multiple ways. And it came up with a marginal decision on the board, which basically did not allow for the quick completion of the tender, the examination of objections and the completion of the staffing position. After this development, therefore, we have asked for the resignations of the members of the board of directors, making it clear that there are two very critical unsettling things, in our view, which had not been dealt with. One of these was the dismissal of the Director-General of the CEDEFOP, who, with an irrevocable will, has been referred to for felony acts at the expense of the organisation. Secondly, we also demanded the facility - which had not been done - to control the EESC at times when the management control had to be extended for too many irregularities at times. So there was a conscious and organised reaction of an entire system to this political demand for resolution and clearance in this part. That is why we have proceeded with the replacement of the board of directors. And I think that all this is offensive to the people who have been chosen, for his new President, Mr Theophilo Rosenberg, but also to all the other members of the board of directors, who are excellent scientists of high prestige on the part of public care, epidemiological surveillance of infections and health crisis management. One is the people who have been placed on the new board of directors. Obviously, we cannot afford to be told that we have put party subordinates to promote appointments. This is really a misery, which is reproduced by part of the press, and I think it is very problematic for you to adopt it as well. Doctors' positions were a hundred. Applications were about two hundred. I mean, we didn't have a lot of applications for this contest. We have, however, asked for the criteria that had been laid down, and we have seen that there have been huge discrepancies. The services had not been properly taken into account. There had been periods of unemployment that were not there because they were mentioned in the past. They had postgraduate degrees, which they didn't prove. There were piles of infringements and irregularities. That's the ones we tried to fix. And I think that after yesterday's development, the location of the new management board, we can really look forward to an institutional, administrative, operational and scientific upgrading of this body.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister. Of course, the President should not comment on the debates, but, Minister, don't forget that CEDEFOP has an operation of about twenty-five years. I was the Minister, who actually did the CDC. He didn't legislate, but he got it done. I had left the chairman of the board of directors and the board of directors, the council placed by the Government of New Democracy, headed by Professor General at that time. This was done to have a cross-party check. From the Ministry's point of view, he had his services and controlled the ERIC and did not change it in terms of the Board of Directors. And that's what happened for a very simple reason: why the CCIBO from its operation and from its control has saved the country from great pandemics. Do not forget and underestimate - and I insist - that Athenian democracy collapsed from the infection of Athens. Discussions have taken place in this House that, in the service of other ministers, I will not mention the names for not being considered politically - 200 million have been spent to deal with the famous influenza epidemic at that time. Of course, you need to check these out. You do well to check it out. But why are you selectively controlling a period of three years and not controlling a period of twenty-five years, which is multiple the costs that have been incurred for this purpose? But the danger is not that. Because the easy answer is that you choose goals or goals. I'm not going to comment on that. Let justice comment on it. But what I am going to comment on in particular is that you are putting the functioning of public health at risk. Why? This Board of Directors, which I do not know, will hopefully be the best it has ever been. I have no reason to question anything. But what administrative board will come after this story that you do and will not think about why to assume such responsibilities? These people are unpaid. They're offering services. They're academic executives. They work elsewhere and offer time to CEDEFOP. They're not people who get paid. So why should such responsibilities be assumed and why protect the country from any epidemic and be run by some in the courts at some point? CEDEFOP has one single reason. The Minister controls and has the responsibility - all the ministers have the responsibility - of the boards he places on, hires, fires or sends them to justice. But if the government, the Minister, wants to see what is happening in CEDEFOP, start the first day to see what the ministers have done and what they are doing to this day. And because I mentioned myself, I'm going to say that I didn't even appoint one of the CDCs. Nothing changed in this story nor got involved in its operation. And I repeat, I had a board of directors that I hadn't appointed, but the previous government. That is what I recommend you do. Otherwise, you will see the problems that will arise. It's not a court case. It is a matter of protecting society and public health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, thank you for the intervention...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u64	Minister, since you have taken the floor, tell us when the beds will be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u65	And what you are saying, Mrs Christophilopoulou, is part of the same question, because that is what people are asking for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u66	That's what we want. We want the procedure to proceed very quickly, to complete the tender for both doctors and nurses and, if possible in May, to place people, to stabilise the operation of intensive care units, which have marginally staffed and to increase the available beds, especially in the Attica basin, which is on the waiting list and there is a problem. Let me say this, Mr President, that we do not in any way degrade. We are barely saying that this body is playing a very crucial role in the public health part and has excellent scientific staff, which obviously cannot be blamed for practices, errors and mismanagements, even for corruption that is evident anymore - it is also demonstrated by judicial investigation - that there have been occasionally by administrations. Obviously, we believe that an excellent job is being done. And we believe that with the institutional consolidation to be done, the validity and credibility of this institution is restored. At this time, it is very critical that the part of public health is being managed by the refugee crisis, there are issues for which citizens must feel that there are safe mechanisms in the country, which monitor infections, that cooperate with international centres - and we have done this with the European ECDC, with the American CDC that came a few days ago, have given us reports - that cooperate with CEDEFOP and suggestions to us. But, in general terms, they accept that the health management of the refugee has been done on the basis of scientific and internationally accepted. So we really want in this critical area to feel the health world, but society, too, that there is merit, that human resources are exploited, scientifically, in the best way. That is why I believe that you too cannot be at risk - because you are at risk at the moment - by saying that public health and management, let us say - of possible health problems which may arise. On the one hand, the people who have been put there - and I really want you to read who the members of the board of directors are and who are regularly and their alternates - are of excellent scientific competence and honesty. And they went into this difficult situation, because they just have confidence - let me say that - and the Ministry of Health's political leadership. Otherwise, they would not come in, Mr President. And they are in a position to contribute with their knowledge and experience in upgrading this sector, to have better services for our country and to feel safe for citizens, that they are not at risk from health bombs, as they are called irresponsibly and reproduced by too many media, but also by many alleged government critics on the part of the management of the refugee. In short, we have no mood, no rehabism or criminalisation of bodies supervised by the Ministry, etc. and their people. What we want are procedures for the clearance, resolution and institutional upgrading.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u67	I would not respond, but you used the word 'threatening'. Look, when the word 'hazardous' is used, it is a very heavy word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, you have clearly said that the change in the administration of the CEDEFOP puts public health at risk. Isn't that what you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u69	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u70	Of course, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u71	No, you misunderstood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u72	We'll see about it in the Minutes. So tell me what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u73	You've got the wrong idea. I didn't say that. In fact, I said that I do not know what the new administration is and I hope it is one of the best. That's what I said. I didn't say what you said. Look at the Minutes. But what I said is another: CEDEFOP is an institution, which you must pay particular attention to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u74	We're totally in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u75	...and when we say, "I'm in danger", I'm not in danger for myself. I brought you an example of history. Well, it's not a funny thing. When we had the flu here and it was all shaking that half the population could leave - that is what the World Health Organisation said, if you remember then with the vaccinations - all of Greece had first news how many will die. So when the World Health Organisation comes back and says that these people did their job well, I think it is plus, I do not think so, because the aim is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u76	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u77	So I told you not to transfer - unless there are abuses, see this - the CEDEFOP policy. That's what I told you. If that's a danger, I'll take it. I didn't say anything more about the board of directors or anything about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u78	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u79	No, I want you to understand that. I'm not in a mood to jeopardize myself. My state as Minister but also as a person in society in general, is not linked to the word 'threatening'. Never!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u80	Good. Acceptable explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u81	Alas! We are now moving to the eighth under number 809/19-4-2016 topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on dealing with the immediate serious issues of the Police Directorate of Rethymnon and the construction of a new Police Megaron. The question will be answered by Deputy Minister Nikolaos Toskas. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, building a new Police Palace for Rethymnon is a requirement, not only of police officers, but I think of the whole society and institutions, of course. And this demand is more pressing and timely than ever because of the tragic situation of installations and infrastructures, which really do not find a price to anyone and in particular to a European state. The old and the lack of substantial maintenance has made the building completely inappropriate for the safety, both of the citizens and of the police officers. I will give you a characteristic example: Last September, in a house of the Rethymnon Police Department, a large piece of concrete was removed from the roof, which fell right next to the hand of a police officer, who was carrying out prison guards at that time. Unfortunately, this is not the only incident and I think that so far we have not mourned victims. I would also like you to take serious note that Rethymnon is one of the most popular tourist destinations in which thousands of visitors come every year. Just think about the suffering, but also about the third world image, which someone is facing when he goes to a public service, such as the Police Department. And to complete the picture, on February 27th of this year, during repair work, a major issue arose with regard to the health of workers, police officers, and the existence of asbestos in the interior wall of the building was identified by CSR. And as you well know, this type of asbestos is a carcinogenic material - indeed category 1A - of which from 1-1-2005 has been banned for use and marketing by all the Member States of the European Union. Unfortunately, the Ministry has not taken any initiative so far either to remove this material or, of course, to certify the suitability of the premises, despite repeated complaints by the Association of Police Officers of Rethymnon. I would therefore like to ask you directly: Firstly, although and when exactly you intend to launch the necessary steps to remove asbestos from the building of the Rethymnon Police Directorate. Secondly, if it is the government's intention to honour the commitment made by the Secretary-General of your Ministry, Mr. Anagnostakis, just a year ago in terms of building a new Police Palace in Rethymnon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kefaliannis, your question highlights exactly the situation in which we received several buildings from the Greek Police, especially with regard to the building of the Rethymno Police Directorate, which is an old building of land around a thousand five hundred square meters, while next to you - you know better than me - there is the School of Police Officers with about thirteen thousand square meters. Therefore, instead of all these years becoming unification, making a rational use of these buildings, old buildings have been maintained, unconscious, which create problems, like what you mentioned before. In fact, on 27 February a section was decommissioned during work. There was a material found from its analysis, which we immediately sent to "DIMMOCRITOS" that contains traces of asbestos along with cement. What does that mean? It means he's not asbestos. And from what you know - and from what the experts know, of course - there is a difference in the degree of danger between the black asbestos and the mixture with cement that keeps it stable, keeps these fibers. And from what "DIMMORIO" himself says, if this material does not move, if someone does not run away, there is a reduced risk. So what did we do next? First, the analysis of the "DIMMOCRITY" was carried out. Secondly, we have sent a technician of the technical services of the police, who took all the restrictive measures requested by the Rethymnon Police Association. All the things that the Union has asked for have been implemented by us. Then we asked the "DIMMORITO" to send a step, which would make the extra measurements, so that we would be a thousand percent sure there is no danger until this material is removed, which you know is done by specialized workshops or see what else we can do. Badly lies, of course, this building cannot be repaired to the extent that it is a well-functioning building. You know that well. The issue should be addressed either by building a new building or by integrating these police services into the other existing buildings, which is difficult. We are oriented towards building a new building. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In recent years, the Secretary-General of the Public Order, Mr. Anagnostakis, has met twice with Mayor Rethymnon and discussed on a specific framework, concerning modification of the concession, maintaining a certain percentage of importers, as was the initial commitment of the Greek Police, since 1955. The mayor has committed himself to trying to find the 1.5 million needed to build a new building, where the police schools are, where we should, if we want to be realistic and if we want to see reality, transfer the police department. Otherwise, the existing building, no matter how much money we spend, cannot be in a good operating state. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] For the time being, however, we are taking all the measures we need to take on health issues and in cooperation with DIMMOCRITY and in very short time, from February to today, so that there is no risk to workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u86	Minister, on the issue of asbestos, I keep your promise that it will be dealt with in the near future. Because, as you well know, until today, the actions of the Ministry until mid-March were essentially an official of the Technical Support Directorate of the Hellenic Police Headquarters, without proper equipment, who simply found the presence of asbestos, along with the cement you mentioned. But you too understand that the asbestos issue is not resolved. On the other hand, a technical step must be sent, which will inspect all the premises of the building and confirm the extent of the use of the material in question. Secondly, I think that an air check should be carried out by a specialised laboratory in order to determine the levels of pollution and the potential exposure of users to this carcinogenic material, so that there is no doubt as to whether this material, despite its mixing with cement, poses a health risk to both citizens and police officers. Finally, I think that all these measures should be launched in order to remove this material from all the places it has been used, of course, by observing all the safety rules, both for the staff involved in the work and for the staff who are working. I think this should happen immediately and, if necessary, we will come back to parliamentary control. I am also in favour of the relocation of this building, namely the creation of a new Police Palace, which, as I have said in my prototype, is of paramount importance to the society of Rethymno. As I have said, we are together with all the institutions - and I am glad that my fellow Member, Rethymnon, also, believe, supports this effort - in order to find a solution to this issue. In fact, recently, the Rethymno Municipal Council unanimously decided to modify the concession for the construction of a new building in the area of the Police Testament, of course, on the condition that the Department of Police will remain there, namely that the Police Palace will not be moved and the Rethymnon Police School will be gone. This proposal is not a new one, too. We had set it at the time, at Mr. Anagnostakis, when last May, during the celebrations of the Battle of Crete, he visited this place. It was something he had understood that he would also discuss with the political leadership and come back when he was ready. Of course, so far there has been no concrete action, apart from discussions and meetings with Mayor Rethymno. You are well aware of your experience and other prefectures that the major issue, perhaps one of the most important and most difficult issues, is finding this place. At least that is the problem in Rethymno, since there is a meeting between the relevant bodies, with regard to the movement, in essence, of a new building, at the police school. On this matter, however, I would like you to give us a more specific timetable - if there is at this moment - for the Ministry's leadership. A second issue you raised is funding. There may be a decision on the part of the Municipality of Rethymnon, as you said, to find 1.5 million for building. You know very well, however, that municipalities, generally self-government, have specific resources and often it is difficult to find this amount. I would therefore like you to tell us whether there is a certain will and a specific timetable for funding. Previously, as you recall, the creation of police majors was either through public-private partnerships (PPPs) or through the Public Investment Program. It seems that at the moment, both are a little difficult to achieve. The idea of using EU funds has fallen too, but I personally doubt that this expenditure is eligible for the ESDP. But I would also like your opinion on the question of funding, given the closeness of local government resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u87	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Kefaliannis - as I said before - we have not left any time gaps. We have taken the steps we have taken towards the 'DIMMORITO'. We have asked to go to a workshop to control the air and control the whole environment, to see to what extent the problem lies and then remove these asbestos fibres that are present in impurity with the cement from the planned workshops. In the Ministry of Health there is a competent environmental hygiene, which he too can perform autopsy. It's something that's about to be requested from the Ministry of Health. So we take all the measures on the issue of health. As far as construction is concerned, there is obviously because the fourteen thousand square meters of police schools are sufficient to build a building there. There is the problem of funding. Indeed, there are difficulties from European funds, because some of these uses may not be eligible. The mayor pledged that he could activate entities, volunteers, sponsors that could contribute to this construction. It'll be a jewel for your area. And I believe that all - and the political actors in the county - can be activated in this direction. Because you understand that 1.5 billion is 1.5 billion and you understand, in this period, how difficult it is to find. On the other hand, we are trying to set schedules for these very old buildings. Indeed, this building is in a worse state than all the police buildings in Greece. There's a couple of other similar cases, but maybe the worst one is in Rethymnon. And that will concern us with the issue of construction priorities. They can't make repairs. You know that. So we need something new. However, there must also be a contribution by all those who can from your region, but also in general, to see what can be done. It's not something that can be solved tomorrow morning. Covering health issues and any repairs to cover staff are something that can be done tomorrow morning. The construction, however, requires coordinated and more efforts than anyone in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u89	We're entering the last timely question. It is the second with number 824-25-4-2016 topical question of the F' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the utilization of the properties of the area on Afantos Rhodes from the archaeological site. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Aristides Baltas. Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, it is true that Minister Baltas has been kind enough to inform me of the positions and opinions expressed in this decision on the revision. I tried to reassure concerns. Unfortunately, however, local society did not reassure. Local players, operators and all stakeholders have put forward the question ‘Why now the resetting?’ and mainly linked it to the issue of “COSCO”, that the involvement of the Archaeological Service is an attempt to cancel the investment of that region. That was the point. And that's why this whole story was created. What concerns people claim is that the findings so far are not so impressive to justify resetting. With my question, therefore, I would like you to reassure these concerns in all ways, because investors have said that they will withdraw the investment if the Archaeological Service, in any way involved and delayed the investment. So, in the sense of this, I would ask you to reassure yourself with a decision, either by a new decision or possibly by a change in the ministerial decision or even by withdrawal, because if things remain that way, it is certain that the investor's interest will be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u91	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Cremastine, for your question because we are given the opportunity to clarify, in the most formal way possible, various things. The first is the way in which public dialogue takes place, in which on one point, without having studied exactly what it means and on what terms this decision is made or on what basis, something emerges in newspapers, the spirits are evaporating and an entire climate is being built, which prevents the sober assessment of what has actually been done and what the real impact of any ministerial or other decision has on it. The same happened here. Let me say this very specifically: the declaration of archaeological space is a completely distinct thing from the declaration of archaeological zones with conditions for building. You know, Archaeological Zone I forbids building, Archaeological Zone II allows it under conditions, Archaeological Zone III is out of terms of this type. However, the declaration of archaeological grounds does not concern itself. That's the first. Secondly, the investment process was based on a previous decision by the ECHR, the Special Plan for the Development of Government Property, where the conditions there are exactly the same as the terms of the declaration of the archaeological site. So, there's no problem from there either. In relation to the entire plot of Afantos and the interest of the two investors, it was an extremely hasty and unannounced process, where it passed by ownership of the EOT to the property of the GOD, in the previous governments, in a very strange way. Because in the process of this transfer, archaeological zone I, belonging to the constitution in public and cannot be sold or granted in any way, it was considered to be going through the SWEDEN and can be sold. This has created an entire legal hub over the last few years. We solved this in the first year at the Ministry, saying that if the archaeological site, which is supposed to be sold, is simply returned, the ownership of the State, there is no problem and the investment can go ahead. The last episode on the sirial is just this story with the proclamation of the archaeological site. To tell you more simply, Athens, around us here and beyond, is a preached archaeological site. This does not prevent building buildings, hotels or so on. Nor in Afantou Rhodes is this declaration preventing the construction of any building that obviously meets the general standards for buildings. So there's no brake of any kind in the lining process there. Noise is far more than a meaningless thing. The investment can proceed as far as the Ministry of Culture is concerned, without repeating, I repeat, any new condition in relation to the ECHR and what had happened at the time. Just to make this clear, this declaration is some formalization that, in the whole region, there are possible archaeological findings in all respects. And believe me, there are such for this whole region. This simply means that the Archaeological Service is more concerned with the development of the building processes and nothing more, as would be of special care if we were to build a hotel here next door, and there is no problem of any kind. In this sense, then, all the noise that has become is not about the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture has done all it can to help invest in the previous phases, in cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism and, therefore, the noise created at some point is journalistic noise, which says to find a chance to get bored here or there, without anyone seeking to find out what the real content of the alpha or beta decision is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u94	I am pleased that you reiterated what we had primarily discussed, but in practice I would like it to be clear that the resetting does not change anything from the non-restriction. I mean, if one gets the investment and builds, he's gonna have the same suspensions he'd have when there wasn't the reset. This thing must be cleared up, even with a second communication, because it has obviously not passed. It is very important and important to say that the whole story has only academic character. Because if it is academic, I do not think there is a question to discuss. If, however, it leaves a shadow or cloud that investors may somehow achieve better conditions, because they will say that 'we are investing in an area which is dangerous in terms of investment', then that is a problem. That's why I said in my protology that those who combined it were combined with evil thoughts, just like the “COSCO” theme, which I obviously don't think “COSCO” has anything to do with this. So - and this is the point of my question - they expect the Ministry and you personally what comes out of our debate now to be formulated in practice, that is to say to these people that nothing has changed from the word rescheduling, in relation to what was up until now and that is the case, as is in the area of Athens or the Acropolis or anything else. This is important and I would ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u95	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u96	In this direction, therefore, Mr Cremastine, agreeing with you that there may still be clouds on the horizon, I am tabling in the Minutes the communication from the Ministry of Culture dated 25 April, which explains the subject in detail, as I also present an interview from Mrs Vlazaki, the Secretary-General of the Ministry, which is in the same direction, so that the explanations you are asking for are made in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport Mr Aristides Baltas presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second thing I would like to say in the time of my dentistry is - and you will agree with me, you say this in your question - that we are obviously all as interested in protecting cultural heritage and in the relationship between this cultural heritage and the terms of substantial and life-long development - if the term is allowed - and the need for investment to promote development. That is where I think there is no substantial disagreement at the general level. You will also agree with me that on every specific issue raised at times the decision on where the policy on this issue is at all times not always simple and must be examined in detail on a case-by-case basis. You saw, for example, what happened with the subway in Thessaloniki, where the ancients there were so important that they had to stay in place. ‘Without opening a nose there’, if the term is allowed, this has been done. The extension of the metro has been delayed, but everyone in the end will be delighted with the final result. In Afantou, it's another problem. It is another issue. It is another issue. There is, therefore, no repetition for once, of any additional burden of any kind in relation to the investment. The investment in terms of the Ministry of Culture can proceed exactly as it was before the redefinition and redefinition was made only formalises, as I have tried to say, that in fact this wider area which does not only concern the plot of investment, is of a archaeological interest, which means that the Antiquities Executive there must keep in mind, in order to prevent things that can be prevented, to help investment move quickly where it can move quickly and so on. I can assure you that our ministry now has the policy - let us say - to promote individual inventions in this dual direction: in the direction of saving the ancients and their emergence, but also in the direction of speeding up work and procedures, so that investments which can go ahead can proceed as soon as possible and as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u97	Minister, thank you very much. Of course, it would be useful for what you said to put into a second ministerial decision. Because, you know, the documents you have submitted and those that you have said, and whose credibility is not questioned, legal power I do not know if they have. So a second ministerial decision with what you said would solve the problem. I'm telling you by experience, it's your business. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We're going to make a break just for a quarter. The legislative work will begin at 12.15 p.m. The secretariats of the parliamentary groups that are probably attending the meeting, please inform rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives, as well as the Government Secretariat, although the Deputy Minister is here, so we can begin. However, because the Ministry of Education has to respond to what amendments by colleagues, if you are authorized, Mr Fotakis, to do so, all right. Otherwise the Minister, who will answer, should also be present, because today the debate is on the articles and amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u98	Not yet, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u99	You're not ready yet, okay. Even after the first two rapporteurs. So we're interrupting for a quarter. At 12.15 minutes, the legislative work will begin, and I would ask the rapporteurs and speakers to be in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs entitled 'Regions on research and other provisions'. The bill was debated and passed at the beginning of yesterday. Today's sitting will discuss the articles and amendments of the bill, parliamentary and ministerial, as a unity. The procedure I propose to you is as follows: the rapporteurs and the special speakers will first speak on the articles and amendments. Then, the remaining speakers on the principle, who will also speak on the articles and amendments, will take the floor for those who are enrolled in the articles and amendments. It goes without saying that parliamentary representatives - I do not mention them - have the right to ask at any time. We'll come to an understanding. I propose to them, immediately after the end of the speeches made by the speakers who want, gradually altering with colleagues, to take the floor. Mr Minister, before I give the floor to the first rapporteur, Mr Constantine Gavroglou of the SYRIZA, it would be extremely useful - because, as you have heard, the debate will take place on articles and amendments - if not now, once the first two rapporteurs have finished, that is, after a half hour, tell us about the ministerial amendments, which all will be accepted, but also on the Members, so that speakers will know if they want to be placed, either by saying or confronting, for those who are not acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u101	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u102	I'd like to make a request, because you know I can't get rid of my self-government past. You agreed - I do not know if it was you or Mr Kurublis - in Article 30(2) not to put it in this bill, which is about the municipal ends of universities, because there is a unanimous response from the CEDEFOP, but with a consensus finding a compromise solution in the Ministry of the Interior bill, which, from what has been said, will come in two - three weeks, to get in there. So, over and above my role as President-in-Office, I would like to ask you to see this and to consult Mr Kurublis. I do not think it would be wrong to withdraw paragraph 2 and to return to a subsequent bill with joint consent both of the government and of the government. Mr Constantine Gavroglou has the floor, which is already in Stepma. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u103	How long, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u104	For eight minutes. Okay? The rapporteurs and speakers will have - if necessary - a one-minute tolerance, but I would ask not more, to speak as many Members as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate we will not discuss each article in detail, but again on the general philosophy that the law is trying to establish with these articles. From the outset the bill stresses that research policy is interlinked with technological development and productive reconstruction. Here we want to make a comment, which has to be made very clearly, because it has to do with some things that have been said yesterday, that, for example, when we hear the involvement of private initiative or business, we are being abused. We do not get abused by the principle of business involvement, but the specific companies involved in such procedures are public private initiatives, as we have witnessed over the past decades with European programmes. Private companies need to understand that if they want to take advantage of the results of research, if they want innovation to play a part in productive reconstruction, they should make very serious decisions on their own future. In other words, there is no sense that there is a research result, an innovation, and the business takes it, which without doing anything to itself, without modernising it, without additional investment, will be able to take part in productive reconstruction. Here, then, to recognise the difficulties that the public has in its contribution to productive reconstruction, but also to recognise the status of many private enterprises in the difficulty of adapting to this. Now, this bill, as the Minister said yesterday, greatly strengthens co-operation. There are many collective bodies that form the research strategy, try to implement it and try to evaluate each step of evaluation. This is a dynamic system. In other words, the fundamental function of these collective bodies and their effectiveness will depend very much on the way in which people are involved and can make the necessary compositions. Here, therefore, the architecture - if you like - is proposed - which, however, has very specific demands. It has a requirement that there should be a climate of dialogue and consensus in these institutions, there is a precondition for a long-term commitment of both state and private institutions as regards the research strategy and, of course, there is also a condition, which says that if they do not change attitudes at many levels of research activity, we will not be able to go anywhere. That is why I say that there is a first solid step - I would not say a first step, but a first solid step - but this step in order to be able to gain the promotion that it promises, we also need the people who will be involved, but also the sensible democratic institutions within the research area, to take things into their own hands, which we are saying. In that sense, it would be important to strengthen these procedures. One procedure to some extent, but at least I would also like to ask the Minister to strengthen, is that of the institutions, which is already provided for. I would ask that this plenary be able to meet twice a year and have a little decisive responsibilities for two things, firstly, for economics and, secondly, for the issues of the research strategy of each institution, to which this plenary belongs. The democratic procedures envisaged are, as we have said, procedures which risk bureaucraticisation, if I insist - they do not take on board the day-to-day operation of people and institutions. I'll finish with three things so I don't get far. In amendments or legislative improvements, if necessary, some clarifications should be made. The first is something that was heard yesterday. Look, national and social dialogue did not begin to paralyse the government's work. It is not national and social dialogue that a process that says,'stops everything until the end of the dialogue'. The government is responsible for many things that need to be solved, operating problems, the malfunctioning of the educational system and, what we said yesterday, the reintroduction of normality. So the government has enormous responsibilities in this everyday life and cannot wait for any national and social dialogue. You know, something? If the government waits and is paralyzed until the dialogue is over, there is a huge risk that young people will be marginalised, because the loss of normality, precisely that reinforces. I'm coming to second. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impressive to deny the full-day school. It's impressive as a social phenomenon. Parts, televisions, newspapers come out on the line that the full - day school is abolished, when the truth is quite contrary. That should worry us about the public speech that is being made. To be informed, the full day school has been set up and will be generalized since September. We may have differences in programme, content, in various things. But do not deny the creation, expansion, completion of the full-day school since September. I insist that you must be very careful in this. And I don't say that with any kind of wartime. You must be very careful, because you are strengthening a public speech that makes black white. And that does not benefit democracy. Finally, with regard to the institutional boards, the Minister said so yesterday. To repeat this: in the history of universities - and not only in our country - if reforms do not take into account the historically shaped character of universities, these reforms are cancelled. The moment the universities get these special features, historically shaped, then the reforms are long-term. Let me remind you of the reforms of Venizelos in 1911, George Papandreou in 1932 and the PASOK government in 1982. These were reforms that responded to the real problems of society and responded to the demands of the movement. They had a duration. The 2011 reform was not a reform that went to solve problems. It was an ideological piece of legislation that wanted to impose a foreign model to the history of universities. For this reason, the councils were self-declared. Don't get into the logic that bad people or people who didn't know, etc. entered the boards. It has nothing to do with faces. A foreign institution was founded toward history and traits...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u106	My Professor, let's close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u107	With that logic, these councils were cancelled. Thank you very much and forgive me for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u108	Me, too. Be well. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Maria Antony, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, as I have pointed out in my first place, this draft law lacks any cohesion and is only a poor, sloppy consistency between the provisions which we do not believe contribute to the improvement of the education system and the development of the country's research web. In the short eight-minute period, it is practically impossible to refer to all the provisions by which the government is attempting to cover past mistakes and to satisfy old and new trade union demands, nor, of course, to the forty-four amendments tabled, five of which ministerial, completely irrelevant to the content of the bill, where we have also seen, Mr Minister, the only one: to bring in late-term amendments at the last minute and half an hour after you have tabled legislative improvements to the late-term amendments. This alone shows the slut and how you handle the supreme good of education. However, in reply to the Minister yesterday, which are photographic provisions, I will try to refer to the most basics, characterizing them as 'lights'. The ideological direction of the bill attempting to establish in the field of research a fully anachronistic system is clearly revealed by the first two articles. In Article 1, remove technological development and innovation from the welfare of the State, although in all the developed countries they are, as we have said, an integral part of the process: Science - research - development, as well as the association with the European Treaty, which other colleagues have said. Similarly, Article 2 gives the assessment a definition that can only be understood by your Government and is, in any case, contrary to current international perceptions and practices. With Article 4, remove several of the objectives of the national research, technological development and innovation strategy, with, in particular, compliance with the smart specialisation strategy, which is the most important activity to date in the preparation of a strategy for research and innovation and, as we said yesterday, it has already been approved for the national system and the thirteen regions of the country by the European Union and should have started actions. We mentioned it yesterday. In Articles 5 and 6, following the strong criticism of you in committee, you come with legislative improvements and maintain the obligation to vote by a law of the ESRB and abolish the provision that established the structures of your Ministry with competence in the field of research, development and innovation, an institution that you finally realised has no institutional and legal basis and is not provided for in any organizational plans of the Ministry. Again, however, you do not explain why GET is not enough and you need to consult your Ministry. Leave it empty. You have this with ambiguity on the legislative improvement, Minister. Also, in order, Minister, you are attempting to control the National Research and Innovation Council. We did. In particular, Article 7 shall remove from the GSC its supervision. Under Article 10, you yourself define the selection committee of its members, contrary to the previous law, which participated in the committee chairmen from the Rectors' Conference, the TEIs, the Research Centres etc. And of course, with the provision of Article 25(8) you are legally abolishing the current ESRB without ending its mandate and without reasoned arguments, in order to appoint, as you have said, an intermediate temporary temporary option of your own choice in order to obviously complete the ten selections of directors in the largest research centres in the country. Will you commit that the interim NCA will not make the managers' judgments? Minister, you told us to wait to see the composition of the new ESRB, as it consists, you say, of scientists of unknown value. I am presenting in the Minutes the composition of the current ESRB. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] Really, what are you implying? That the existing one is not made up of established international scientists? Sifakis, Zerefos, Simopoulou. Aren't these high-profile scientists? And with regard to your insinuation, Minister, about client relations of previous NSFs, I would remind you that one of the previous NSFs judged you as President at the ITF research centre. In Article 8, for the regional research and innovation Councils (RDPs) the changes that you are proposing are expected to increase bureaucracy, but also to change the clear development direction for which they have been institutionalised. In the composition of the EBRDs coming from the productive sector, they should be more than anything, Minister, in relation to academics, as various actors have pointed out in the hearing. In Article 12, you are exempted from the provisions of the law from the provisions of the law and from the completion of the establishment of bodies which had been anticipated and which would have contributed to the expansion of the research tissue in the Greek region and the development of new islands of excellence. You yourself, Mr Minister, have announced that the EIF is one of the five Greek centres and institutes, including in the list of one hundred of the most important institutes in the European Union. Now you come and put it out of law. In Article 1, you clearly seek, Minister, to intervene in the administration of the research centres and to dismantle their administrative autonomy, both by abolishing the participation of a representative of the GDR in the Board of Research Centres and by the possibility that paragraph 4 allows you to nominate members who are missing from the blockade. You nominate them as Minister. You take care of everything. In Article 14, you provide that the selection of directors of research centres also takes into account the opinion of all staff by intermediate and final evaluation. As I pointed out in the debate on the principle, this does not apply to any European institution. I wonder what serious, skilled, renowned scientist, but possibly vain cases or our own children, will he be interested in the Director's position under these circumstances? By Article 16(15), you are required to leave the research centres and institutes directors, who have completed the sixty-seventh year of their age. However, you only apply this to a research centre at DIMMOCRITOS. You have not applied this to another research centre and you are now in photographic order, which you have attempted to regulate the legislative cases of directors pending before administrative courts. It's a photographic device. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me two minutes, Mr. President. It's a lot of provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u110	Go ahead, Mrs. Antoniou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u111	In Article 23 we see another photographic device. In other words, the possibility of switching to GET only to those who are seconded at the moment is being given. Not a possibility, then, to everyone, given by the previous law. Other photographic devices. In Article 24, important questions are raised by paragraph 2A concerning the possibility of setting up an EUPM. The research centres, the universities, the AEIs have ERKE. What, then, is behind this provision? You haven't answered us yet. I mentioned in detail yesterday's position on the ERICs of the research and technological bodies of IOIs. In Article 25, paragraph 17, you are predicting the scandalous transfer of the Patras Technology Park to HE, without any justification, Minister. In the next paragraph 18, you also have a photographic layout concerning the Legal Personnel of Science and Technology Dissemination Centers. Someone obviously did some spending without the budget being approved. Who are you coming to cover now? You didn't answer us. Another camera device. In the second chapter, Minister, I would refer you to the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which reflects very strongly on whether a number of regulations are constitutional, which you are attempting to legitimise retroactively related regulations. Also, in Article 26, you are undermining the role of councilmanship. We talked about it yesterday. In Article 28, while we agree with some of its regulations, we do not agree with the regulation in paragraph 7, which provides for the possibility of recognition as an actual residence time at the stage of certain teachers, who are - says - suspension of duties. I know at least two ministers, who's on duty parole. Is that what this is about? Other photographic devices. Photographic, too, is paragraph 10 of the same article, which legalises retrospective decisions of the EMCDDA. Obviously, you know who was president of the EMCDDA during the period that did not apply the n. 409. In other words, you are aboard the non-implementation of the law. In the third chapter, in particular in the provision of Article 33(7), except that it is also characterised by the opposition as a photographic provision, we do not have the luxury of transferring teachers to primary and secondary education at the HEIs. Another photographic provision, therefore, for individual cases of men and women. Also, in Article 42, you include unconnected arrangements between them in an article. And while we agree on some provisions on the professional rights of hairdressers, we disagree with the paragraphs that abolish the Regional Directorates of the Secretariat-General for Lifelong Learning and we therefore necessarily vote against the article. And, of course, it is not possible to completely hand over our schools to the ambitions and leave them to the unavoidable, as you are trying to do with Article 45(2).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u112	Mrs. Antonio, you need to finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u113	I shall conclude, Mr President. And if the aspiring conquests, Minister, decide to make two months of occupation, will you carry the days of school lost in the next school year and so on? You are more likely intended to have eternal - life students, as in universities. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, who will obviously be voting on this bill, I would like to ask you this question. Are you proud of such a bill, with a stitching of provisions, last-minute amendments, set-ups? This is obviously the way you deal with the big issues of education, with unprecedented clandestineness. I shall therefore wish you, for the sake of the students, of the future generation, your term of office will be short, before you destroy what was good before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u114	Minister, whenever you're ready, let me know to stop the process and take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u115	I'm ready, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u116	Do you get ten minutes to answer everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u117	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u118	Here, you have the floor, and if you save time, even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to some of the amendments tabled, because on the issues of research and higher education the other Members, Mr Fotakis and Mrs Anagnostopoulos will speak. The amendment with a general number of 360 and a special 7, which concerns the IATAP and the recognition of practically the diplomas of law in Cyprus, is not acceptable. You know that an entire scientific and professional opposition to this has been developed. You know the positions of the Bar Association, but also the legal order. It is not possible, therefore, to recognise diplomas relating to Greek law, an excellence of national science, by foreign universities. It is a regulation of circumvention of the Greek universities and the Association of Lawyers, as well as other bodies in our country. If the parties concerned insist, there is a legal way. Secondly, with regard to Amendment No 362 and a special 9 on counting at the University of Crete, I must tell you that this provision has - we would say - quasi-party acceptance. I heard Mr Fortsakis who spoke last night at 12.30 p.m. and referred to this issue. He convinced me. It referred to the specific nature of the Court of Auditors' decision on which this issue was raised. There's this peculiarity. It's not a photographic device. It's about a hundred and fifty people in Crete. It is a provision that restores legal order, democracy and the ability to operate universities without such interference and problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u120	You're accepting her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u121	Yes, of course, I accepted it. As far as the IATP amendment is concerned, I mentioned why we are not accepting it. Don't repeat it. On the amendment concerning the extension of secondments of teachers from abroad, tabled by Mr Zouraris...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u122	What's the number, Minister? Please give us the number and yes or no, so that we don't lose the account.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u123	So I say that we do not accept the amendment under a general number 369 and a special 16, which Mr Zouraris has tabled. There is an entire argument in this regard. The provision is so vague that it actually allows some teachers to stay abroad until their retirement, to conclude so-called white marriages, to request a posting because of their spouses who left together for abroad and who are employed in Greek schools - not as teachers always, in canteens and others - and generally to be used to the detriment of other teachers who could serve in school units abroad and to renew and upgrade our school staff there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u124	With a dowry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u125	So I am not accepting this amendment. The amendment by the members of the JRC, by a general number of 371 and a specialist 18, is not acceptable. It's about the Ministry of Health. It is about permanentisation, which is a matter of concern to the public. This amendment should have been followed by another procedure, approved by the General Accounting Office of the State and others. With regard to Amendment No 373 and a special 20, as well as to the JRC Members, there is provision in the body of the bill on students - because of the earthquakes - from Kefalonia, from Ithaca, and from Iato-Carnania, where there is a school.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u126	Therefore, it cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u127	Yes, it can't be accepted. With regard to Amendment No 374 and a specific number 21 on the certification of teaching and teaching graduates at the Pedagogical Department of Special Education, I would like to say the following: There is this possibility. I don't think he's offering anything else. Therefore, as a surplus, we are not accepting it. With regard to Amendment No 378 and specific No 25 tabled by Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Arvanitides, we are accepting the provision on the blockade of the non-fulfilment of the military service. It's a reasonable proposal. The amendment with a general number of 391 and a special number of 37, as I see it, is cross-party. It concerns the National Institute of Research and Studies "Eleftherios K. Venizelos". It's perfectly logical. We're accepting it. The amendment, with a general number of 39, concerning the regulation on the time of the resignation of teachers from the service, corrects an injustice and restores equality. All civil servants, after submission of their resignation, shall immediately be deemed to be retired. For specific reasons in the field of education, this is not the case because we have so far expected changes to take place at the end. Even if someone resigns in the middle of the year, he leaves at the end of the school season. We consider it reasonable that retirement should take place on the basis of a resignation request and that it should remain the teacher in question for school-based reasons until 31 August at the end of the school year. It is an essential process of equality. This amendment is accepted. The amendment, with a general number of 395 and a special 41, concerning the continuation of the operation of the Networking and Promotion of Gender Equality of the CEDEFOP and the Committee of the Regions, is also accepted. It is necessary for these offices to function. Amendment No 396 and Amendment No 42 specific to ensure that the remuneration of staff employed in the LAGs is paid in order to meet urgent seasonal or temporary cleanliness needs under a fixed-time contract, is also self-evidently accepted. The amendment, with a general number of 399 and a special 44, concerning the granting of use to the Ministry of Justice of real estate belonging to the Olympic Real Estate in Faliro, is also accepted for reasons of the fulfilment of the functional needs of the Ministry of Justice. The amendment, with a general number of 404 and a special 47, concerns the possibility, in essence, of disbursement already decided - it went to the Bank of Greece - credit for the Greek State in order to continue building the school in Munich. This amendment is accepted. It is accepted that, in the next few years, we will have the opportunity to have a modern and exemplary educational school in Munich, where Greeks and Germans will be able to attend. Finally, the amendment with a general number of 405 and a special 48 on the regulation of the monthly compensation of candidate drivers' employees is obviously accepted. The rest will be spoken by Mr. Fotakis and Mrs. Anagnostopoulou. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u128	Well, we already have a first picture almost complete. There's a little something left to answer from the other two ministers. Therefore, those colleagues who have accepted the amendments do not refer to them and lose time in their speech. Those who have not been accepted and want to defend them, despite the fact that the Minister said no, can refer to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u130	Do you want the floor for your amendment? From what you've told me, it's one. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u131	I also wanted to refer to amendments concerning the first part of the bill, the part of the investigation. First of all, the amendment under general number 367 and special number 14 "Restoration of justice to a member of the academic community" is something similar to the impor tants reported by the Minister for the University of Crete. There is a cross-party agreement and it is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u132	It's not a match, Minister. It's completely different.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u133	It corresponds to the concept that there is a cross-party agreement. And in view of the reasoning which Mr Fortsakis developed yesterday, he is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u134	There's no cross-party agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u135	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u136	Please, quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u137	Amendment No 370, and Amendment No 17, as well as Amendment No 372, and Amendment No 19, have been submitted by the JRC concerning health and safety benefits and insurance arrangements for workers. We fully share the issue of unhealthy work and insurance regulations. After all, we had tabled corresponding ministerial amendments. Unfortunately, unfortunately, there is a problem from the General Accounting Office of the State and from the institutions, I would say. Unfortunately, we cannot accept them for that reason. As far as Amendment No 375 is concerned, the problem again lies in the institutions and what they accept. We are trying to resolve this - and, as far as I know, there is still a cross-party agreement - with some legislative intervention. I hope we've got a new one later. Clearly, however, there is a reaction to this from the institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u138	So it can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u139	It can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u140	Please, just tell me what you're accepting. Don't waste time with what you're not accepting. It goes without saying that the others are not accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u141	The issue of the ITSAK, the Seismological Institute, which I know is employing many of the Members of all the parties, is firstly a matter for the Minister responsible. There is no consensus on his part, so we cannot accept it. I shall now proceed to the amendment with a general number of 384 and a special 31, and to the amendment with a general number of 385 and a special 32, tabled by Mr Constantopoulos. Again, I fully share the content of these amendments. These are unhealthy allowances and non-wage benefits in research centres. There is a serious objection on the part of the General Accounting Office and these amendments cannot be accepted. With regard to Amendment No 386 and specific 33 to the Services Councils, this concerns more generally matters which need to be regulated in a new law which will have an overall approach to this issue. However, what I would like to stress is that, as far as the questions of health and safety are concerned, we, too, have tabled such amendments - I say this once again - which we have had to withdraw. That is what I wanted to mention about the piece of the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u142	Mrs Anagnostopoulou, do you have anything to say about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u143	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u144	Please, you are practical, so only refer to what you are accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I will be very brief. The amendment under general number 363 and special 10, on the rights of departing members of the EPC of peers, is accepted. The amendment under general number 364 and special 11, on the procedure for the selection and development of teachers of all grades at the IOI, is accepted. Amendment No 382 and a special 29 is also accepted to regulate questions of scientific, teaching, laboratory and technical staff of specific categories of universities and TEI. The amendment under the general number 387 and a special 34, to transfer the building and land of Alexandria TEI of Thessaloniki to the TEI of Central Macedonia, is accepted. Amendment Nos 388 and 35 are accepted to shorten the waiting time and the right to apply for a reopening of IPA members that have been judged and have not evolved for at least one year. Finally, the amendment under number 397 and a special 43 is accepted for the possibility of rewriteting students with a proven disability of at least 67% between Greek Schools of Fine Arts, which has been banned so far, but after consultation with the departments - that is, there was no legislative framework - is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u146	Good, thank you. Therefore, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives and colleagues who are to speak now have a complete picture in front of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Yavroglu, what would you like to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, I would like to make a proposal for a legislative improvement to Mr Fotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u150	You can give it to him in writing and if he makes it acceptable, he will read it and testify to it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u151	But I would like to say something, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u152	Now you're making a proposal. The legislative improvement, if any, will be made by the Minister. I'm saying this to be explained. It doesn't count what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u153	Yeah, yeah. It's obvious. You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u154	Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u155	Thank you. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I would just like to say to the House - I have obviously told the Minister in private - that yesterday afternoon, on a proposal from Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Constantopoulos, we met representatives of parties - Mr Fortsakis, Mr Papatheodorou, Mr Kegeroglou, and others - with the President of the Conference of Presidents of the Research Centres Mr Ioannides and the President of the Rector-General of the Rector-General of Petrakos. Both the Presidents have given us the reasoning and the unanimous decisions of the two sessions on this matter have come to us. There was an excellent debate, and there was one, I would say, unanimity - I do not want to create any problems or to overrule any, let alone vote - on the problem. As for the solution to the problem, there was no consensus. It doesn't matter who disagreed. I would therefore appeal to the Minister, because it is also unanimous decisions of the two Conferences of Presidents to include this legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u156	Good, because the meeting will be at least until 20.00, the Minister has plenty of time to hear what you said, which was a more general acceptance proposal and before the meeting is closed to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u158	Here, you have the floor for a minute, because we have to continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u159	It's just another matter. It is an amendment that I have not mentioned. It is the amendment with a general number of 361 and a special 8, which concerns the transitions of about four thousand teachers. It is something that was created under Mr Arvanitopoulou's Minister. I understand there's a problem. We cannot accept this amendment at the moment, because it concerns only certain specialities, for certain regions of Greece. It will create a problem of judicial appeals and requests from other sectors of education, as well as a question of whether there is a lack of credit for vacancy in other regions and regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u160	Can't it be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u161	It can't be accepted. However, the possibility of these essentially essential requests is explored, with the possibility of setting up other organic positions at a later date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u162	Good. Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilos, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President. As regards Chapter I, Article 1 states that the development and promotion of research is an obligation of the State in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution. You are accepting a consistent request from all operators. In Article 2, you are actually reprogramming failures of Law4310 and we believe that evaluation should be available to all operators. Article 3 contains provisions on the EBRD training procedures. There is still a lack of institutionalisation of the mechanism and procedures on the basis of which it will now be shaped in general terms. In fact, there is a downgrading of the national strategy in research, technological development and innovation, because neither the mechanisms for shaping the ESRB nor the fixed regulatory framework are established, and this does not guarantee a stable and rational definition of the ESRB. Under Article 6, the responsibilities of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology are reshaped and transferred to the Deputy Minister. Article 8 provides for the establishment of regional councils. As we have told you in committee, regional planning is, in fact, not linked to the central administration. It will be problematic in its application. In Article 9, the ESS mission and the specific advisory tool for developing the wider national strategy are in fact reformed. It increases the members from fifteen to seventeen, and our objections are in the election of members. In Article 10, ‘ESCs’, there are ambiguities in the responsibilities of the EESC and does not participate in policy planning, simply monitor its implementation. With Article 12, which is to replace Article 13a of L.4310/2014, you are attempting a detailed record and partly achieve it. We are in favour of the integration of research into a principle and a common framework. With Article 13, you are seeking to simplify the setting-up of boards. But some problems will arise in its implementation. In Article 14, you are trying to limit bureaucracy, but there are several ambiguities. With Article 15, you are actually trying to establish new scientific councils and what you are actually doing - and we will actually think - is a change in their name. With regard to Article 16, I would like to say that unfortunately in recent years the potential of research centres has been made up of workers with flexible employment relationships and with free market rules. In Article 17, the financing of research comes mainly from European sources. The good news is that there is a prediction and there will be no problems with regard to wages and infrastructure. In Article 18, you do not reliably and safely regulate the property of inventors. It may be transformed into a commercialization of knowledge. In Article 19, you hereby authorise the Secretary-General of the GDR to judge the suitability and adequacy of the candidates. It is not clear, however, what the qualifications of the members of the three-member committee are. Article 20 is positive in terms of scholarships. Article 21 seeks to improve the evaluation of the staff of research centres and in fact restore a law of PASOK. As regards Article 22, for the establishment of a national list of judges, we do not agree that this list should be drawn up by the Minister concerned alone. We have a positive view of Article 23 on staff transfers. With regard to Article 24, as we said yesterday in relation to the PPE, the Special Research Fund Accounts, you are correcting some organisational errors or financial issues, procurement, but in fact we are talking about fixed-term contracts and you will create a problem in how these researchers work in the research centres. As you have said, Minister, too many times, research needs time and, in fact, this article does not give it to them. In Article 25(15), it is unfair that the necessary research staff with part-time or part-time employment may be recruited by a decision of the Management Board at the PPEC. There should still be no such regime. Generally in Chapter I, we see that you are trying to regulate several issues of Law.4311/2014. You've been consulted by several bodies. There's positive. In Chapters II and III, in Article 35, it appears the memorial targeting that exists and gives us the mark of the bill, which says about saving resources. As we said in general yesterday, the entire bill dominates a Memorandum of Understanding. In other words, the Memorandum is trying to regulate all aspects of education. It can't be done. Education, research and technology, innovation cannot go hand in hand with the memorandum. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the memorandum and national education cannot go hand in hand. The whole question is solved only by a national education policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much. I invite the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u165	I'll need one, a minute and a half more, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u166	One, one and a half minutes, you all have it. You don't have to ask me. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the research bill has come, but it is being investigated at the same time! And I'm talking not so much about the articles of Chapter I research, but about the intentions of the Minister in Chapters II and III. We have noted from the first moment, both in committee and in plenary, that the debate will not take place on research, but on other provisions. Minister, you are predictable unpredictable! Why do we say that? You started from the arrangements for kindergartens in Article 35, which redefined the organicity and organic positions of kindergartens. You are even saying today that the regulation is in a positive direction. Subsequently, you raised the question of how to appoint, the recruitment of alternates. You supported an opinion that met the mass reaction of teachers. The twenty thousand assignments were finally an empty shirt. However, Minister, the problem of anointing cannot be a problem for the undetermined. Finally, you withdrew the arrangement with many praises and with open schools things were hard, you chose the Passion Week and by ministerial decision you led students, parents and teachers to their own Golgotha. What's the rush, Minister? Why such surprise? Why don't you bring the committee to your mind in the context of the national dialogue on education, so that there can also be consultation there that we draw conclusions and then come to legislate? I am invoking points from the sincere and genuine position of the rapporteur for the Coupling, Mr Gavroglou, on the memorandum obligations on education and the need to open up schools and universities in September. In this context, therefore, we will seek the best and best solutions in a spirit of solidarity, and I believe that this is our national obligation. Instead, you dogmatically insist on canceling the dialogue and on communication tactics to support your decisions. There is no consensus when those who govern have no ears to listen and - the worst - when they have raised a wall of absolute knowledge and authority. In terms of the articles of the bill, starting with Chapter I, we have noted that the country needs immediately to revise the legislative framework governing research, so that it can be linked to the economy and, of course, produce social benefits. The area of research and innovation needs to become a key pillar for the development of the country. We also note, Minister, that the Institute's meeting of researchers should be institutionalised with responsibilities for the financial accounts and, of course, for the strategic development planning of the Institute. In addition, scholarship time, as long as it led to a doctorate, should be recognised as a pre-service time in the public sector. It is unacceptable not to recognise Greek scientists, but to recognize those who come from abroad. The Democratic Reconciliation sees positive and will vote on Articles 1-24 of Chapter I. I shall refer in detail to the articles. With regard to Article 3, the scope of the draft law does not include established public research organisations and, on the contrary, specific private organisations are included. They will be able to join the National Register of Research Organisations, operating on private economic criteria and not necessary for the public interest. The scope of application is inadequate. Let me remind you that the Research University Institutes were included in Article 13a of Law No.4310/2014, which has now been removed. Critical is still to fall within the scope of this law and Law No.4310/2014 the theme of ITSAK as an independent research institute. After all, until today ITSAK continues to operate as a research and technology centre in Thessaloniki. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. We know that very well because Mr Arvanitidis has repeatedly put it. Look at these remarks, even at the last minute. With regard to Articles 4 and 5, we agree that the Euratom Treaty should be passed by Parliament. That was our proposal, after all. In Articles 9 and 10, there are issues concerning the process of electing members of the National Research and Innovation Council. It is necessary to involve the academic and research community and of course to represent all the cognitive objects. As far as Articles 11 and 12 are concerned, it is positive to record all research centres in detail. There is, however, no provision, Ministers, that there will be no further fragmentation of the national research web that will bring about the fragmentation of research resources in the 2014-2020 programme. That is why, at the last minute, we are calling for explicit legislation and for provision to be made for new public research organisations. With regard to Articles 13 and 14, researchers shall be sub-represented when having only one representative together with the special operational scientists in the selective bodies. The solution is proportional representation. That's the solution. In Article 15, it is a restrictive framework within the competence of the scientific councils of the institutes. In Article 18, the staff of research centres should be paid by a specific code of the state budget rather than a grant. Research, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be begged. In Article 24, with regard to the qualifications of scientific managers of scientific projects, while in AEIs they must have a doctorate in research centres as long as they have a master's degree. Why shouldn't they have a doctorate in research centres? It's a question. In Article 25, there is a problem with the temporary ETUC and the choice of its seventeen members by the Minister. This is where we disagree. It is the only article we are not voting on from the investigation. Let's go to Chapter II and to Higher Education. I am going to focus on one issue because, as we have already stressed, it is unacceptable how you bring these arrangements, without consultation and while the national and social dialogue on education is evolving. The state's commitment, however, is to rename TEIs to them by providing them with additional possibilities, such as there are criteria to draw up doctoral thesis. You didn't include it. This is where we need to talk at some point about their professional rights. These people can't be captive. As far as Chapter III is concerned, we are totally opposed. We are voting against it and we condemn the way in which these arrangements have come to a debate in the House. In order to use a friendly expression of the current SYRIZA ministers, "the dialogue process is a coup d'état". We have referred in detail to the rules laid down in Article 36, which leads kindergartens to close down. We insist on our proposal. For us, the proposal is one: compulsory two-year pre-school education. We therefore insist on this proposal. We vote against it, of course, as you have brought it, with the exception of Article 28 on the regulation of matters relating to universities and TEIs, Article 32 on the regulation of the subjects of State Language Certificate, Article 33 on the regulation of matters relating to the Staff Regulations of the Ministry of Education and, of course, Article 42 on lifelong learning. With regard to the amendments, the Democratic Reconciliation will, firstly, vote against the amendment by the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction which provides for the establishment at the Press Office of the Minister of the Minister for Two Positions of Journalists at a total cost of EUR 63,000 and, secondly, the amendment by the Ministries of Labour, Economic and Education regarding the operation of the Foundation for the Children's Housing and, in particular, the change of the Board of Directors. We believe that this regulation provided for in this amendment cannot solve the problems facing the Foundation today. So budgetary legitimacy, as Mrs Fotou says, is not achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, in a climate of intense concern about the course of evaluation and the insurance bill leading to the economic impoverishment of thousands of employees and retired people, this bill comes to create more problems in the field of education, in parents and teachers. From 1991 to 2010, organic gaps in primary education were covered by permanent appointments. From 2010 to 2015, pensions reached twelve and a half thousand and permanent appointments were made of one thousand five hundred. Approximately eleven thousand gaps are covered by subservient recruitment. For example, four and a half thousand appointments were made in 1998 and in 2002 another four and a half thousand appointments were made. Three and a half thousand appointments were made in 2007. From 2000 until now, in very difficult circumstances, there have been thousands of three hundred and thirty-seven ESDP schools with specialties, with innovative actions, with full-time programmes and a very positive result. In 65%, Ministers, of the school-leaving potential in primary education in these schools. When, as a PASOK, we were trying to support the operation of these schools, the current government - to remind us - SYRIZA, as a opposition at that time, was against and strongly criticised. When we were talking about rationalisation of staff and the strengthening of school units with unifications mainly held schools, you opposed them. Nowadays, you're bringing everything as a good generation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u168	You need to close up, Mr. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u169	Today, you are leading to unemployment, Minister, about four thousand alternates, three and a half thousand teachers, and despairing parents who cannot write their children in a full-day programme. The result of this arrangement will soon be seen and the cost is both political and operational. We will continue to support public school and quality improvement for our children, because it is the only investment in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u170	By letter from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Tassos's position as a special speaker is taken by his colleague from the same party, Mr. Ioannis Delis. Please, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. I must inform the House that the replacement is made for reasons of force majeure. Stavros Tassos cannot be in the debate today, so the replacement is made by me. First of all, I should like to make a comment on the statements made by the relevant ministers on the amendments. In relation to the JRC's amendment to Kefalonia, rejected by Mr. Friends, saying there is something similar to the law. Yes, there is, but it's not exactly the same. The Communist Party's amendment covers a wider area of needs, which is why we say it should be accepted. With regard to the amendment rejected by Mr Fotakis, on the unhealthy allowance, by saying what we are hearing as permanent eloquent from the ministerial and government lips, that 'the institutions do not allow us to do so, there are budgetary problems, despite the fact that we agree', I would say that it is the well-known tactics of tea and sympathy, but when it is to resolve a very specific issue - the unhealthy allowance we are talking about - there, then, immediately we have no problem rejecting it. Now, the bill we are discussing about research and other provisions actually deals with the entire range of education. It also deals with the production of new knowledge and its reproduction. It is no coincidence that it covers the range of kindergartens to scientific research centres. Although its provisions seem heterople, they obey a common sense, of course, a logic that falls on two axes. The first is absolute respect and subjection to the so-called financial adjustments, i.e. to the suffocating budgetary margins, which have not fallen from heaven, but exist and exist with the government's will and with its vote. And, of course, in these circumstances, with an agonizing effort and through the area of education, what we are talking about is not a neutral concept, because we are talking about capitalist development, which has everywhere and always its own laws. It presupposes, and includes, all these measures, anti-grassroots and anti-grassroots, which are culminating from tomorrow's vote here, in this Chamber, of the so-called insurance company, because it is in fact nothing but an insurance degradation. Of course, the people have already begun to give their answer and will give it even more tomorrow and tomorrow and the next period. Starting now with the question of research and, of course, within the articles, but also in the explanatory statement, it is said that this will help and that the knowledge and innovation generated by research will be a lever for the country's productive reconstruction and will produce wealth for the benefit of society. Come on! The conclusions of the investigation know that they are goods, and that is also demonstrated by the articles. All articles are watered by this spirit. They will be food, they will be exploited to make use of it for businesses to increase their profits, not, of course, to meet the needs of our people today, which in some cases are also pressing. On the contrary, the people will pay the results of the investigation and we are seeing this everywhere in the pharmaceutical industry, for example. In other words, the government's research policy as reflected in this law, which is, in fact, a follow-up to Law4310 and nothing more, nor the possibilities for developing research is liberating, but is serving and strengthening even more adapting to the European Union's strategy and the so-called European research development area. This is a European Union which, of course, has been at the very beginning of its creation, we know very well who it is working for. Business gain not only lives and reigns, but also has a perceptible place in the provisions and articles of the bill. Of course, we must not lose sight of the fact that because of this policy within the research centres themselves and despite the great words about the abolition of the complexity of the unacceptable labour relations, the blocks are cracking bones, living and reigning, and of course they are not provided for in this bill - and it is characteristic - not even the VAT exemption for these workers. We now go to the provisions for universities, for Higher Education Institutions. These are five articles. We have said that the Foundation Councils are maintained in Article 26. Just because it follows the bill to the rule of so-called fiscal adjustment, we have no money to give it, so we have to recycle, redeployment of the staff of what is in place, bring even peer teachers to teach at the undergraduate, since it is even more inclined to take advantage of the business of universities, we also have a more specific observation than specialist technical staff, with the so-called EIFs. Several administrative officials are already working as an EIF. What, in our view, should also be included in the bill is that, at last, instead of working as managers, they should also have the relationship of work, they should be restored and they should have the title of the EIF. For primary and secondary education, there was also a whole debate here yesterday and a controversy about customers in education, and a dividing line was also adopted. It is known that in capitalism there are no social goods, nothing is recognized as a social commodity except as a merchandise. Education cannot be excluded, and this is why class barriers to education are necessary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Mr President. If we really wanted education, health, a series of basic people's needs to be such, that is to say, recognised as social goods, then quite simply have to remove their freight character, to get the status of social goods. In Article 32 of the draft law, on the Committee of State Certificates of Languages, it is attempting to change the composition of the Committee. This is mentioned as an emergency. We have also told the committee, to say this again, in fact, what is urgently needed is the poor children of the backbone, of the people's families, of having free access to the foreign language and, of course, of having a free state certificate of language, so that they can finally get away from the fingernails of the great traders of foreign languages. In Article 33, we see mobility extended and generalised between levels of education, starting with so-called common qualifications, to work at the same time in both primary and high school, for reasons of cost savings. It's the financial adjustment we've been talking about. We would also like at this step to call on you, in Article 40, to have a fair arrangement for the non-return of money from teachers who were made available in 2013 - to conclude - and by recognizing this time as a pre-service time. Impression causes Article 41 on the making available of teachers in public IEK. And the question comes in a fierce way: Well, do we have so much extravagance of teachers that we can get them from both high school and high school and get them to the IEK when the gaps are large?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u172	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u173	Finally, with regard to the well-known Article 35, in relation to kindergartens, we have asked and asked for its full withdrawal today. The Minister told us yesterday - and he said so with a narrow voice - that no kindergarten is closed. Then explain to us, Minister, why is seven, the minimum number, fourteen? Untie us this question. It's the divider you said. Seven is fourteen. This, of course, leads to a reduction in organic and kindergarten staff. That's the real reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Delia, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u175	But here, instead of talking about the minimum number of infants, it is useful to talk about the highest number of infants. Think of a kindergarten - and one, because there are men now and well they do - in twenty-five, in twenty-eight toddlers, what they can teach.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u176	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade. You've taken three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u177	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. Finally, as far as the entire day's school is concerned, this school you have been preparing since September, which will have very fewer teachers, who will exclude children, will call it a single school full-day. Unique type yes, unique no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u178	The special speaker from the Potami, George Mavrotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u179	And then, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u180	Then there is Mr Konstantinos Zouraris, Mrs Theodora Megalo-Economist, and then, as I said before and unanimously agreed, four fellow speakers and a parliamentary representative will take the floor. Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Some of the comments on the articles I made yesterday in the general speech, so I shall refer to what has not been heard and I shall also refer to some of the things that have been heard by the ministers or that have been hidden. Let us start from the first chapter of research and Article 9, which relates to the seventeenth National Innovation Research Council (ESC). We think that there to better unify the area of higher education and research, which is one of the aims of the bill, it might be appropriate to involve the ESS, namely the National Education Council, which we have said in committees. In Article 11, an explicit legislative provision needs to be created, whereby new public research organisations are created, are to fall within the scope of the EBRD or even the EBRD. In Article 16, for staff, in paragraph 6, care may be added to the cases of MEDIs, to which the possibility of flexible working time, staff issues, may be given. It is a constant request from the Confederacy. On staff evaluation issues - we told the committees too - why would the process be closed by researcher II to researcher I? At the university by a deputy professor at an open procedure. Article 24(9) provides that the Investigations Committee may have up to 50% of the PPE's unsettled reserve for operational needs. That is something that certainly gives flexibility. We should, however, add to the provision: 'After the assent of the Foundation Council', because in any case the Foundation Councils adopt the budget and the balance sheet. And speaking of Foundation Councils, let's go to Chapter II on higher education issues. And I'll start with what I heard yesterday from Mrs. Anagnostopoulou. We heard her say that SYRIZA didn't dismantle the councils and alone they want to dissolve themselves. Let us return a little back, namely on 8 February 2015, to the programming statements of Alexis Tsipras where - I read from the Minutes - says, "In terms of higher education, the provisions concerning institutions are abolished, as this institution has spectacularly failed and violated the constitutional requirement of the university self-government". For the latter, of course, unconstitutionalism but the Council of State says. It's all right, though. It is neither the prime minister's first failure nor the last one. Nor was Mrs Anagnostopoulou yesterday able to retain her enthusiasm for neating - this very verb used - the councils. I read her words from yesterday's Minutes: "That we come to take care of the councils is something that the reality has created". But what reality, Minister? The built doors and the red paint your almost likeness to the offices of the members of the Foundation Councils or the targeting of teachers' posters and threats? We know very well that you have undermined and before you become a government and then this institution. Do not reverse the reality here, because we were present and we saw it. I see, too, a complex obsession with the teachers who came from outside to judge us. But not just from you but from the SYRIZA speakers in general. Why are you afraid to hear an opinion from Greeks for whom, otherwise, we are proud that graduates from the Greek universities ensemble the best universities abroad? Why do you want to send back those who have been unwindledly invited from home to serve the improvement of our universities? Are Bertsimas, Sifakis, Zumbos and many others on top of us? They're only good when they're far away to say, "What fantastic graduates do our universities make," but aren't they good when they come close to helping? Why don't you want their services? The truth is, you don't want to, because you want our universities to be your ideological tricks. You are making it quite easy - and some of the provisions in today's bill prove this - to the absence of rules, to the absence of accountability and control because you could and can control the administrative bodies by force. So the Foundation Councils ruined your soup. Let us go to another very important issue for universities, the Rules of Procedure and the Institutions' Organization. For those who do not know about the Senate together with the Dean, they are responsible for submitting to the Foundation Council the draft Agency and Rules of Procedure. And in the letters you were sent to you - you told us about them yesterday - the Foundation Councils in the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media expressly call it almost unanimous on this matter. A draft Agency or Rules of Procedure has never been tabled even though four years have passed. With Article 26, then, of this draft law in paragraph 6, you are trying to perpetuate this regime essentially by referring the rules to the bells. You say that until they are drawn up - without setting a time limit - the Senate will decide on the relevant issues. But how will he decide? Locked in the senator's hall until he gets the decision the kids want? This work you know, this work you want to bring back. And because it was an obstacle to this institutional counterweight to the councils, it was from the very beginning for you red cloth. That's because listening to the Minister yesterday, I thought I belonged to another planet, that I was working at a university in his country ever. And - by closing - why do you not tell us, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, and the name of the Committee of Wise Men who said yesterday that there are 'NEW YORK TIMES' and 'LOS ANGELES TIMES' these days for its practices. Where is it referred to and what offences? And tell us the name to know how to guard us. Besides, we speak with names and the meaning is. So the parentheses for the councils close and go to something else. In Article 28, paragraph 3, it is also a wicked provision concerning the responsibilities of legal persons, who are transferred to management and capitalisation companies - which are NLD - of universities and even retrospectively until the NPTs are abolished and legal persons under private law are operated, although we do not see that there is no intention of doing so. Because if there were, you would have responded to the letter sent from 19 January, the Foundation Council of the National Technical University, which has a ready draft Presidential Decree for the training of the Legal Personnel of Private Law. That was in the letter, but you didn't mention it yesterday. But let's also go to primary and secondary education issues. That is where I have not heard the Minister or Mrs Deputy Minister say anything about Article 33(7), which we insist. There it enables posted teachers to transfer to universities and TEIs as EDPS, i.e. laboratory and teaching staff. Hold that. But if it taught me something sports is to insist, and that's what I'm going to do now. So I ask again: why don't you take out the two photographic conditions which do not exist in the corresponding article 23 concerning the transfer from research centres to GDR, that is, the requirement for a two-year pre-service after the doctorate and the abolition of the five-year period between the transfers dictated by the Staff Code. In other words, open the way to more teachers and not just to those who have a chair. This is the fifth time we've told you here in this bill and you're still whistling. And this morning the work was completed. With Amendment 382/29 you are essentially making the EDPS assistants so that they can close the photography album. Let us go to the amendments and the legislative improvements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need another one or two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u182	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u183	In Ministerial Amendment 355/2, you hire journalists again. You think, rather, what society wants is communication. We don't think so. I am going to turn to some parliamentary amendments on higher education. With regard to Amendment No 363/10, which gives peers the right to take undergraduate courses which were accepted, it makes us first of all an impression that SYRIZA brings such an amendment when we have heard Mr Gavroglou, in all the tones, saying that basic care is how the university will open up to new doctors. That's how the peers will open up undergraduate? So we'll be negative. In relation to Amendment No 364/11, which relates to the selective bodies, we wonder why it did not come as a ministerial amendment. The issue of the election with the seven-member choice bodies was one of the diseases of the n.4009/2011 and should be changed. However, with an amendment without debate, without dialogue, without listening to our views? Isn't that one of the main issues of universities that we should discuss? However, even so, we propose two improvements. Firstly, there should be an explicit reference to the RESULTS system, and we should add the assistant professors. Secondly, the possibility of the three-member committee requesting evaluation letters for candidates should be explicitly put in place. An amendment on vocational training, which is thirty pages. However, they should have been in the bill, as an amendment at night, for the PCAs. We didn't even have time to see her. This amendment may be the best part of the bill, but we will not vote for it because we are actually rewarding the law-making practices that do not respect and underestimate Parliament. We have no doubt that all this will be voted on by the majority. Are you, however, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, happy with these legislative practices? Are you alone with your parliamentary conscience, or is it okay if work is done? And don't say that others did the same, because you've been overtaken by saying that you're the every word of the Constitution. You know your famous moral advantage is sinking into the mythical trick of your own children who are scattered in the bill, but also within these legislative practices of the harp - cola and the "the purpose is sanctified by the means" or otherwise the law justifies our legislative practice. And the weekend that comes to us you made sure that we had another example of this practice and we'll see you there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, I would like to ask why I should like to announce legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u185	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u186	I am making legislative improvements to the articles on technical education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u187	All right, so they can take a picture and share with the rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives, please. Mr Konstantinos Zouraris, Member of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u188	My respects, Your Honor! That is what I am saying, Minister Philly, that I am withdrawing the two amendments because I heard you before and convinced me of the reliance on the non-business of the two provisions of the teachers abroad and the other. So two of these amendments will not be tabled. I am also grateful to Minister Fotakis, who has finally restored elementary logic and justice and therefore my colleague will not be chased for the mistakes of bureaucracy. These are the amendments. But I have two - three more amendments, which I will keep, because I probably do not know whether the Minister of Friends has accepted our request for the dates of our educational colleagues by April. Did he accept her? Minister, have you accepted her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u189	Retirements have been accepted, Mr Zouraris.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u190	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u191	So I'm withdrawing her, too. Good. So I keep it for the Thessaloniki Seismological Institute, which I know is uncertain and wants to incorporate it into another bill. However, because the Seismology of Thessaloniki has a great tradition, I would at least like to present it here and, as I say, to remain, 'as an independent research institute' under the previous provision. In order to see my wonderful selflessness as a detonator, I did not even ask whether it was the pavements who suggested it to me. I've been so unselfish! The other amendment I would ask for - and I have the impression that it should be accepted - concerns drivers involved in the examinations. I don't know if it was accepted. Tenteen are overtime and they are calling for overtime because they are working beyond the examination phase. I'll keep her and testify. Therefore, after the earthquakes, this ended too. Because I want to do the favors to my friend, the President-in-Office, or the President, to buy him time, I will testify to them and I have nothing to say about them. [[At this point the Member, Mr Konstantinos Zouraris, tables for the Minutes the above amendments, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But I would like to remind you of the following. I was impressed by the intervention of the representative of the Communist Party of Greece for heavy and unhealthy work. I do not know if you have noticed that in the last six years, it is important and I am addressing most of the major controversy and possibly Europeanised in the evening, namely Esperia, a signal. With a morbid mania, the financeers of Brussels, that is, the lenders and the partners, insisted on the deletion of heavy and unhealthy people as a cost, while it was a corporation. It is certain that on the basis of the vicious sums they gave to save their banks, 95%, as TagesBlatt said yesterday, are decimal places. What's going on? It is very heavy and you must understand that and you must understand that we are not Europe, like them. Once, those who are and come by transferring "broken thoughts from foreign languages", as Seferis says, or as Elytis says, when they woke up "from the shortest space between five lyrics of Ibykos and five other lyrics of Kalvos and came out of their navels", Espera, the West and fell, "like mice in oil, in the rest of mankind" you should understand that you, Greek civilization, rheumatism, Gracia, the very East, are not Europeans like others. Plato, of course, says that we are the only Europeans for millenniums, but that is all secondary. Have you not noticed that, in any case, Bentham, Lo, all the Protestants, even Luther four centuries ago, are conquered with brutal, incredible racist, racial tension and hatred against the so-called “multiple ” classes below? "Poverty class may be dangerous" said the aristocracy six centuries there. And for centuries, the Protestant version of which is the manifestation of the dominant trend in Western Europe at the moment, has come to think that the disease and the heavy and unhealthyness of the following classes is part of the theocracy. The poor are punished because they are poor. These brutal, of course, do not exist in the New Testament, nor in the Orthodox tradition, but the obsession with which Western brokers insist on cutting heavy and unhealthy is about the great consistency of this spiritual sterilization. This is a stable Western tradition, that is to say, the link between social and economic neutrality and a mental and physical disability. Disease is part of punishment. And it is absolutely right, therefore, that the representative of the JRC, who insists that we, brother, should fight. We know that we are in possession and so on, but at least in these numericals of unhealthy people to set them up and say 'no', because the unhealthy section will not pass, because neither will you become richer nor poorer we will be. Neurosis is western neurosis, which expresses, precisely, the racist and anti-insulinistic character of the Westerns. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Zouraris. We are closing the list of special speakers with my colleague Mrs Theodora Megalo-Economics, a special employer from the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, we have become accustomed to saying that education is a multipathetic space and, unfortunately, that is the great truth. Education has become the favorite game in the hands of governments. The result, of course, is our children and their parents are living in a permanent insecurity. No one knows for sure what system students will be introduced into tertiary education in two or three years' time, or whether the high school will ultimately have two years of study, as the Minister recently told us. On the contrary, on one thing we must and can invest confidently: only in the new generation. We must do everything in our power to encourage young people, to excellence and to stay in our country. To study here and continue here to produce knowledge through research. Because, as we understand it, they are studying here with money from Greek taxpayers and, unfortunately, this money from Greek taxpayers is being exploited abroad. Also, the research and knowledge of our Greek children leaving abroad exploited by foreigners, we cannot exploit them. Therefore, the investigation in Greece should be strengthened. This bill, unfortunately, is supposed to be moving in this direction. But all of us are thinking about whether there will, in practice, be a change in the best way. Yesterday there was a lot of talk about excellence and it is really funny to discuss today in 2016 if our children really should take care of excellence. But of course, it's worthy of reason to want to raise our children to be the perfect one, and I'm not talking about being the best of an end. Every man, however, must try for the best, based on his or her ability. The scientist must take care of the best. The businessman for the best. The doctor for the best. The actor for the best. Who doesn't want to be excellent at his profession? Do we want to have a society of excellence? Everyone wants to be excellent and special in their field. Even the MPs. Each one strives to be excellent. I cannot believe that a Member or a Minister does not want to be excellent. Does he want to be worse? So our children, the students want to be excellent. In fact, in the private sector there are companies that award excellence. There is a Greek bank - I do not call it - which, for thirteen years, gives money to the finest people who end high school in all parts of our country. There is therefore the Future leaders, future leaders, which rewards and exploits young people and young people who are distinguished in their area. Two and three thousand young people are involved, trained and experienced. They are given an excellent opportunity. The perfect ones are chosen, about forty through two, three thousand, who are trained, divided into five teams and compile various joint projects in various organizations. A corresponding excellent initiative, where it gives a thousand, a thousand or five hundred people, is a subsidized postgraduate programme subsidized by companies and industry. It is implemented by the University of Piraeus along with the University of Polytechnic. It's called "Technical Systems" and it's between the Department of Economics and Electrical Engineering. They give thousands of candidates for this postgraduate and about a hundred are selected, who participate for free. If one doesn't pass, two semesters are expelled. It lasts two years and, as I said, it's free, so the perfect ones are chosen. I think that that is what the state must move: inspire young people, reward them and give them additional opportunities when they are afflicted and not disappointed. I do not think "left" is an insulting thing. Now as far as the articles are concerned. In Article 18 there is an attempt to provide additional incentives for creators and inventors with the participation of researchers in companies. But the wording of the article is problematic. It does not specify exactly what the researcher's participation in a company is, since there are statutory restrictions on the involvement of civil servants in private companies. This point must be quite clear. With regard to Article 24(6): Data, according to the explanatory statement, to provide support for scholarships to young researchers, and this is to stop Greek scientists from leaving abroad. Unfortunately, however, the bill does not take a step further and does not provide for anything at all to bring back some of the very many Greek minds that have left abroad. In Article 25, the Association of Greek Researchers informed us of a very unpleasant reality. For years there has been no researcher's post. On the contrary, positions have been abolished. In other words, we are talking today about strengthening research, and the truth is too hard. There's no new breath for research. There should therefore be a renewal and enrichment of researchers, i.e. there should be new blood, new ideas and, finally, a new impetus to the research process. Article 25(13) lays down a quota of 1/3 for each sex, both for young candidates and for the members of the various councils. As a woman and as a woman MP I support any action in favour of gender equality, I support equal opportunities and I think it is a good initiative in favour of women scientists. I would just like to make one point: some provision should be made in the event that there is not a minimum number of women. In this case, if the minimum number of candidates does not exist, the staffing process should be progressed properly. Article 35 deals with matters relating to the operation of kindergartens. It is therefore foreseen that each kindergartener will have his or her responsibility for up to twenty-five children. But who can believe that a kindergartener can safely watch twenty-five children for so many hours? I, as a mother, had three children and couldn't follow them. Can he watch twenty - five a kindergarten? That's impossible. The work of teachers and, above all, of infants is very difficult. A kindergartener has a huge responsibility when he takes care of so many young children. I therefore consider it necessary to reduce the large number of children per class so that a kindergarten can do its job properly and safely. Finally, I would like to remind you once again of the issue of assistant teachers, which has, of course, been postponed to be resolved in the future. I think we should at some point look at this issue at a time when we should look at it as a whole and definitively for these teachers. Overall, the bill seems to be attempting to create opportunities in the field of research. But many of them are doubtful if they will work. The greatest misfortune is that while there is human resources, the state does not provide the necessary infrastructure for the development of these scientists. And that proves the fact that Greek scientists triumph abroad when they find themselves in the right environment. In memorandum status, the only hope for growth is education and research. And we must go through this path to growth. Unfortunately, however, the Rusphoric provisions of the bill are more than the provisions that will lead us to the development and launch of the economy through research and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, I would like, please, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u196	Ladies are ahead of us. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, you first asked for the floor. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, Minister. You're the speedy one. I wanted to tell Mr Mavrota about what he said - I will not stay in the criticism he has made, I consider it unfair and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u198	No, I didn't give you that reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u199	No, I just want to say two things. But he said, and two, three interesting things, and I will only stand on them. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 382 and a special 29, I think it is right, despite the fact that many provisions on the EDPS, the EIB, the SPD, and so on, are included in this bill. In this I think it needs a wider debate and no positions that could be taken by young people, but also by those people themselves when they are being proclaimed. I am therefore withdrawing it and thank you for that. A second thing I want to say again to Mr Mavrota...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u200	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, what general number is the one you withdrew?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u201	It is the amendment with a general number of 382 and a special number of 29. Another thing I would like to say is that Article 28, concerning private-law legal persons, Mr Mavrota, has been withdrawn by way of legislative improvement...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u202	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u203	I can't hear you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u204	The text you have is the original. Legislative improvement has not been incorporated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u205	Yeah. Also to ask for references from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, of course, because we do not have any collective treatment for foreign teachers. Personally, I have been judged several times by foreign professors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u206	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u207	I would just like to mention something that is very important - Mrs Megalo-Economics mentioned it just before - for young researchers, because three are right. For many years there have been no positions in research centres. I therefore find the opportunity here and the Deputy Minister of Interior, with whom we have made these arrangements, to formally announce from the Step that the call for a hundred researchers' seats has been approved, fifty for next year and fifty for 2017. So that's something very important. I'd like to testify. And from the JRC they had been...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u208	Fifty for the current and fifty for 2017, not the next one since 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u209	It shall start with 50 for the 2017 budget and 50 for the 2018 budget. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u210	Mr Vernardakis has the floor to complete something in an amendment and we are closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to support the proposed amendment in which it is set up in the Press Office of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction two posts of journalists for the former Ministry of Administrative Reform and two posts for the Ministry of Civil Protection. I would like to explain this a little, because there are some misunderstandings, I imagine. In fact, they are recommendations. These were found in the organograms of the Ministries. But with intervention from the Financial Control Agency towards the end of the year, it was pointed out that it was precisely because there was a merger in the Ministry of the Interior of the former ministries that it could not actually approve the expenditure that these people were paying when there were and when there were. For example, the Ministry of Civil Protection did not exist. Therefore, it is actually a matter of reconstitutions, so that the normal payment can be made without any legal problem. It is not a question of extra posts that were not in existence, nor of posters' posts, nor of such a thing. I would also like to say that the expenditure burdens the budgets of the respective ministries. And they were already registered and budgeted. In other words, there is no extra burden. That's all I wanted to say. I should also like to make a point outside the competence of the bill: yes, indeed, as Mr Fotakis said, we have already approved the hundreds of researchers, because we really have to renew the country's research staff - it has many years - following on from the policy that has been done in the universities with the members of the LAGs, where five hundred people and five hundred people of the year, firstly they have to renew this old university potential of the country and give impetus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u212	Thank you. We're going in alternating, like we said. A speaker and a parliamentary representative will speak. We will see in what order the Members of Parliament, who are present, will speak. The first three are Mrs. Evi Christophilopoulou, Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis here is - and Mrs. Panayota Dricellis. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start, because they're also celebrating days, from optimistic and positive. The optimism is what Mr Fotakis told us about young researchers. Indeed, it is very important. The positive, Mr Ministers, is that the provisions on research resolve matters. That is why, as you would have heard from our rapporteur yesterday, we are positive about most of them. But now I come to the difficult ones. It is - if you like - and the reason why I asked to take the floor, because I did not have the opportunity to follow the detail of this bill, dealing with insurance. Minister, you have announced a great debate on education. You started him. We have made our criticisms. We were there, however, as we were always there in national dialogues, whether we were government or opposition. However, despite the fact that this dialogue - with your own words, the President and the Members - has been aimed at restoring planning for the overall education system, since then we have seen either amendments to unrelated bills, or now to the research bill, Chapter II, Chapter III, Chapter III. Why, Minister? Why now, and while the Dialogue Committee is meeting, should we deal with the highest? It's true that the tertiary has been seen. You're an elected government. You want to change tertiary education. Is that a way to block the blockage, to break the law 4009? We've told you before. It's not the perfect law. You could bring your own opinion. We could discuss this, however, in what direction we will make the HEIs more productive, more extroverted and more democratic, where there really is asylum of ideas, dialogue and research. These provisions, I think, are entangled again in history 'the department is the panorama'. If the department is the Panorator, we're going back to closed systems. We're going to universities that don't want to be an extroversion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u214	You don't understand anything from the universities if you're talking about the departments like this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u215	I don't understand. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u216	If that's how you talk about the department...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u217	I'm a little lazy, Minister, and I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u218	No, you're not a slut. You have an ideological direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u219	I'm a little lazy, and I don't understand. Okay, I don't understand anything. Okay, ma'am. You know everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u220	Madam Minister, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u221	As far as this Parliament is concerned, however, there is the right to speak. You have a right to disagree with what I'm saying, but you have no right to interrupt me. Let me finish with the other speakers and take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u222	Appropriations, as Mr Zouraris said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u223	But there is one plan, ladies and gentlemen. And this project concerns not only education, but everything. It's the equation down, because you are, Minister, the Left of Minor Effort. And that's what it looks like. In insurance, it seems that as much as anyone works, however much as he has, as the cleaner I have brought as an example, who has worked forty years in the private sector, he will receive the same pension as the one he has never worked for or worked for black. That's how you do to Education. Equation down. After Mr Balta's excellence and the standards, we now have the entire day's schools. Ladies and gentlemen, the addition in the middle of a class crisis at the primary school, such as for English firstborns in an oral speech and a game, is something that middle families were trying to do in the schools or - some who could most - with private teachers. Do you abolish this, instead of improving it? The extra gymnastics, the dance, theatrical treatment, the flexible zone, that's the problem, Mr. Philly? It's the crisis. I don't like to zero. I will not say that the Education has not suffered all the years of the crisis. Yeah, he suffered, but there was an attempt at public school, the primary school being better. Was it everything? Because I like to be accountable. It wasn't everything. It was initially in the twelfths, in the thirteenths 65% of the students, but had this access. At the same time, there was an effort you then demonized. What was the effort? Because this is our equation up. Two schools three-seating on a patio, one three-seat school across the street, while one, in a common school, meant that this semester would have a teacher in English, would have a gymnastic, would be a whole school, Minister. This is the equation upwards. What did you do? Not you, your predecessor, Mr. Kourakis? He's done that. All mergers have been abolished. We don't have teachers. And for some, too, the system is more equal. For who? For those who like to break the divisions. Give access to "My school", give access to the data to see that there are classes of seven students, of the eight students, of the nine students. But the whole day's down, so we can all go down. Let me remind you of the history of the train with the first place on the train. That's left history. I'm sure you know that. Shall we all go to the first place on the train, yes or no, Minister, or shall we all go to the last wagon? Because that's where you're taking us. This is the left of the minor effort, of the tanning of everything. Before I come down from this Step I would like to ask you this and I would like an answer: What has finally led you to make the intervention you are doing in the Central Examination Committee? I think Parliament should know. It is a process that has been guaranteed for so many years as improper. Where there were problems, we were running, I think, all governments in the best way possible to keep this process intact. I don't want to imply anything. Outside, there are families and kids who want answers about it. That, Minister, is why we are waiting for you to respond to the speech you have made to the Central Committee for Examinations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u224	How do you know it was intervention? Yesterday I answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u225	Intelligence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u226	Dialogue isn't made by Step. You'll be done by the Minister if he wants to answer anything, he'll answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Philie, you are disturbed by what I'm saying. I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u228	Not at all. You're out there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u229	However, I would also like to tell you that we are a little suspicious of you following the history of the elections of school directors, the elections that went down in the Council of State, after these stories - you understand - after the famous regional directors, most of whom were without biographics. On the contrary - because I like to be fair - I saw the CVs of some hospital managers and they are very well biographic. I don't want to tidy anything. But I want you to answer, because that is not just the case with the regional directors. It's the model of anxiety. Are you a SYRIZA unionist? You're done. You became a regional training director without any experience. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Quiet! Calm down! I have Mr Balta before he gives the two lists. Let go. The works and days are speaking to you. I want you, Minister, to give us an explanation why this has been done, because all years there has never been anything before the examinations, and now the subject has been raised. Are we bad? Did we bring it? Is that the opposition again? Somebody's to blame? Uh, no, Minister, give me an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u231	Minister, listen, I'll give you the floor for a minute. But every time an anti-population colleague says something, and you get annoyed, I cannot give you the floor to answer. Now, because I promised you, here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u232	It's not something that bothers me. It is something that exposes the lady who spoke earlier, but above all she is trying to create a concern for the Greek people. That is why I want a lot of time in this Chamber to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u233	Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u234	The lady was away yesterday. He wasn't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u235	We had the insurance, Minister. We had a committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u236	I'm saying you weren't here. I don't blame you. You should be informed, however, and you should not keep an issue which does not exist and only the PASOK officials have put it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u237	Mrs Christophilopoulou is one of the most conscientious colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u238	The newspaper "KATHMERINI", which was headlined yesterday, with vulgar titles, the subject, today, if you read it, is "catching it up".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u239	Leave the paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u240	The paper came up with that. No one else. Do you have any other information? That's what you're stepping on. I am sorry that the subject of the tests, which should be safeguarded as an eye daughter especially in this period - ten days before the examinations begin - you are trying on your side - only on the side of PASOK, I repeat, in this Chamber - to become a matter of concern for families and children. I repeat for once that there is no question that has been raised. As in last year, this year, there is the establishment of the committee. There is no intervention at all. I personally inform you that I am not currently aware of the names of the committee. And I don't have to know them right now. The committee's names are secret, they're classified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u241	Good. Don't eat any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u242	And whoever sets up a fight for its composition undermines the secrecy of the process. It's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u243	The newspaper has no representative in Parliament to answer you. It's closing down here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, I would like for a minute to speak because the Minister for the Examination Agency has not taken it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u245	Mrs Christophilopoulou, respect the colleagues who are waiting for us. It is, for example, Mr Loverdos who is next and will give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u246	I said, Mr President - and that is all I would say - that the Minister spoke only of the Central Committee for Examinations, not of the Agency. The Agency has not spoken and has not disproved anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u247	Okay. In his denture, when he closes, he'll answer. Ladies and gentlemen, if we continue to do so, you will speak less. We'll be done eight o'clock. Take it easy, then. We're fine. Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis, who expects his cartoon without protest, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much. The bill, also concerning research and aspects of education, comes in a period of shadow. We are talking about research and we are trying to reform research without production, that is to say, without a productive substrate that orders it. Why? Research is production itself, so it has to be understood. Research, an organic part of which is education and itself as an organic part of education - reciprocity - is production, is a form of production.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Sevastakis, will you give me a minute? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u250	If you keep it to me at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u251	Yeah, I'll keep it from your time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine German students from the University of Ulm. The Greek Parliament welcomes you. Welcome to the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor. You can go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very interested in moving forward, accepting such a position of research and education as self-regulatory, self-regulatory, because otherwise we will be trapped in a shallow interpretation that has been dominated for many years, an economic hegemony that says 'why universities, research centres are not linked, or are insufficiently linked to the market'. What market? There is no market in Greece. It is a subsidised market, a satellite in the state, which has no momentum, has no intensity and has no or minimum production of value added. So I would say that this bill has such a fundamental problem in Greek society, in fact. The second thing I would like to point out is that a way of financing the research is invented, or in any case, a way of financing the research is legalised as a kind of product financed by an NRP. The NRW is a political tool, coming from the top. The ESDP is a political decision. It's not an organic part. It can be, it can be changed, but it is not an organic part that gives rise to the productive need, which is created by productive reality, by the exchange of people, by the demand for good. Furthermore, the ESRB cannot replace what our country needs, namely the exchange, creation and demand of the good. With these considerations I want to see that the bill is trying to balance, to square the cycle, such as too many things, legislation, actions, acts, decisions made by the government under these circumstances, and I hope that the opposition can enrich with its right thoughts, long-termism and broad-mindedness. I would like to correct, to point out something to the Minister of Friends - as Mr Zouraris would say - about cognitive objects. Another range of cognitive objects and other examination hysteria that wraps them, i.e. the teacher, another examination. We need to get rid of this. We need to give cognitive objects, form people, but get them off the test. Also, in this direction we should see another school more collaborative, more collaborative, in combination, because the problem of the timeline is not the scope of the items, but the "time schedule", the time it takes and it takes from students. In this sense, therefore, I would say that we need to see the enlargement and enrichment of objects, not bankruptcy, but their organic interconnection into modules. That is the question, the cognitive units. The other point I would like to make is, in my opinion, an unfortunate link which is very often attempted by the opposition speech, the opposition speech, as Mr Zouraris would also say. Excellence is linked to entrepreneurship and is therefore being blamed on the government or on the left's ideological view of assigning it - because it conflicts with entrepreneurship - excellence. These are eases and wisdom. In fact, the answer is thirty, forty years since 1980, when the new university was formed. The answer is the bloom he produced. Our highest spiritual bloom is our most powerful exportable product. It is our strongest international witness, that we have made educated people who are competitive and who have a very high level. That's the denial. Entrepreneurship under the conditions of this sick credit system does not exist. It's a illegitimate concept. Entrepreneurship with offshore does not exist. Entrepreneurship with tax inequality does not exist. Entrepreneurship with favorable and state-owned business, also does not exist. It's a distorted concept. The notion of creator, businessman, who sees a social need, devises tools for resolving and without being hampered by bureaucracy, does not exist, unfortunately, in our country. We haven't earned it. It has not been won by the entire political system. I would like to conclude with a number of remarks, which begin with the amendment to extend the nominating bodies to the IGC elections. I am very interested in seeing the tools of fair security that go into educational structures. The larger the elite bodies, the fewer risks there are for control and mushrooms. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you the minute I was removed for the welcome of the students who are attending the meeting. So I say that it is very important in education structures to have multiple control tools, because it is our great cultural reserve. We are a country that is bankrupt, pressurized, demilitarized, and sometimes we have to manage a historical complex. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] So the piece of education, this spiritual goodwill, I think, is one of the most integer and what we need to guard them, to take them out of the political battle. I think that in this way we are defending ourselves and our political and ideological differences. Our ideological differences are a form of luxury, which we must not just suppress, but we must elect them and lead them to a high level of political rationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr. Sevastakis. Mrs Dritsel has the floor from SYRIZA and will be followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Karras. The other parliamentary representatives must also state when they will speak, because, as the previous President-in-Office has said, a Parliamentary representative will intervene every three speakers. Mrs. Drittelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much. Mr President, I do not always get used to it and respect my fellow Members and all those who have expressed their opinion, but in fact in recent special days because we have received very much misinformation in general, let me have a personal comment. We live in a surreal era where everyone can go out, say what they want without proving anything, apparently seeking to harm the authority of the government. But because I know very well as a teacher - and I know that here we are many teachers and too many parents - that these days, especially before the examinations, are quite psychofluorescent, it would be good if the pan-Hellenic tests were not chosen to make cheap opposition, because it is dangerous and impeccable. It would be nice for all of us to take this responsibility and leave that institution out. Yesterday Mr Dendias, for example, who is present, spent ten minutes of his twelve-minute speech in order to complicate us for our legislative work and the procedure that is being followed. He did challenge us SYRIZA MPs. It's too much, Mr. Teddy! We've been here the last time. It's too much. As long as I can tell you, for example, that on 4 August in a Summer Section, Mr.4280/2014, a hundred amendments were introduced, Mr. Dendas, without even being discussed in the committee responsible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u255	You have two hundred and twenty-five in semester.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u256	Please be very careful. When some of you - not you, I appreciate you very much and in general, all colleagues, I just set it as an example -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u257	That's what you criticized at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u258	Mrs. Antonio, I have not interrupted you. Sometimes when some of the anti-population colleagues and especially the Officerial Representation speaks to me, it reminds me of the well-known song "There are goldfish here". There are no golden fish here, nor are there goldfish in Greek society. On the other hand, in these twelve minutes you told us - and not only yourself, but also other colleagues from the New Democracy, but also PASOK - that this is a sloppy and lack of planning. That's why you don't have the right to talk, and I'm sorry to tell you. In your term of office, on your own government, the Minister at the time, Mr Arvanitopoulos, when he wanted to justify the unacceptable "ATHENA" project, went up to the Step of the House and told us that the problem of the country is the very many graduates, that this is our problem and we need to correct it. And you brought that unacceptable, for example, where the Forestry TEI was merged with the Furniture Design Department, that is, a student gave tests to become a woodsmith, and you would make it a furniture designer!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u259	Correct it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u260	Do you think it was because you had design and a big program and a wonderful vision for Greek education? On the other hand, I want to say this. It is an ideological issue, and that is what I accept all criticisms. It is also a matter of policy on how we approach public education and how you approach it. Mr Mitsotakis made, in my view, a mistake. You have every right to try to justify it. I believe, however, that it is an ideological issue and that this is how you deal with education, as opposed to the ones we are dealing with differently. I can only remember an example - because there is also a very great and fine interest and a great deal of attention for public education from Opposition, and especially from Dedicated Opposition, lately. There are many examples to which we can refer, but one thing I will say is completely political and I am not making any cheap criticism. Since the Government of New Democracy and PASOK has abolished too many specialities in technical education, which has made available thousands of teachers, it has left out in the middle of the school year thousands of students who did not know what to do, and at the same time the Minister of Education was inaugurating private IEKs with the same skills, it is very challenging to tell us that we are here to destroy everything. Mr Tindemans - and I tell other colleagues - when we speak, it would be a good thing to remember, but also to defend what we have done. We have started a very big effort. We have launched an essential dialogue, in our view, both with the student community and with the educational community and with society. You have chosen, and you have deaf ears, to leave. It's your right. I do not think, however, that the argument that dialogue is a pretext is valid. In my view, it reveals - and in the most clear way - the misguided arguments you have or the vision of how you want public education. That is what we are coming to fix, and that is why we are bringing legislative work in the middle of the dialogue, because many things need to be corrected from the then interventions, in order to take a step further for what we want, the very radical reform for education. The pursuit of this government - I hope, and I am sure that it is - is the building slowly of a huge and very high trust both with the educational community and with the school community, but also with the parents. And that we will manage and do with you or without you. Our invitation remains open. As far as the bill is concerned, I should like to say a few words about both things relating to secondary education and which have, of course, been very concerned by public opinion in recent years and by the media, but also by teachers themselves. First of all, there is the question of kindergarten, which I think has been very much analysed. Mr Philis has answered very much in this regard. The provision of Article 35 obviously seeks to strengthen the pre-school education of the country by introducing a number of broad criteria, so that they can also operate even with five infants, particularly in the province. Because I come from a mountain village, like many Members here, I know how difficult the situation is especially in the villages. It is very difficult - and I say this to colleagues who spoke previously from the Democratic Integration - because there are really schools that have five, six and seven pupils. But they're schools that have difficult access and you can't shut them down. No one has the right to think that these children are second-class students and we should shut down the school by force them to spend a hundred and fifty kilometres every day in order to have access to a public good, such as education. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We have also heard the bodies, who have basically taken their view that no kindergarten should be closed down. I think the Minister is committed to this issue. However, we must all agree that there are cases of irrationalism which we must correct. We must finally stop treating education or teachers as privileged and appropriate ground for customer treatment, as was customary. Finally, I would also like to refer to a ministerial amendment, which deals with the question of the permanentisation of Metropolis Trikke and Stadium. This is a solid request. After twenty-five years of operation of this Metropolis as a temporary one, it is finally maintained as a permanent one and thus a huge demand from the there religious community of Meteora is met, but of course the extremely great needs of the Meteorian religious area are also served. Finally - and I conclude with this because I do not want to abuse time - the bill is another important initiative towards improving many important issues that we have to deal with from now on. Its main aim is to strengthen research and public research centres, as well as researchers, but above all - and here we insist and do well to understand - the change in the country's research and education policy, for example. That is therefore the central objective. We finally want public goods that will have social recompense. Slowly, we are starting with very small but firm steps to achieve this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of the Group of the European Central Bank, I would like to say that, on the basis of the list of speakers, there are still forty-five speakers. On the basis of the eight minutes, we are far beyond the target of time that we set at the beginning of the sitting, namely that at 20.00 hours the meeting will be over and we will proceed with the vote on the bill. In other words, we are definitely going for 21.00 an hour, without at this time - or, if you like - to calculate the speaking time of the Parliamentary representatives, possibly their abundances, their speeches and much more interventions by the relevant ministers. So we will either take a measure now - perhaps, I propose - or there is a strong request that we observe the eight-minute period and do not go beyond it. However, we will have to take measures to limit speaking time in time. The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Karras, has the floor. Mr. Carras, excuse me for waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u262	You're welcome, Mr. President. I would first like to wish everyone a great deal of time. With many of us we have said this in private, but it is an opportunity to give everyone my wishes for a good success in our parliamentary work. I hope we all try to deliver this House. We have a bill, which is now coming with a explanatory statement that is trying to relaunch the morality of the government's effort. So what does it say? He says he comes to some parts to improve research and themes of primary, secondary and tertiary education. So I read it. I read that it seeks to restore injustices, stimulate research in Greece, which it considers to be a pillar of development. All of this gave me an optimism before I arrived at the texts, which, while remaining on the first page of the explanatory statement, was nevertheless an optimism, which, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, as I was about to read the explanatory statement and the separate provisions, was limited and I can finally say that it was zeroed. Why am I saying that? Research, an important part of the economy as a whole, for education, is unfortunately being dealt with ministries in this bill, with the inflation of administrative boards. It increases every number of previous regulations, which, unfortunately, in my view, is now malfunctioning when we have a multi-faceted body with fifteen, eleven, seventeen - of the ESRB, we are seventeen - members meeting. It's a luxurious instrument. It is not just an exchange of views there, it must also be a result of these meetings. I fear, however, that with the ministerial nature, in view of the fact that it will be proposed to the Minister three times the number of members and finally will be decided by the Minister - I have said about the three-faced person - it reminds me of old times - which of the three will take over the positions of the boards and the administrations, we do not think it can work. After all, the explanatory statement itself tells us what? That it is a fragmentary, perhaps sloppy, transitional arrangement, because there are subsequent arrangements, perhaps more serious, perhaps more coherent, but these arrangements remain fragmentary. I mean something. I mean, about the issue of excellence. There has been a lot of talk, and in and out of Athens, arguments have been put forward on both sides. Here, then, we see that excellence is no longer the result of energy, it is not the success of the project, but in the definition that you give Article 2 in case 3, excellence is the dynamic, it is the way to success. But that, in our view, is downgrading both the effort of researchers and the educational community, because they are now considered to be all walking the road, regardless of the success, the result, the purpose, many times that they seek, simply because they are on the way - if I am allowed to express themselves successfully. No, that can't be. There are in the Chamber and I see many university teachers, teachers of education, and all my colleagues, who, I think, understand the change that is taking place. This change does not give the high character required. Education is not just legislation, it is ideology, it is a purpose of life. Let's not degrade her any more. So I come to say a few remarks about the bill, beyond what I said in general. For the research centres, I see in Article 12 that many overlap their responsibilities with their objectives. So let us say that in future this issue will be dealt with so that we do not have parallel activities in the same areas, because there is a risk that we will not be dealing with other research areas which would be really useful. What has caused me a great deal of thought are scattered, I would call them provisions on special accounts. The special accounts, as the oldest of us in the Chamber know, have been afflicted by the Greek state for at least the last 15 years, and there have been tools for the fragmentation of public money. At some point when the crisis began, we said'special accounts for research purposes only'. Unfortunately, however, it turns out that on the way here these special accounts, the so-called PPE, have been used for unfair purposes. It impresses me - and I will comment on it, however much I wanted to avoid the debate on it - that I see an amendment tabled by colleagues - university professors, as far as I know, are most - and accepted by the Minister of State, and that speaks about the charges at the University of Crete. So I read the reasoning because I thought that some people are wrong, against whom some sums have been wrongly charged. The reasoning says that they had given some benefits from special bills to staff who were not entitled to, and had improved medical care. How, then, did the improvement of medical care become? It was contracted with a private insurance company. I wonder: Those who benefited from the dismantling of the special research account of the University of Crete - civil servants were also - the civil servant being cared for. So should they be in a 'aristocratic' accusation? We cannot blame and say that the public does not provide medical care. For God's sake! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, if I may, I did not speak at all yesterday. I'd like your tolerance to fill in my time. Thank you. So these people are taking extra medical care today - which I as legal insured, I do not have private insurance, and civil servants have no further - and today by means of a parliamentary amendment, they say: 'What have those who have ruined the special account'? Did they give a better medicine or give a better contract?’ I don't know. Let's give them an immunity today in charge. I think it is unfair that this amendment should not go ahead, because I see something else that concerns me in relation to the amendments. While the Minister, Mr. Friend, said in the explanatory statement that these arrangements are a part of which will also include subsequent arrangements and which will solve problems, I see, today, that they are vague and opportunistic, because colleagues are being used to bring parliamentary amendments to cover issues that should be a key body of the education law, such as a process for the selection and development of teachers of all grades in the HEI. For God's sake! With an amendment of a parliamentary nature! I respect my fellow Members, I respect them, I honor them, as I want to be honored and appreciated, but I do not think that the subject of the development of grades of professors, who go to our children, are studying, we want to make scientists, we demand success in the universities of Greece, we want them to have a high ranking, through an amendment that is opportune - I will insist - that they come today to give them a breakthrough. And I will end by saying something else, which has saddened me today, ladies and gentlemen. He truly grieved me, for SYRIZA seeks moral justice and breaks it down. An amendment is accepted, Mr Mitafidis' 933/37 - a teacher I know - who is supposed to try to restore an injustice to teachers who cannot resign before 30 June. Therefore, we will lose the insurance rights or reduce those which will restrict or cut them off tomorrow's bill, the insurance we are discussing, in relation to the insurance of all Greeks, in relation to the taxation of all Greeks. No, Minister, no, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that and you will allow me to do so. What are we doing here? Are we kidding ourselves? And why am I saying that? Because we are saying to give the right to those who want to give old pension rights, not to cut them down, but to vote tomorrow to cut down on all Greeks. That is what you want, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u263	They don't have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u264	Leave, Mr. Darkness, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u265	Please don't interrupt. Mr. Darkness, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u266	You're ignoring the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u267	To cut off all Greeks...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u268	You're ignoring the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u269	If you're strong, don't vote for the insurance tomorrow, don't vote for the tax. To plead for the rights of those colleagues, the teachers, who are being reduced. Otherwise, it's hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u270	Inform yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u271	It doesn't matter. I would therefore like to end, Mr President, by saying this: it could have been a success of the government. Unfortunately, it is used to serve small purposes. It does not improve research, it does not improve the issues of education. The House should be asked at some point to discuss these issues as a whole, not with emblematic arrangements for which there are many occasions and issues of legality, such as the legalisation of the University of Athens. There was a gap, but where did the gap come from? The question of institution councils. Let's not open this conversation, because it'll take a long time how it happened. We legalize something that we ourselves prevented from working. With these thoughts, Mr President, I also agree with the report by the Scientific Council of Parliament, which at least calls into question Article 26 in those paragraphs, which covers matters of legalisation and deletes the risk of nullity. I want to say something else in relation to the PPE. 'We will give' - it says -'50% of university needs bills, we will reduce research', a bill which says so that it wants to improve research. Colleagues, seek other resources to meet the needs of cleanliness, storage, university repairs, if you want to cooperate and assist in research. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Darkness has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be happy to say that today there is peace in the Chamber, a cosmopolitan, as President Leventis would have said, since yesterday the small and the parties were overshadowed. But let us see the landscape calmly, and let us not blame a very important story, such as research and research centres and the needs of education. In the human culture development process, curiosity, the search for solutions and answers to daily, as well as the undeniable need for progress, prompted man to investigate systematic phenomena and applications, thus organizing sciences and arts aimed at improving his life. It is necessary for research to be carried out on the basis of moral principles and to be based on respect for scientific principles. It is necessary to be a concern of the organized state through research institutes. It is an obligation of the State, in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution, which states that art and science, research and teaching are free, and their development and promotion are an obligation of the State. So here is not neoliberal egoism, and the market's almightyness is questioned. What market, anyway? Unfortunately, in the situation received by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, a number of important parameters for the uninterrupted operation of the investigation should be corrected. We are called upon to address functional problems created by No.4310/2014. Ladies and gentlemen, the theory, while helping the act, the practice, can at the same time swallow it, swallow the act. If we build a theoretical framework of tough, neoliberal - I will say - and we demand the reality, the practice to fit into it, then we have a perfect theory, but we have failed to "then". We are inadequate and inefficient. A first step, therefore, is being organized in this draft law to overcome these problems, so that research and technological development can be linked to society and return to it and, of course, to address the consequences of the Memorandum policies which have brought malfunctions to the research web of the country, suffering research and researchers. At the same time, research should be'refreshed'. The democratic participation and control, which is guaranteed by this bill, facilitate the establishment of bodies on better foundations, abolishing the over-concentration of powers, which has been in place so far, in order to achieve better functioning. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it important to set up regional research and innovation councils, namely, advisory bodies to implement and support the national strategy for research and technological development at regional level. Article 8 thus deals with the customer logic established by the non-functional and non-representative councils provided for in the previous law. The procedures for setting up the boards of research bodies shall be simplified, with a view to their optimum functioning. Article 13 reduces bureaucracy. The setting-up and reconstruction of the administrative boards is defined by decision of the person responsible for research, Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs. Article 14 shall ensure greater transparency and involvement of staff in the process of evaluating the work of directors. A report on the work of the directors, which will be carried out by all the staff of the research organisation, will then be presented with the Minister's report on evaluation of the excellence. Easy things, stunning things to cover political poverty! Article 24 deals with the financing of the research and technological bodies of the higher education institutions, while a hard effort is under way to support the research in the Greek universities, which have been so afflicted by the memorandum policies of recent years with the bravery, unfortunately, of reductions in funds in which the present has been captured and from which we have been free in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, research can only have a political colour and orientation, that orientation and that political colour, which requires that effort, science and the results of the work of researchers back to society. It goes without saying that the research project serves public interest rather than private interest. And another thing: It is necessary to ensure transparency, dignity and democratic operation throughout the system of activities of research centres so that we have won important gains for the benefit of the Greek people rather than at the expense of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that opposition must make opposition. He's here to fight against. I have heard from the committees, but also from this Chamber. I will remain in the, awkward and out-of-the-eye position of the representatives of the New Democracy, noting that one or two positions were sober and that they contained many essential points. But the vast majority have been consumed in locations and evaluations, which have nothing to do with reality. I understand it's the New Democracy line, the personal tops. You're not helping. Since you are unable to degrade our policy, you are attempting to degrade the faces. You can't do anything with this. Ladies and gentlemen, in assessing as highly positive and important the draft law on research and other provisions under discussion, by assessing it as a bill, which ensures that the results of research are unfettered and hopeful in our country, I call on you to go beyond the small, narrow and party regulations and to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. Mr. Michelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many of the interesting points have been made yesterday in this Chamber. In addition to some graphics, which repeat themselves on whatever subject we are discussing, I was triggered by the opening of today's debate on the ideological differences, which separate the right from the left-wing view. Look, the right view puts the market as a priority. For me, it makes sense for school and learning to be viewed as a merchandise and I was not surprised by Mr Mitsotakis' position at the respective conference and by Mr Vorides' interpretation here, which I considered to be an understandable interpretation of their view, not, of course, acceptable to us. The left-wing view puts society as a priority, which is why we are talking about as a social provision in education, which our educational system provides. The right view of the individual is dominant, so when he talks about excellence, he speaks of the student's excellence. The left-wing view is collective, so when we talk about excellence, we are talking about improving the whole education, the educational unit and the university. As far as education is concerned, a right-wing visa when it says education means training. The discussions I hear here and the suggestions are, put English, put French, put technology in, put tools. Talk about education - education - I hardly heard from anyone. I'm closing this chapter to go to a second. On the basis of the arrangements for kindergartens, I think it is a part of the whole, called a school network in the country - and I shall speak very briefly. The school network in the country, ladies and gentlemen, has been expanded to a very large degree, mainly in the province and rural areas, through the implementation of the reform in 1975, which made nine-year-old education compulsory, separated high school from high school and thought - and quite reasonably - that each village must have a kindergarten, primary, absolutely and high school. This reform has resulted in, within a few years, rapid educational contests and all the cephalopods being filled with schools. This reform and the subsequent ones and Law 1566/85 have led to a maximum improvement in the quantified levels of education. I also told the Committee on Education that I was a student in the sixty-fifth grade, I was a first-time teacher in the ranks of thirty-five and forty-four, I was a school director and teacher in the classes of twenty-fifths, but we never made an evaluation of the quality of the education. So, has the continuous improvement of quantitative levels improved the education provided? It is a question that should come out of studies and not from desires or placements. Today, however, we have new data that force both the previous government and our own to see the whole question of the reform of the school network. In this spirit, I think, too, the reorientation of the number of nursery schoolchildren. It is acceptable that some colleagues say that organic positions may be lost. And I ask the following question: What should we see? We should see the school's operation not as a school unit. If that's the way education, I'm afraid that in the future teachers will stay out of work, because it'll be done through the e-mails and computers. We need to see the school as a socialization unit for the students, so as a team's function. We should respond to what is the maximum and minimum number of operations in the group. I from this position to say that the maximum number - twenty-five - which is foreseen - and I think that the economic difficulties at the present moment are forcing us - is great and we should see it coming down to twenty or fifteen in the future, but I think there should also be a minimum number required for the group to operate as a group which will socialise the students. I do not suggest that they should be in kindergarten on difficult mountains, islands and areas. They need to stay there. What I am saying, however, is that the economy of scale, which a colleague has said, must not today be underestimated in today's conditions. Finally, I close my speech with a few issues, which I have experienced in thirty-three years as an instructor. First, the Central Committee for General Examinations, the Legal Committees for the Examination of General Examinations, what people say 'Panland'. Every year it's formed, it's not permanent. Each year it is made up of one criterion: old experience remains, remain with less experience, enter new ones. How? With proposals from the training directors of the fifty-six counties to the relevant departments of the Ministry. A committee, which remains itself, leads us to the 'Rammos' phenomena - the ones who do not remember it - which has leaked the issues and fortunately from there, and then these strict measures have been taken and the phenomenon has not been repeated. Therefore, any journalists, newspapers and our politicians today raise such a matter, firstly, or ignore it or, secondly, deliberately put it in order to create a turbulence. I'm putting this off. Substitutes. Mr Colleagues, the deputy until 1980 - I told the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media - was the specific teacher, who is reluctant to give a specific speech at this school. Mr Contoyannopoulos then invented the word 'additional' to make appointments outside the nomination process and that was extended. Today, times of memorandum, no permanent appointments can be made. The only response to the problem is permanent appointments with procedures and rules that we will see. I'm done. Regional managers. All I'm going to say is "thank you"! I've lived this class since 2000. 2000 was the law, 2002 the first application. It was of the choice, of the individual minister's confidence in all times. If that's not appropriate, let's see it, talk about it and change the law. Getting out of former ministers now and preparing that SYRIZA put his people out, but what did the previous ministers say? It's very simple to finish with this conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr. Michalis. Mr Sarakiotis has the floor and immediately after the speech by the Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Theocharopoulos. Here, Mr Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again this government, having completely discredited the 'Cassandras', who wanted it to be weak and reluctant to take serious reform initiatives, continues determined and unequivocally determined and demanding reform programme, which it had announced. Following the major health initiatives, the evaluation in the public sector and the broadly ambitious insurance and tax reform, launched, is vital to the society of education, research and innovation. In these two intrinsically linked areas of education and research, the draft law, which is being voted on today, attempts to make a first important legislative intervention. The Government, through the Ministry of Education, recognises the undeniable role of research, the promotion and enhancement of science, the spirit and by extension of the social constitutionally fixed asset of education and dedicates most of this bill to arrangements with an urgent and transitional nature of legislative intervention in the fields of research and innovation, as well as to individual operational issues of primary, secondary and tertiary education. The specific rules concerning research and finding the research community almost comprehensive form the original preparatory package, which were considered necessary in order to address serious problems created by the previous government's resolution of No.4310/2014. While, as we heard yesterday and by the mouth of the Deputy Minister, Mr Fotakis, two more key bills are being prepared and submitted in the near future, which will complete and seal the primary importance that the government attaches to the development and strengthening of research and innovation as a lever for the country's development by exploiting its high quality human research and scientific potential. Imported arrangements in this area, with the extensive modifications, which bring about the ultimate inadequate, vague and dysfunctional prevalence of research centres, restore and ensure the proper functioning of research centres and, more generally, release the possibilities and the human potential they have, in the light of the scientific quality and the pursuit of real excellence, while the possibilities open up to attracting and supporting valuable young scientists and researchers, who regrettably see themselves leaving our country in the last few years, unable to survive in a dramaticly under-funded system which devaluates them systematically, not providing them with the minimum conditions to stay within the walls and provide our place with such important scientific capital. The provisions which have been introduced in this case are in line with the exemption from past contagion, which undermined the development of research in our country. With the measures being put forward, through this draft law, I believe that the way forward for the necessary overall reform in the field of research and innovation is opening. The first emergency transitional measures are already adopted. It improves the functioning of the research bodies so that, on the one hand, it encourages the attraction of renowned scientific and competent management and, at the same time, ensures control by any arbitrariness. Reformed the structure and mission of the National Research and Technology Council, which is renamed, but also substantially reformed, to Research and Innovation, thus emphasising its advisory role in developing a national strategy for research and innovation. Work is being dealt with, which extended the work insecurity to the research and administrative staff of the research centres, while in general labour relations for research staff are being improved, creating attractive opportunities especially for young scientists, in order to prevent the serious outflow of new scientists abroad. Direct openness and existing or emerging malfunctions are addressed in the flow of Community funding and the functioning of research bodies. It promotes democratic participation and transparency in the control of the functioning and the way in which the various management bodies of research centres and bodies are established and decided towards a significant strengthening of the role of researchers, with a view to transparency and integrity. At the same time, the draft law lays the foundations for the development of a long-term framework law for research and innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very confident and very optimistic that this bill deserves the universal acceptance of this House, because it is a legislative initiative, which only improves the existing legislative framework and moves, if anything, in the right direction, to strengthen a human capital that is an undeniable social need, but also a palliative demand to support all sacrifices and promote further. This is no more than the globally recognised high scientific and research potential of this country, the new Greek scientists in both positive and theoretical humanitarian sciences. We all need finally to agree and support in practice a development policy that, among other things, will prioritise the country's serious investment in research and innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr. Sarakiotis. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Reconciliation, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u279	Every four of us had said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u280	Now let's not argue about it being four or three. In any case, the number of parliamentary representatives is specific. Besides, I think they have the right to ask for speech and embolism. The world isn't broken. If it was said for four, consider my own mistake I said every three. But I don't think that's so important. You keep the time, because if we continue in this pattern, that is to say, going beyond eight minutes, we will have to take measures in no more than one hour. In fact, I am already thinking of proposing that we reduce by two minutes the time for everyone on the list to speak. Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have also referred yesterday to developments that we have in our country and to the level of negotiation. There will be an in-depth discussion this weekend. Let me just say that what the government does first - first of all: it wants to legislate this weekend. What we want to say is not to do again: to vote and bring the Greek Parliament to a state of affairs to clear up what it has voted for, because we have done so over the last 15 months and honour no one. And I say this because you - as we said yesterday - said that the evaluation should be completed early, that we should not achieve anything in these months, which we are now, so Parliament should know all the data when it comes to the final stage. Unfortunately, the way you negotiate and the way you bring the bills is exactly the same as in 2015. Nothing's changed. The only thing that's changed is the particular person who's gone. It's not the problem of Barofakis. The problem is a logic, which the government has, a logic, which is the same in 2015 and 2016. For the truth, I shall refer to it today - in a post by ECONOMIST. In order not to think that it is defamatory for our country, at the end - and it has enough negative - it results that many members of the euro area even today do not want to discuss debt relief. And that's unacceptable because it looks like it's not just Greeks, who don't change. It therefore blames the euro area countries, which do not want to discuss this issue. However, the title is: 'In the same work of viewers in the negotiation'. Why do I mention it? Because it tells features that the slogan - and so it is, ladies and gentlemen - of "wedding but Greek 2" applies right now in our country, where we see as in 2016 as in 2015. It says the threats to early elections, if creditors don't back up, look like a repetition of the same film.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u282	Who says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u283	The publication ‘ECONOMIST’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u284	Yeah. Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u285	The ECONOMIST central publication today. That is why I am telling you, because I think we should also have knowledge of international reality, beyond the party newspapers, which, of course, are very good to read. Continuing, the government has gathered enough cash to pay wages and pensions, making raids on independent bodies. We keep telling you. You are raiding at the moment again on the fund reserves, so that it cannot pay off public debts to the private sector, so the private economy is having problems and creating a vicious cycle of recession and unemployment. That's the reality, that's what we live. It also states that in reality the biggest obstacles are political and not legal. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras is facing a uprising of 50 three of his MPs, led by Euclid Tsakalotos, the Minister of Finance. That's what he says. At the moment you have a SYRIZA parliamentary group to solve this particular problem. However, the question is that the problem of negotiation must be resolved, because it is not possible for the country to live in this situation and to be hostage to such situations. That is why we must finally try to provide solutions with structural reforms, progressive reforms, which we have analysed you in many areas of policy, including in the field of education, and have not gone ahead with them. And, of course, it mentions this post - which many people are currently reading in the world - that banks are still zombies in our country, that other structural reforms have been postponed and that private investors are still a long way from Greece. And then it mentions the need to write off public debt, to which the euro area countries should go. At the same time, you have not come from what we have heard from this amendment - from what we see, you intend to reduce duty, which from 9,545 to what we are hearing, we do not know what will happen at the end - you agree to go to 8,646 euros, when the Minister of Finance himself said that, with nothing will be reduced - it is his'red line' - under 9,100 euros. I hope that it will give you an initial explanation of this change, if it occurs and if it is exactly what I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u286	Since you're saying the Minister of Finance has done an insurrection, what do you explain to give?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u287	Minister, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u288	So, you agree? It's interesting. According to Mr. Philly's logic, Mr. Chakalotos is insurgent right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u289	Listen. You said that. Don't be smart. For five minutes, you said Chakalotus was being rebellious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u290	You're welcome, Minister. There will be no dialogue. Ask the floor, Minister, to place you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u291	How, then, is it possible for the Minister of Finance to bring tax reductions to 8,646 at the moment when he said what he said over the past period? That is why we are accusing you of supposedly negotiating and tell you too many times that this is not an effective negotiation, but a communication. In short, instead of talking about the ten million of our fellow citizens, you are talking about the hundred and fifty three Members alone, about how you will convince them at this time to vote for something which is, in fact, painful because it constantly puts the bill up to over 10 billion for pensioners, workers and the unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to you yesterday, and I did not get an answer, and I asked that only the specific ministerial amendments that you have tabled should be withdrawn. I refer to two ministerial amendments you tabled at 19.00 this afternoon. In fact, at 21:00, you brought me legislative improvements. They are late. But I haven't got an answer. So to stop this candy, which I heard before and after SYRIZA's MP, they had an old hundred amendments. First - I proved to you, in a specific way, what happened and what happened in that particular period. Secondly, uh, it cannot come, as you say, the Left in the governance of the country, and keep saying, we will do exactly the same, but some would do the same at some point exactly the same with us, to be the only argument at some point. We will either decide to function as we have to, or we will not decide. I therefore come to the amendments and to specific points which we have raised on them. As regards the Ministry of Education's amendment, the relevance of postgraduate qualifications in special education and education, of course, also has positive elements. We did. However, we read here, for example, the letter that has been sent by members of the Special Educational Personnel Board, who are calling for the withdrawal of the amendment on a point of view, which could easily say something about this argument. It says, at all times, that the opinion of specialist educational staff and specialist staff is always ignored, that the issue has not been discussed in the Committee on Forensics - and we say so to you, of course, and when such legislation exists - that because the Institute for Educational Policy is acting in an advisory capacity, it cannot adopt administrative acts. On these questions, concerning the salary development of holders, the Staff Councils are responsible for the matters. And an additional argument which, unfortunately, when it is first tabled here, cannot be discussed in the context in which it should be discussed, that is, in committee phase, in the meetings. All these issues cannot be analysed, as you should have answered and explained. As regards the amendment from the Ministry of Labour, we have asked you to withdraw because in the explanatory statement - I am referring to the transfer of organic positions from the Welfare Secretariat - it was stated that the proposed regulation does not lead to expenditure on the State budget, whereas the Report from the State General Accounting states that 100,000 euros are being spent. Is this a cuff? We have asked that this problem be corrected, so that we can support it. I now come to the Ministry of Labour's amendment to the Children's Housing Foundation. The recital says, 'to deal with sustainability problems'. And what does it bring? Does it bring changes to the members of the board of directors, so you can ask yourself: Will the Foundation's viability be guaranteed by increasing members of the board of directors and by increasing the members needed to form a quorum? Is this the way to improve sustainability? I shall also refer to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Interior - which has been discussed - to staff the press office, where the whole problem of merger seems to be that. In fact, the amount is quite high in particular for these conditions today. For we have heard, of course, that this is also about the previous years. Especially for today, this amount is too high and should be reviewed. I think it is EUR 32 000 per person per year, for the two people, and therefore it should be re-examined.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u292	Clearly it's 22,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u293	As far as the amendment from the Ministry of the Interior, which Mr Balafas has explained, of course, there is no doubt that these proposed regulations are necessary to protect sensitive social groups and we will support it. When it comes to such matters, it is clear that we are particularly sensitive in this matter. But we need to see this situation. These amounts and gaps may not be continued indefinitely and may be covered by a derogation from these provisions. There must be proper planning in time. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] In conclusion, because I do not have much time, I would like to mention the following. We have told you yesterday and I would like to stress to you today that, as far as the first part of the investigation is concerned, we will support it in general. As far as the second and third parts are concerned, we do not think that they should have come to this bill and, in general terms, we do not support them. These, of course, will then be reflected in the vote on the articles. What I would like to stress specifically concerns two articles. Firstly, I would like to dwell on Rule 26, on which the Scientific Office of the Parliament also says that it is considered whether these provisions become retrospectively legal and whether all the relevant legislations are in line with the constitutional principles. I would, however, like to focus on Article 30, which is also considered by the Scientific Service of the Parliament - if you do not want to hear us - whether the proposed provision - and I am talking about Article 30(7) of the draft law - is in line with both the constitutional principles mentioned above - the concern is that, that is to say, as well as with the principle of equality, since, in this case, the proposed provision does not lay down a dutyless and abstract rule of law, but is an individual regulation of specific cases by way of derogation from Article 4 of the Constitution. The question is also whether this arrangement is in line with the principle of full self-government of higher education institutions in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution. It should also be noted that the reason for the regulation is unregulated. Why do I report this? Because they show that there are serious issues which have not been solved, which are least caused by sloppyness and should be dealt with. Of course, I have heard the arguments in relation to the amendments, which were different between ministerial officials, whether or not they should come to such a degree and at such a pace. Mr Balafas told us here that he's apologizing for this. Mrs Anagnostopoulou told us that this is the case, because there are many loose ends from the previous governments, that is why we are bringing in amendments. You understand that this does not honor all the Members and the Members of SYRIZA. That is why we must also change it in this respect, and the Bureau of Parliament must also help, especially in the Conference of Presidents, but also in order to stop this matter. Finally, on the argument, which is heard by ministers in relation to regularity, that we are not in a period of regularity, I will say that you are right, we are not in a period of regularity, but I wonder now: did you remember, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u294	Mr. Theocharopoulos, I would like to tell you that you have already used your dentistry as well. In other words, you have exceeded the time you requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u296	What do you want, Mrs. Vaki?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u297	I would like to use my tritology, which is three minutes, to say a few words about what has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u298	You'll talk later. If you want, take the word for both three minutes for both five minutes and eight minutes. We have reached agreement on the procedure. Only on personal grounds would I give you the floor. There was nothing personal to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u299	I have a right, as a parliamentary representative, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u300	Politically, of course, several things have been heard by the parliamentary representative, Mr Theocharopoulos. But I am telling you again that we will not break the order that we have agreed. The three Members will speak and, of course, then, if you wish, I would be happy to speak. Mr. Excellency has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today is clearly transitional in the area of research. It does not include the government's overall reform proposal. It is a first step, so that we continue and move on to a new framework law, concentrating our national strategy and promoting the interconnection of research with society and productive reconstruction with concrete and targeted arrangements. What is the current situation in the field of research? You have brought - and I refer to today's opposition, New Democracy and PASOK - a law in 2014, Law No.4310, which could justly call it a monument of ambiguity, inadequacy and confusion. A law that found ambiguities, contradictions and institutional gaps. In addition, you brought him here in the wilderness of the research community, which is not surprising and you drugged his execution. And one more law remained practically inapplicable. We are bringing the bill today, a framework law - a framework law - a long-term framework law, after genuine consultation with the academic and research community. And we are trying at this stage to heal the failures in which you have been succumbing to the 2014 law and to form the conditions for a new law that will follow. The area of research has been marked on your day by serious malfunctions, overconcentration of powers, work insecurity, arbitraryness, opacity. By the law you brought in 2014 you also captured the Memorandum Policy and the years underfunding the research. You have linked the percentage of public funding to research centres, to the results of their evaluation, following your well-known punitive logic, which is not, moreover, limited to this area alone. By this law of 2014, you clearly described your "vision" for "entrepreneurship": Public structures in the service of researchers, who "business" without safeguards for society and the public interest. You enabled research centres to fund directly, with a simple board decision, high risk companies to receive loans from banks, funds, etc. In addition, you have made progress, unsatisfactory, in deregulation of the labour status of researchers, removing the permanentity to grade one and two and providing the possibility of resolving the work relationship between the IASCs, without even justification. As for the management of research centres, decision-making methods, organ formation, etc., you returned even further behind and the founding law on research in 1514/1985. We, ladies and gentlemen, in today's bill, are moving in the direction of rationalisation, democratic legitimacy, democratic control and state supervision. I will not deal with the individual, which has been analysed by colleagues in the areas of research. I'm going to the second section of the education bill. Ladies and gentlemen, higher education has been facing a major crisis in recent years, which has taken place in reducing the state subsidy, undermining teaching staff and other staff, and leaving young scientists abroad. In addition to the unfavourable economic circumstances, however, we also have to deal with an inadequate, unclear and inefficient institutional framework of operation. Our bill aims to take immediate measures to cure problems arising from the implementation of parallel laws since 2011. We regulate urgent and management issues, we do not respond with this bill to the question of overall restructuring. The overall new institutional framework, which will condone our philosophy, our own different concept of the production and dissemination of knowledge, the linking up of higher education to productive reconstruction and social needs, is all the subject of the dialogue on education, which is under way. We are not in a hurry, because an overall reform and reorientation of higher education takes time, study, discussion and processing. I could mention some indicative measures of this bill, such as issues regulating the administrative functioning of universities. We regulate issues relating to scientific, teaching, laboratory and technical staff of specific categories of universities and of the TEI. We regulate issues relating to the proper functioning of universities. Especially for the Greek Open University, we provide the opportunity to reconstitute contracts for work or work in order to restore the immediate collapse of the operation of the University. We're setting up State Scholarship Foundation topics. Finally, in the third chapter of the bill, we regulate primary and secondary issues, for the proper functioning of the school units and for the smooth conduct of the examinations of the state certificate of language, and we regulate staff issues for teachers. I shall refer, for example, to a number of specific issues. We are dealing with issues of experimental and school standards, allowing the gaps to be filled in a timely manner with permanent teachers of increased qualifications. We give permanent teachers, with highly increased academic skills, the possibility of switching to SAD category posts, which, given the financial obstacles to the recruitment of staff at SGEIs, is clearly beneficial for their operation. We are dealing with issues of the Lifelong Learning and New Generation Secretariat and its supervised bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, I have raised last issues which have caused intense debate - I am sorry to say this - and the attempt to exploit micro-groups on the part of counter-population. On the issue of kindergartens, because many have been heard and because of the deliberately or otherwise - a confusion and has been attempted - let me say it - the disorientation of public opinion is clear. For remote, inaccessible and remote or difficult accessible areas, we reduce the number of infants, corresponding to a kindergarten, from seven to five. For the world, living in the province and in remote villages, this is a huge facility. As regards the number of 14 infants in relation to the seven, planned for the rest of kindergartens and expressed the understandable concern on the part of infants, but also unfair and unjust criticism from the opposition, we must be honest: this regulation, in fact, if you look at the existing numbers of infants per kindergarten on the ground, will find that it will not lead, rather than to minimal mergers, to large urban centres. Come see, after the law has been implemented, whether the total number of kindergartens currently operating in the country has decreased or vice versa. Why, then, the creation of a climate of insecurity in kindergartens and parents, much more so, with the addition of preschools, will not be at risk in practice with the closure of any kindergartens? Finally, on the question of subsistence recruitment, the solution that has finally been chosen, contrary to the initial planning of the Ministry, has clearly shown how differently we think. We do not impose solutions against society, and I am absent from society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u302	Your Excellency, please, finish it. You've already exceeded nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u303	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have our ears open to citizens, we hear their anxiety and ultimately take into account the suffering of substitute teachers and the high cost - material and mental - which have been paid over the years, fighting to 'build' their service, we weigh the needs and we are willing to revise, if the need demands. It would be nice not to shake the finger so easily, you who have kept a multitude of educational hostages in the past six years. I'll be a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u304	No, in a minute, Mr. Excellency. Please. You're talking about nine and a half minutes. This is at the expense of colleagues, you should know. I have warned for too long that we will need to cut time. If you insist, what else can I do to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u305	I didn't see her for others, but it doesn't matter. I would just like to make a reference to the amendment, concerning technical schools, the PES, the amendment concerning n.4186/2013. The outlets, which have been given to pupils in technical education, which in recent years have considered second-class citizens, second-class students in the amendment tabled by the Government, I think it is in the right direction, as in the post-school year optionally, the preparatory programmes for the certification of graduates in the post-training year, the possibility for ESDP students to have access to HEIs and TEIs. Finally, I think that it is in the right direction to accept the amendment on the retirement of teachers and it is a question of dealing with the same category of insured persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u306	Mr Kontogeorgios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I turn to the issues relating to the draft law under discussion, you will allow me to make a general remark. Over the last few days, curiously, we have heard the government's majority attack on opposition for its criticism. Ladies and gentlemen, you must agree that democracy is how it works. The majority governs the state, legislates and the opposition judges. You have to withstand this criticism because it is necessary to correct it. Let me not remind you of your earlier life in the opposition benches, when every initiative, then, a government majority had a general mob with unexplained characterisations. Should I remind some of them? Traitors, germans. When you hear the criticism, you flew like a burnt chestnut! Ladies and gentlemen, you must know that you have brought society to the bars and you will be accountable to society and every Greek family. You will no longer take out this aggression within Parliament, but you will take out your apology towards society for what you have said and you have done nothing in fact. I now come to the draft law under discussion. One would expect in a normal country, in a modern European country with a democratic government, for issues relating to our national education to be reasonable in what it itself announces self-respect. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, there is no self-respect in this government. She announced a national dialogue on education, she wrote it in her old shoes and continued with five legislation during this dialogue to demolish everything positive that has been achieved in our national education over the past years. No one claims that all the problems were solved or that there were no problems, but there is no precedent here. As a result, it has been achieved with great effort and overwhelming majorities within the National Representation today either in the form of amendments or of legislation for no reason. I will give you an example of the priority given to our national education. Even in the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on grazing land you have brought so many amendments, amendments and regulations for our national education, which all of us of the Opposition of the country of origin have taken the view that this is where you rank our national education and its perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion is a piece of legislation written on the knee. If one excludes the first chapter, which can accept that it may have some arrangements, which may remove some obstacles from previous Law No.4310/2014, the rest of the legislation is arrangements, dismantlings, demolitions of the previous institutional framework governing our education as a whole, completely eroded, with the sole aim of "photographic" provisions, the provision of special interests, personal arrangements and - if you like - the turbulence in education, the demolition of education in general. Because you're going to tell me that these are general crises, I'm going to give you something specific. I do not know if you have read, Mr Minister - you, Mr Fotakis, Deputy Minister, who is here, and thank you, for presenting the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament. I am referring, for example, to Article 28(10). It is a photographic layout for the previous dean of the University of Athens, Mr. Peglerin, who wrote the laws of the state earlier and made his own administration at the university. You retrospectively come, you, who are evangelizing legitimacy, merit at all levels and morality, to legitimise the then illegal acts by means of a photographic provision, at the time when the Council of State has delivered its opinion on such cases and states the following. I'm reading you self-determination. ‘The legislature may, in any event, not, in the light of those constitutional provisions, in the light of such retrospective arrangements, establish a amortisation of the requirements arising out of those rules for which final judgments have been given or pending proceedings before the appeal court or which have not been brought before the appellant, because otherwise the dispute would be removed from the court pending, in breach of Article 26 of the Constitution, and the principle of the last court rulings and the principle of equal treatment of the parties to the proceedings would also be infringed. In the light of the foregoing, it shall be taken into account whether the proposed provisions of the above paragraphs and articles that make all relevant regulatory acts law retroactively applicable to them are in line with the constitutional principles referred to above.’ In other words, the provision you are bringing is completely unconstitutional. And as if not all of this were enough, you have the demand from all of us, with such "photographic" provisions - which could be termed "photographer" political leadership, as was heard yesterday in plenary, but you would even claim the Pulitzer Prize, if such "photographic" provisions were laid down - to agree with you. Uh, no, it is not possible for us to be the swimming pool of Siloam for all the previous illegal acts brought by universities, higher education in a bad mess. And as if not all of this were enough, we must recognize, of course, the great ability that you have to baptize black and white and at the same time, since you are putting the whole society in conflict, have the courage to say that you are also having problems. You abolish the entire school and tell us that you bring equality everywhere throughout Greece. I am addressing you, colleagues in the province. Did you go to your villages? Did you go to your towns? What did you hear from our fellow citizens? What were you told all this time at holidays? What are the things you're doing? You were driving the whole society crazy. You were insane parents, teachers, teachers, students. And you come back with another reason, with another commitment from the Minister of Education that no kindergarten will be closed. Bravo! We are very pleased, Minister, but this is not how the institutions at home work, with the wishes of the Minister concerned saying 'I will not close any kind of kindergarten'. These are the words of the cafeteria, it is not talk within the national Parliament, nor about institutions fortified in society, which govern the functioning of education at all levels. You remember, of course, a very successful slogan in a last advertisement, because of your ability, because in the "photographic" provisions and amendments that serve individual interests you are "multiple normal". We are not going to participate in this logic of yours. Personally, I say before the national Parliament that I am voting against both the articles and all the amendments tabled. It is a rough piece of legislation, written on the knee, which serves individual interests and personal arrangements. In this sense, I will not contribute to this great - if you will - shame on our national Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u308	Mr Fotakis has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, I am pleased to announce a legislative improvement. Article 24 of the draft law adds a paragraph, paragraph 14, concerning the Institute for Geological and Mining Research, the IGM, and the Institute for Computer and Public Publications. There were some objections from the institutions. What has finally been done in this legislative improvement is that it is determined that they can be financed exclusively from European and international resources or private funds within the scope of paragraphs 1, 5 and 7a of that Article. Also, the amendment of a general number 405 and a special number 48, which had been accepted by the Minister of State, Mr Friend, this morning, is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u310	What amendment is being withdrawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u311	Clearly say the numbers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u312	The amendment under a general number 405 and a special 48 is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u313	Is that a ministerial or a parliamentarian?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u314	She was a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u315	So Amendment No 405/48 is withdrawn. Minister, I would ask you to testify to share the legislative improvements you make.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u316	I am tabling the legislative improvement that I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Eliopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech on education, I would really like to express my concern that the PASOK and the New Democracy are fighting with SYRIZA for the recapitalisation of the banks. And it is for laughter, for the Greek people to watch, to blame SYRIZA for the recapitalization of banks, when PASOK and Yorgakis Papandreou put us in the memoranda, along with New Democracy, for recapitulating the banks so many times. We are the only state in which the recapitalisation of the banks goes into public debt and does not take on board the banks, and yet they have the courage to come here, in Parliament's Chamber and to identify them for the recapitalisation of the banks. It is a crime, which when it comes, because at some point Golden Dawn will come to things, will sit at the stand of the defendant all those responsible for this case, as will so many others who have reached our country forty years in this evil mess that we all experience today. For education, I would really like, in addition to the technical details, to be told here by the ministers - he has also left the engraved friend - their vision of education because there has been a debate on education. In order to initiate a debate on education, we should also know what the government's vision of education is. We are clearly saying that our vision is to restore education to national standards, to become a national education. There was even for the guys - and you did well because it was hypocritical - in the Ministry's title, it was called the Ministry of National Education. That word that you removed - and I repeat that you did well for yourself, because you would be hypocrites if you had it - for us it involved the whole essence of education. That's where our vision of education ends. A dialogue on education should therefore be launched. Of course, you have allergy for everything that has the word "national" and "national". You don't mind. You're pulling pistols out. What can we do? We don't have that allergy. That's our ideal. And I would like to ask this - but you see it lacks - the friend or the Prime Minister of the country, the Members of the New Democracy and all parties. Since this education you have been building for all these years, public education - why are you legislating mainly for public education - is so sufficient why are you sending your children to private schools? Why do you send them to private schools in Greece, colleges and then send them to study abroad? Don't you trust the education you've been building for so many years? You are MPs, you rule for so many years and instead of sending your children to school that you care so diligently, send them either to private or abroad. These, I know - because today there's a strike - no one's going to hear them. I am simply saying it to be recorded in the Minutes and all the Greeks know that there is a party in Parliament, which says things the way they are. You don't trust the education you're making. It's over and out. I was listening here yesterday to the undocumented Deputy Minister of Education saying there's going to be an Aesthetic Class. What aesthetic treatment do you communists mean? Communist aesthetics? Because the aesthetic that you guys have in SYRIZA is ruining us, it's bothering us, you're ruining our own aesthetics. In your public life the way you act, the way you dress, you spoil us our aesthetics. And you want our children to learn aesthetics from you! Of course, I suppose you will mean in communist standards, in North Korean standards or something like that, because it does not explain otherwise that you want to introduce such a lesson in particular. This education, of course, over the 40 years, as you have created it, has excite Romans, Ruviks, such as your favorite child, the Roman, who supposedly wanted to study and have eaten us in here. You dismantled Parliament, dismantled society, burned the place to study this good boy and made you an announcement the day before yesterday and said that "the only solution is the armed struggle" and "go out and start and kill." These are your kids, you've been defending in here for years. And, of course, these kids have grown up by your own education. You have a responsibility too. Now, of course, you have left the aristocratic krone and you are "the Memorial uber alles", along with the indirect killers, the loan sharks, and you have no reason to defend these people. We, of course, are clearly in favour of research and of technology and of all these things, which should in fact be tools in the hands of our young people once the Greek state pays for their studies. We raise them here, we study them, and we do well. So these useful tools should be a headline for their lives and should not force them to leave abroad. Hundreds of thousands of Greek students, with degrees, are leaving abroad to find their chances, because here we have become more than two million unemployed - 60% more than the rate of unemployment among young people - and, furthermore, we have nothing to produce. It is logical that a country that has stopped producing, a country that actually does not produce any wealth, should not be able to employ its children. You bring an article, Article 45, to abolish the punishment of those who hinder the smooth operation of school units. You've become the schools and universities a clear vineyard. We are not talking about party youth - it is a huge chapter - which has been thrown apart for so many years by universities. However, whether there are or not there are, universities and schools are a clear vine, with the asylums and with these legislation. Why should there be asylum in the universities? Why have you done gazes of lawlessness at universities? Why is any city that has a university plagued by crime and lawlessness instead of university being a cultural valley? That's what you should answer. Of course, there's no answer. The rhetoric is the question, because these poor texts will continue to exist as long as those governments are keeping them up. As far as the entire school is concerned, you want to abolish these too, because you do not have the funds. You will definitely book this article some kindergartens. And one of the most dangerous comes out, because the friend is also a nationally dangerous minister - who when he opens his mouth on the spot commits himself five historians with what he says - and promises us in the air that he will not shut down the kindergartens while legislating. The law she brings says they'll be in kindergarten. It says the law that's brought about the closure of kindergarten. Otherwise, why did he even bring him? Nevertheless, he promises us that no kindergarten will be closed. Who? He - not him, the whole party - who said he would tear out the memorials, that he would bring practicalists who would abolish the memorials with an article and all these very nice ones. He's making fun of us, and he wants us to trust him for whatever he says. Of course, they will only book kindergartens for Greeks. They will close these kindergartens for Greeks living on the border, living in remote areas of Greece. And instead they'll open kindergartens in the centers, in the hot spots, as you say, to make them look good. There they will open kindergartens, they will open schools for people who do not want - people say it - to learn our own education and culture. We save and well will do them kindergartens by closing kindergartens for Greeks. I will close with the most important one - and I will not abuse your time - a problem today in Greece, which is called demographicism and will have to be solved immediately. Already, from what the Statistical Office says, things are irreversible. We should do everything in order to make it reversible, to make it a positive balance at birth, because now deaths are overcrowded by births. A Greek city is lost about a hundred to twenty thousand inhabitants each year from this negative balance. We should all help together, perhaps by legislating directly here in Parliament, so that the third and multitude allowances can be reintroduced. This will, of course, be done - we do not deplore the fact that you can do so - with a national government, which, as I said at the beginning of my speech, will soon come a national government which will reintroduce all these helpful measures for demographics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u319	Come on, Mr. Heliopoulou. You've already talked about ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u320	I'm done, Mr. President. It will restore national education for all Greeks. And by closing, I would like to say that the only power that can save our country today has a name, Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u321	Mrs Katsavria-Siopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after what has been heard in this Chamber and trying to draw up the main points of my speech today on the draft law being passed, I have received a letter which I have found particularly interesting and I would like to read to you instead of the position that I have taken, as I think its content helps us to bring back to our memory events that we have experienced in Greece over the past twenty years and thus to decide on the next few years. The vote of each law is another stone in the building of the state and requires a clear and correct knowledge of the structure, static and history of the building. I read the text entitled 'Great Greece 1996-2014' as it stands: 'Strengthening the new millennium, the country had already achieved convergence towards the average European standard of living by over 70%. Government officials had won a position at the meetings of the Eurozone, namely the hard core of the European Union. Everyone was possessing and possessing, as citizens had held the hard but precious currency of the euro. The social state had spread a safety net for all. The institutions of social justice constituted a solid basis for social cohesion. Health, welfare, education, research and culture were the property of all without any distinction. The wind of democracy, freedom and transparency drank everywhere and inflated the sails on the journey to the "The Earth of the Promised". The stock market reflected the dynamism of the strong economy. The large projects confirmed the entry into a new 'golden century'. The conquest of pan-European football and the Olympic Games marked the greatness of modern Greece and reminded the self-evident link to the proud past. And as the years flowing to happiness, the great governor and his crew got tired and handed over the wheel to another governor with a new crew and fresh ideas. The course continued to be upward. The state was re-established. All economic and social conquests have been widened, more democracy, more freedom, greater transparency, greater national pride. Still, the governor is tired. He handed over to the next one, too. He even left him a lot of money, so much that the new guy at first didn't know what to do with it. He, however, had excellent friends from whom he received advice in and out of the country. A Greek who replaced him when he was away on many journeys advised him to share the money and eat it all together. Another foreigner with an elegant accent and obvious weakness in worldly pleasures - advised him not to share it all, but to invest the rest in bonds, so that they might reap if they needed it in the future. The leader was then embarrassed and decided to consult his counterparts in the Eurozone. When they became societies of his wisdom and soundness, they took him out of the difficult position and gave him the keys to the ECB. Now he has no reason to worry. He could also run all public affairs from the gym's comfort, but for some strange reason, perhaps because he needed a little more personal time, perhaps because he believed that the end of the story had come, the leader decided to share his responsibilities with his old friend and student, but the leader of the rival team. And as no stranger to the benefactor, much more valid in politics, the student managed to take the wheel and responsibilities of the country, with the help of some of the incompetent friends of the former leader, as they say. The partners, seeing the achievement of the new leader, who meanwhile incorporated the opposing team, asked to meet him immediately in order to tame their curiosity, much more so when the information described him as an expert on the success story. The leaders of the euro area were so eclipsed that they handed over to them other than the ECB and the central banks of their countries. And suddenly, a Sunday of last January and while wealth and abundance and despair flooded every corner of Greece, the unexpected event occurred: A huge black veil spread over the country. Uncircumcised red lightnings shattered the sky. Many have discerned with horror that SYRIZA’s incomprehensible letters should be deleted into the horizon. Several others stood apart from Alexis Tsipras, when in the form of Leviathan and when in the form of Charles Marx or Engels. From the biblical catastrophe that followed, few survived. After a long time a rainbow was formed in the blue sky, and a seagull told his figment that after the flood some saviours were seen at the end of the road, which were evangelizing a new era. Few people believed them and felt they could live more well. But we have lived worse." After that, my position on this bill is his self-evident vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mrs Siloropoulou. Mr Loverdos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, may I speak after two speakers, if possible? I give my place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Loverdos, let's see your request, but Mrs. Asmakopoulou follows, who obviously didn't know your request, and then she's Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u326	Mr. President, may I speak as Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u327	On the basis of the list of speakers, it is Mrs Kefalidou's turn. Mrs. Kefalidou, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u328	To make it easier, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u329	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u330	Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a pity that the government itself has every chance of consensus. And in this bill, it is betrayed by slander and permanent inconsistency of words and works. Only in this are you consistent, gentlemen of the government, in your inconsistency. You have declared the national and social dialogue on education. You advertised him. You flagged him. But where are we today? Started with drum impacts, four dialogue committees. Somewhere along the way you found them dark. You're supposed to keep going. In the meantime, Parliament is legislating. Why? Because it's all pretextically. But what's wrong? You know what? You are voting today - you are voting tomorrow and everything you forget is added to either an amendment or an amendment to a next bill, preferably for grazing land! You brought a lot of advertised and well-expected research bill. You took sixteen months to bring a patch to Law.4310/2014 some of the provisions of which are admittedly positive. It is, however, characterized by shortcomings in important regulations, in particular with regard to the development of the national research system, the resurgence of the continuing leakage of Greek scientists abroad - in the Greek Brain Drain - and the safeguarding of basic reforms needed by the public research area. So we have a bill that amends provisions by giving a breath, but without a clear targeting, a clear strategy and without solving the very serious and real problems of Greek researchers. With such preparation and given that you recognize as a key lever of development the link between education and education with research and technology in a modern state, we would expect an innovative, modern framework law. Obviously, this is also a reference to the obvious future. Ladies and gentlemen, the research area, commonly accepted as a development vehicle in the country, presents many shortcomings and distortions mainly due to the absence of a strategy for its development. The two main pillars, the EITs and the research centres have been developed individually, without communication and without interaction. In Greece, the memoranda, which you already understand is that magical solutions do not exist, yet there are still performances of research centres and excellent possibilities, provided that they are linked to higher education, entrepreneurship and the real economy. These issues had to be regulated by the research bill. From the bill, as always, private research bodies are missing. You have an allergy to this matter. And the question is how can you support the linkage of research to the real economy and how can you design a framework for private and public cooperation in research, since you do not believe in them. I have some points in this bill. Footnote first: A lack of costing is unacceptable in the arrangements you bring and there is also reference to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, which states very typically that costing is impossible, as the Ministry has not provided the necessary information. Secondly, it remains the fragmentation of the country's research web in various ministries with different institutional frameworks. There is no single institutional framework for their operation. Thirdly, a positive step, Minister, the legislative improvement you have brought with regard to the USSR, the National Research, Technological Development and Innovation Strategy described in Article 5, in order to be voted on by Parliament. But it's not enough. The vision's missing. On the occasion of this, I would like to refer to the amendment with a general number of 382 and a special number 29, which was accepted and then rejected. This amendment covers a gap that exists in relation to the development of an entire sector, the EDPS. The fact that Mrs Anagnostopoulou initially accepted it shows that she recognises the problem. Withdrawal shows that there is no daring on the government to solve real thorny problems. We don't like exclusions. We want clean procedures that show the best. And we expect that there will be an initiative by the government to solve the EDPS issue. It is a branch of homogeneous nature, as it has from secretaries to people with doctorates - who unfortunately under the law have no chance of developing. Let's go to Article 26, Part II. That's where you picture what you see in the institution councils. Consistent with your ideologies, you remove them from responsibilities. We shall continue with Article 30(7). Since when can individualised legislation within the limits of unconstitutionality be accepted in a rule of law? And I'm talking about student relocations for health reasons. And it's an issue that we really expected you to have solved much earlier through a previous law that you've brought about the relocations. We propose that we draw up a bill allowing exceptional transfers for humanitarian reasons to special categories of vulnerable groups. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] As far as Article 33(7) is concerned, I think it will appear whether or not the provision is photographic. However, while you are giving preconditions to transfer to assistant university teacher positions in primary and secondary education, you do not mention anything about the damage that will cause both primary and secondary education, stripping it essentially of the most trained staff who will no doubt flee for the HEIs. Since when does he have more staff in mid-education? If I am not mistaken, you need about twenty thousand recruitments, according to the Ministry's statements, which cannot be carried out. Nevertheless, you set up a provision for the transfer of teachers to the IOA and of course continue the recruitment of posted friends and relatives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What, though, can one expect from a government that the Minister of Education is giving up the Central Examination Committee ten days before the Pan-Hellenic Examinations and instead of expanding the institution of the full-day school, is being abolished overnight? Obviously, this is how the government perceives the upgrading of public school. After dissolving standards and experimental courses, primary education is now in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u331	Mrs. Kefalidou, please, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u332	I will end in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u333	Not in a minute, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u334	I'll be done in half a minute, much less. Thank you for your understanding, Mr President. Instead of teaching skills and foreign languages, our children will be left on the noon radar from 13.15 ́, and parents will have a race to ensure that they can provide care and, in particular, with money they don't have. Public school benefits, for which you are cut, go back decades. Somehow the average high school student, instead of adequacy in computer and foreign languages, will acquire skills in cafeterias, bricks and pavement. You'll tell me, "Why not? With these qualifications in Greece some have built a whole political career." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u335	Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I'm telling you, because I know you had an institutional meeting at the Ministry. We have discussed several very interesting things about research, such as the interest in having this institution of the Secretary of Business Research and Technology in Greece as well. We discussed the possibility of creating 'Technology Transfer Officers', 'clusters', strengthening and financing entrepreneurship in conjunction with innovation and research. Where we were discussing all this, I told him that in the House - he knew it - there is a debate on the research and technology bill. So, of course, I had to tell him what today's bill includes. I must say to you that at the time I was in a difficult position, but I think that the law is to use the words of the government as shown in the explanatory statement, which is that what we are discussing today is essentially a transitional legislative intervention. You characterize it as a first step forward in the development of a new framework law. You characterize it as a shift towards planning at some point a coherent national strategic plan for research, technological development and innovation. You said that in your position, and now that we officially know what we knew before, that you do not have a national strategy for research and technology, the first question is when you intend to acquire. How many times does the left government need to get a plan and a technocratic approach to its implementation? You know, I'm talking about these pedestrian things, axes, timelines, these. This is therefore a transitional intervention and a first step. I will agree that it is a first step. It is a first step in the field of research and technology, such as the first step you have taken in all other areas, in going to a model of detention, in a reorganisation of the Minister's face, with the abolition of merit, transparency, with the control of administration at all levels, through the creation of customer relations between the respective managers and staff, and yes, it also marks a shift - I am clarifying 180 not 360 degrees -, in the practice of the 1980s with the reintroduction of provisions of Law 1514/1985. This shift is a particularly negative development. Why? Because it is clear as to the linkage between research and the entrepreneurship and the productive sector promoted by the n. 4310. From your idealism you have almost abolished the word "business" within the law everywhere. This law of the Samara government emphasized both excellence and democracy and transparency, but mainly aimed to create competitive advantages in our country, by interconnecting research with the production process and boosting the private sector. With your bill, what you're promoting is not a turn. It is a revulsion from private bodies, entrepreneurship and interaction and synergy with public research. And because, you know, in the New Democracy, I have the responsibility of the area of growth and competitiveness, Minister, I will ask you what I ask both Mr Stathakis and Mr Haritsis. You who are Europeans - and you are not yesterday in these matters, Minister, and we have recognized this from the New Democracy - from where will growth come if it will not come from innovation linked to entrepreneurship and production? Is he coming with photographic and transitional provisions? No, he's obviously not coming that way. What exactly do you do about it? With the ESDP money, what exactly are you doing with it? I shall refer to a few things that are well known to those of us who have been involved in these Community programmes, with the ESDP, with the Framer Programmes for Research. Within the Europe 2020 strategy, we have this flagship initiative, indeed, of the European Commission, the Innovation Union. It also shows this notion of smart specialisation, a concept and a strategy which in the language of the Community is ex ante heresy and must be fulfilled by the Member States so that we can have financial support for investments from the ESI Funds and from the ERDF. And it has been prepared for our country and I am tabling this strategy in the Minutes from the Ministry of Development's website. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And I ask: why is this unacceptable government delay in making use of Community funds - why, if this heresy is not lifted, say it simply Greek, we cannot use the money of the new NSRP - as well as the lack of any strategic planning to combine these funding with the tools from the Juncker package, leverage through the EFSI, cooperation with the European Investment Bank? Here too, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing the disastrous combination of ideology, improperness and ultimately impotence of the Government. I am presenting myself to the Minutes, Mr Minister, a communication from the committee dated 19 April, that is 15 days ago. It is entitled 'Declaration of European industry. The full benefits of the digital single market’. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I am focusing on Chapter 4.2 ‘Common investments to enhance digital innovation capacities’, where there is a combination to promote digital innovation hubs - EUR500 million from Horizon 2020 to digital innovation hubs - where the Commission announces that it intends to strengthen the role of PPPs, to coordinate pan-European research and innovation efforts and flagship projects, large-scale joint projects. And I ask, Minister, who is he dealing with these issues? Who's doing something on these issues? The answer is simple. Why are you laughing, ma'am? The lady is laughing. The lady is laughing for a reason. You want to tell me why you're laughing? It didn't seem to me, I see very well from the Step. That's rude, Minister. Tell your partners, please, with a little greater courtesy when someone from the opposition speaks. Instead of laughing, you might do something about all this, because the answer is simple. You're not doing anything. You are taking transitional, photographically, taking care of your own, taking us back to research, education, technology. That's what you're doing. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. You tell us that your goal is to turn the children and the young scientists, who have studied with labor and sacrifices of their parents and are now scientists. That's what you're telling us. Do what? Can they ask SYRIZA to appoint them to a scientific body that controls them? Or join with you in SYRIZA's new communication campaign entitled "Growth is coming"? Because that's what this is about. Our kids will be back one day. At the moment, what turns around is the Greeks' back on populism, lies and inability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u337	Mr Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u339	What do you want, Minister? Any clarifications?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u340	Yes, Mr. President. What is not known, and I have mentioned it in the debate in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. Without going into history, because it has nothing to do with our own governance, what I can gladly announce is that hereticism with regard to the EMRP, the part of the ESDP, has been lifted for ten days. There will be a wave of notices in relation to the ESDP very soon. As for other comments made by Mrs Asimakopoulou, because I am well aware of the Community's issues - and I was also the chairman of the committee who had written the committee's study on the subject of 'The role of universities and research centres in smart specialisation' - unfortunately I do not have the opportunity to explain them to you in time. It will be a great pleasure, however, to discuss the common good and to understand the details. However, things are not exactly the way you described them. I can tell you that. It's a little more complicated than that. Mr President, on this point I shall present for the minutes the legislative improvements I have announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u341	Mr Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I hope that what you have said to do directly in the Committee on Research and Technology, where I chair and invite you from a Step. So the area of research and innovation, ladies and gentlemen, is constantly growing in Greece, even in the midst of a crisis. The Greek research web is very high, with significant successes in competitive European programmes, despite the lack of national policy and resources so far. With a high degree of extroversion, innovation and research can contribute to the development of a new model of sustainable and productive development for the country. However, its research and spiritual potential have been hit, both by the negative interventions that the sector has accepted and by the continuing political cuts. It is characteristic that from 2008 to 2015 we had 68% reductions in research. The bill that is currently being introduced for discussion is a necessary regulation to restore the problems that have arisen in the functioning of the country's research centres by applying Law No.4310/2014. The active amendment of this law was and is a dominant demand from the research community, and that is what we are doing today. It's actually changing the whole of an investigational law. It is obvious that the bill does not come to reflect the government's national research strategy. After all, Mrs Asmakopoulou pointed this out a moment ago. In this direction, however, the Ministry's political leadership is committed, that there will be - and there is - a broad dialogue with the research community and the university community in order to maintain a democratic and progressive framework for strengthening research in the country. I hope very soon that we will disprove these Cassandras, Minister, and that we will end this and that the Vice-Presidents will not be concerned about it within our term of office, which will end after three and a half years. Basically, this bill is our attempt to dismantle a scoundrel, anti-research sweater that the previous government has made. I want to briefly quote some of the changes and innovations that this bill brings under discussion. It restores to the philosophy of the law the role and the mission of our country's research bodies as research bodies dedicated to the public interest and not as operators of the research. Academic and politically ambiguous or even incorrect definitions that were introduced into Law.4310, such as basic research, excellence and evaluation, are being modified and recast. It restores the perpetuality of researchers in the first and second grades and in the case of researchers' work, legal ambiguities under Law No.4310 are removed which, in many cases, could even lead researchers to be dismissed without justification, although they had an employment relationship. From now on, all the staff of the Athens Academy of Research are included in the law on research into their work and this is an important step and a consistent request from researchers and the research community. Among other things, democratic steps are being taken to control arbitrariness and accountability of management bodies. Opposition seems to have a special allergy to the democratic function of the centres. After all, it is not the first time that it has been expressed in such a way. In the democratic reform that took place in school units with the selection of directors, Opposition had deplored that effort, but this reform was an essential step towards the democratisation of the school which was welcomed by the whole educational community. This bill attempts to provide a definitive solution to the administrative distortions created by the previous legislative framework, but also to restore the importance of the researcher's position. Research staff shall be involved in the selection of the director of the research centre and for the first time the opinion of other staff shall be taken into account. Because here we are listening to a number of customer logics that the director should have with researchers, ladies and gentlemen, researchers are scientists to whom we trust our country's future. Can these people not have a worthy reason and merit for who should be the director of the research centre? Let's get a little serious at last. An exceptionally important provision is also the one in which the public assessment of the directors of research centres and institutes in the middle and end of their term of office is instituted, with the participation of all employees. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the huge spectrophe that is being done these days for the minimum number of infants per department, but also for the entire school. It is a terrible capacity for the Officerial Response, but also for the systemic media of interactivity to distort the truth and literally do the white one. While the institution of full-day schools is expanding to 90% of the schools in the territory, as the Minister said yesterday, they are trying to convince public opinion that we are abolishing the full-day school. The same goes for kindergartens. For the first time, pre-schools are included in the number of infants to be counted for the establishment of a pre-school section. The Minister clearly said so and it is the law of the '85. That is why the minimum number of 14 infants and preschools is increasing. They are not satisfied with the commitment that no kindergarten will be closed, they are not satisfied when the Minister commits that no island area will be left without a kindergarten, no matter what kindergartens are. They insist dogmatically on their lies. But lies have short feet. In September the Greek people will laugh at what they have said. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has shown since the first day of the "first time left" its intention to upgrade the research with the creation of a ministerial portfolio in the Ministry of Education and the choice of Mr Fotakis, an important researcher in this position. Today's bill is the beginning of a new era for research in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u343	Mr Loverdos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a democratic issue in the country, isn't there? We have the call for a 40-hour strike by the journalists. Good or bad, it's their business. We are entitled to say 'How do you protest about the ad, hiding the political word of those responsible'? But that is a political attitude. I would not mention this in the debate on the draft law on education, but I am told that all channels suddenly show the Prime Minister to speak to his parliamentary group. How is this done in the midst of a strike that had a universal extent? How is that possible? How did everyone do it? One at first or two, then the others? Because we have information too. How can this information be broken so when the Prime Minister speaks to his parliamentary group, namely an internal procedure? Now we don't have a strike? Without the channels, radios, media, sites can criticise what the Prime Minister said and without the parties that were devoured, among other things, to be able to issue a press release that can be published. Erdogan blurred! Are we a democracy in this place? What's going on? What do you have to do to be able to hide - so you think and so imagine - the turns of eighty degrees of your policy? Does democracy have to pay it in this area too? How much will you cost, beyond economics, to this place? We underline that, we denounce it, it is unacceptable! It's never happened before. They are works and days of a Left supposedly, Left Chaves - Madour. I said many years ago that the country's malicious people, who have also manifested themselves in the crisis and who are still manifested, are three. It is the constant maliciousness of the two hundred years, that is, the state, is the post-political weakness that appeared through the application of aspects of the Constitution and is the false conscience created by the so-called Left Chaves - Maduro, which has also become government. These prove to be more every day now that the Tsipra government is in things. Ladies and gentlemen, by listening yesterday to George Mavrotas from Potami to speak of the dead of Marfin I was identified. My own contributions to other sad anniversaries of that fact had pointed out what Mavrosh also pointed out. Indiscriminate political people, no concerts, no tears. So when I raised this issue yesterday in the debate, because I had no other speech to make and to speak, they informed me that my fellow Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy when he went to say two words to the Committee on Economic and Social Affairs was almost preoccupied. Also, the Minister on social services said "yes, the dead, but also the hundred and fifty thousand protesters," as if it were the same subject. So, what should you have when you lose your life for people to remember you? A party identity specific? Is human life differentiated according to the most party is your party? It is a disgrace, but also a confirmation that this so-called Left is hurting the place every day and at all levels, dominating consciousness. And once I speak of the works and days of this government, I want to link my speech - which I did not intend to do so if it did not happen - to what the Minister for Education said yesterday. And I heard him. I have heard all his speeches: that it is a primary issue - I do not agree with him, with what he has in mind - democracy in the educational process. Democracy is above all. It's our oath, ladies and gentlemen. The oath we give when the people send us to the National Representation. It's our conscience. It's our purpose. But when you're a Minister of Education, your families and children charge you something even though they don't allow you with such triple, supposedly, ideological policies to overcome your obligations, to avoid them and to seem like you're curbing others. In fact, when you are the man on the days of which partyism in education knows great glory. And I would like to tell him if he was here - we told him underneath it, and Mrs Christophilopoulou also told him - that we heard him disprove reports about the Committee of Inquiry. But we did not hear him disprove relevant articles with the body that oversees and supervises the examinations, where the reports had names and surnames, people to whom he referred and owes this. He said outside of the microphone that "and I disproved that". He never disproved it. He owes it. The days will be able to verify both of them and of them, but he himself here, since he is so irritating and speaking as if he is wrong, he has to clarify what he has to say about it. Ladies and gentlemen, because we have heard the Minister speak yesterday about Arseni's entire day, as they have specified themselves with the single programmes, which do not like what we understand and say that it does not abolish them, I have to say that it does not abolish, ladies and gentlemen, an institution that has been extended to about 65% of the school units and cuts it down, it adapts it to the rest of 35%, instead of it being about 35% to go toward the 65% side and we have, of course, to the detriment of the big ones and, if development allows resources to be made available to be transferred to education - equality conditions, ladies and gentlemen, to the top, not equalisation downwards which, as it seems, is the sport and the great desire of the Tsipras Government at all levels, but at all levels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And make it clear what kindergartens will do. He makes it clear and says: "I'm not closing anyone unless I close." He does an example of a child who, though, is in a sharp area or in a mountainous area where the nearest place is two hundred kilometers, this little boy what happens? Why did we, the previous ones, who were so accused, not abolished? And for the rest, they play numbers, eight, seven, six. It is not possible for a Minister to bring legislation into line and not to clarify its content when this regulation raises so sensitive issues and secondly, he and his colleagues have said so much in the years of their own opposition. And to close, Mr President, just a half a minute. He made a reference yesterday in his speech to the recruitment of twenty-thousand teachers, for whom the borrowers have said they have no objection, but that requires the closure of the whole programme. And I really heard him, ladies and gentlemen, with curiosity. I remember him, I remember them all, and especially the SYRIZA education sector at the time that for ten thousand teachers we were in the same situation in the middle of 2014 and we waited for the evaluation to be closed to do SAP, as we said, for these ten thousand, to be completely negative and when we handed over to the new administration, not to Mr. Phile, Mr. Baltas and Mr. Kourakis, and we showed them exactly where this process is, they told us that "we do not care" and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Loverdo, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u346	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...refused the information, which they refuse to do so far, even though we had to give them - we gave it to them, they didn't get it - a study on this subject in detail. What a sadness, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot agree to even things that are for everyone and for all are self-evident. We like this kind of political intervention are still open, but they owe an apology in order to reach agreement on specific policy issues too. They must also look in the mirror when they report like the Prime Minister did a little while ago in relation to the Democratic Partnership. Shame on him! Shame on him, really! Who is a winner and a tail to ask himself and his companions, the ones who fooled and the ones who even today make fun of. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u347	Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou - has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to point out another aspect of how the governmental majority is to be legislated, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a dimension in which I see an absolute absurdity in the way of legislating, which is, on the pretext, considered to be correct in order to be effective and effective. I'm explaining. While the national dialogue on education is under way right now, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Education has a precursor - let me express it - to constantly table regulations and I do not understand why. I have an explanation, but I'm waiting for an answer. The explanation I have is not flattering at all, rather it is extremely worrying for democracy, but I expect the Ministry of Education to be placed on the basis of why he keeps tabling regulations of his own in bills of other ministries and it is not preferable, for example, what is required by common legislative logic and good legislative logic, that is to say, to table a bill uniformly from the Ministry of Education, which brings all matters together in a single legislative text to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, let us just hear what's going on here. Once again there is a great deal of interest - you know, I will write about it - the way in which the profile of government legislation is shaped every time they come to plenary. In other words, it is very interesting how this bill was tabled in the House. Listen. He was filed at night. It was withdrawn the next morning, ladies and gentlemen, and was re-issued on the afternoon of the same day. The official explanation given by the Ministry was that an earlier version of the bill had initially been filed. Is the fact, however, that the new version lacks any photographic provisions concerning, among other things, the Minister of Government, or am I wrong? I want to know exactly what's going on. I would also like to say to you that the explanation I give - and I said that it is not an explanation which flatters the government and is rather alarming - is that there is a totalitarian way of governance. And the authoritarian way of running is explained by the following examples, namely, that it is evidence of the bill and I want to say what the evidence is in this House, in this House, in plenary. Throughout the bill, first of all, there are too many photographic provisions. Furthermore, in addition to the photographic provisions, the General Accounting Office of the State, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is not in a position to cost all the arrangements, as the relevant Ministry, which is responsible, has not taken care to determine expenditure as being due. This is for me, except for the 'handy' or'responsible' I have heard, called a totalitarian way of governance and legislating. One clue is that. Secondly, there is already a law, which has not yet been implemented to see how it works, L.4310/2014, on the arrangements for research. There we are seeing a series, a large number of provisions of the law, who have not been able to walk in practice if this tool is working in the right direction and according to the philosophy of the legislator. Automatically, there is here a procedure for the absolute abolition of a large majority of provisions of a law that has not been able to prove, in fact, whether it works in the right direction or not, as the government says. What does that show? Looks like two pounds. First, that there is micropsy. In other words, our ideals, our obsessions, our re-changing to the previous legislatures are manifested in this way. The second is that there is what I said before - to prove yet again - an absolute governing way, which is also manifested by legislative action when your bills in this House are being voted on. I must also tell you that there is a third proof within this draft law, which outlines the authoritarian way in which your Government is governed. What's that proof? These provisions, ladies and gentlemen of the government, which have the legislative initiative, which attempt to weaken the General Secretariat for Research and Technology, show that there is in all forms of your legislative expression and initiative this authoritarian way of governance, which says "so we decide, so we order, abolish the General Secretariat for Research and Technology". And of course, otherwise, we are talking in our bill on 'transitional provisions on research'. This shows you don't have a national strategy. And she that existed abolished it because, on the one hand, you do not believe it, and on the other hand, you mind, and on the third hand, she insults the way of the totalitarian rule that you want to establish. I also want to tell you that in the same style, namely in the authoritarian way of governance, all the philosophy of the bill moves, and I wonder how academics, how technocrats - let the Minister of Education - who complement the Ministry of Education's political leadership, accept this, namely, that in total a Minister of Education, in this case, has a very interventionist role in today's day with this draft law. If this does not constitute the definition of totalitarian governance and co-legislative, what is an absolute rule? Tell me about it. A fellow SYRIZA Member of Parliament has dared - and let me say the verb 'did' and I say it in those times that we are going through - to speak, allegedly, on the right and left of policy, seeking to defend the draft law that you bring, which, to mention the least, has a few positive provisions. As a whole, however, this is drowned by the hysteria of the authoritarian rule that has wrapped it asphyxiaryly and therefore dies and cannot be voted for. I would therefore like to tell you that I am speaking - and I myself - of social liberalism, ladies and gentlemen, who has built and legitimised the state of social well-being. Where social welfare means that the core of our policy is the individual, i.e. man. The economy, growth, currency, market rules serve man. So, according to this perception, man can fully develop his potential with public aid in areas such as health, education and so on. This is the way to view the New Democracy and me personally that I have taken up this Step, to destabilise the policy of totalitarian governance that you adopt in every bill, hidden behind wards, from theories, excuses, technocratic tricks. And, on the other hand, we also adopted the theory of non-normality, which has existed since 2009 to justify unjustified. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] I would like to say to you - listen - that what you are doing with Article 45 and the abolition of Law 2811/2000, where you are abolishing the criminalisation of schools' occupations, is another way, another tangible sample, another tangible demonstration of totalitarian governance. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority? Because it is quite simply the rule of law, which my own ideological basis, social liberalism, has been legalised, it has built up, it has consistently served to enjoy every citizen's life, his freedom, his property, his health, his education. And anyone who violates the law must have the consequences the law imposes on a democracy. So you, in your belief that we should operate in an absolute way to install our opinions and beliefs, do harm to the law on education. For kindergartens, Mr. Loverdos said something with which I agree. We and a child cared about in the land's last.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u349	Can you put a perfect one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u350	I shall conclude, Mr President. You want a certain number of kids to set up kindergartens. That's not right. Finally, Mr President, I say that it is not right at all - you know - and it does not serve democracy or the Rules of Procedure - that the President of this House was here earlier - that the Minister should bring in late amendments. And you've already brought two.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u351	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u352	With these considerations, I am unable - even if I wanted to defend some positive provisions - to vote in favour of a bill which legalises the authoritarian way in which the majority of the government is governed once again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u353	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u354	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u355	I protest, Mr President, that we have just reached the tenth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u356	I have just taken over, in the middle of the speech. Mr. Doussina has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr President. Listening to Mrs Papacosta, I felt very thoroughly. I just want to remind you that human rights, individual and political and economic rights are largely the conquests of the Left, the trade unions, the great fights against discrimination, the rights of women, the right to vote, etc. The dismissal and the Left - at least our Left - have nothing to do with it. But while I listened to my previous colleague and listened yesterday and today to the committee and to our group, such as Mrs Vaki, who I see in front of Mrs Anagnostopoulou, Mr Sevastakis - who has just left - and my colleagues from the other groups, I felt that we are living in different worlds, that it is possible how we understand the words 'university' and 'know-how' are quite different. They have said, of course, that colleagues from New Democracy and Mr Vorides - if I remember correctly - that yesterday there is a great ideological difference between the way we and the opposition are trying to give meaning, the importance of doing what is important in the meaning of education, education and knowledge. They're absolutely right. There's a huge difference. There is a huge debate that is currently taking place throughout the Western world - and in England, which I know of both the United States and Western Europe - about the university in the 21st century. I have not heard the slightest idea that has come out of this huge, rich debate that has taken place and is now one of the great debates on the future of every people and every country. Indeed, the debate on education, on who can give meaning to the concept of education, university and knowledge is the mother of ideological battles. Because the future of education - as I imagine everyone here agrees - depends on the future of a people. I therefore believe that this bill is a further vote, an indication of what I would say, the morality and the morality of the Left. It is a great effort to make radical reform first and foremost in the field of research and partly in education, which follows basic principles of the Left. I'm not going to go to details. I think we've heard them in detail. The former scheme exclusively supported the so-called ‘usable research’ in terms of private entrepreneurship only. Public research, i.e. financed, entered market logic and was a headline for both companies and individuals, but also for the known transport, revolving doors, from the public to the private sector. I think we are seeing the same problem with a gladiatoria, which I have heard since the day I came here to Greece, with the so-called private universities. Let me tell you that I personally worked at a university that was public, but had a tuition fee. I don't have a huge problem discussing this. Where I have a huge problem is what education means, which we want to provide with either public or private. And that's the huge difference we have. Because one view argues that citizens are grossly economic players exclusively, their relationships are a result of supply and demand. Markets are supposed to improve quality and lower prices. But, as Mr Denkias knows, he is a cadet of law, precisely the whole law of competition has been built because when we let the markets become monopolies and oligopolysts. That is why we have created competition law in European law - most of it - precisely to avoid the oligopolistic or monopolistic situation. When we do not go back to what we call the'social state', which is a marriage of opportunity, a marriage of pistol between the two major distributions of the 20th century, that is, the principle of market and the principle of social justice, which made free education, which made free health, social security, what we see happening in the last fifteen - twenty years, throughout western Europe - I am not saying in Greece, in Greece, in the last five - six years in the field of education - it is this marriage to divorce. In other words, we believe that only the market can decide what the right guidelines for education or health are. The logic of customers, which I know very well in our own universities, that we have to deal with students as clients, what's behind her? That I'm gonna use the clients to pressure the university to make education cheaper, to underestimate all the basic principles of the university. I want to end this in my speech. Look, since the modern university was built in the 19th century until 1960-70, we had some basic values, principles, conditions, understanding what university is. These are now you going to overthrow us not only you but this general logic of abandoning social justice and going to neoliberalism. The authorities are today three: the principle of asylum, the principle that science is a culture and diligence of itself and the principle of research as a deepening of knowledge. The first: The university is based on the absolute freedom to question in public and freely announce what research finds. The thought must function unconditionally. To ask questions about everything even the very value of asking questions. Secondly, the principle of science is diligence and self - cultivating. University education has intrinsically no tooling value. Its success is not solely dependent on economic or other external effects. We do not teach young people to contribute to the economy, but to learn to think, to judge, to deepen the understanding of themselves and the world. Thirdly, research as a deepening of knowledge. University research seeks to develop science and technology and open up new horizons to knowledge, but its main purpose is to cultivate character, deepen the basic concepts and values of cognitive objects, to improve apprenticeship. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute's tolerance. You've left the previous quite a bit of it. It is therefore quite wrong - and I am speaking here as someone who has founded and I am the manager of the largest, possibly, Institute of Humanities in Britain - to only premium research that has a direct material or economic impact or to regard the university as a servant of the economy. They are not universities or should not be development machines, simply economic policy tools. The value of research is not just its contribution to economic development or to teaching to prepare young people for inclusion in forms of work. Economic growth needs because it allows us to achieve what is important in our lives, in each of us. As an animal politician, man breathes words, concepts, values, a rich society that has forgotten tradition, has degraded values in the name of economic surpluses. He does not understand the importance of justice, the endless adventure of ideas, the ransom power of the handsome, the ecstatic passion of the transcendent. If we lose these, if we do not understand that the understanding of Homer, Shakespeare, the Byzantine Iconography or the history of the Revolution are as valuable as the cultivation of robotics or financial engineering, then we will soon lose the wealth that we are left with. These are university values. These are the values of research, and I think that is what serves the public debate and the bill that we are voting on. It will be played up here - I really believe - the battle, the mother of the battles of ideology. But the future of our people is also being played, and that is why it is important that we continue this struggle to build a university that is neither a state-centred nor old-fashioned state-of-the-art state-of-the-art state-of-the-art, nor fanatical neoliberal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we have respected Professors toward us and we are in a difficult position to limit time to them, but there is a definite question of time limitation if we want most Members to speak. So I suggest, if you agree, that time should be reduced by one to two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u359	Let's start from eight minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u360	Okay, no problem. Mr. Charakopoulos has the floor. Mr. Amyra, you will speak after Mr. Harakopoulos. Here you go, Mr. Harakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the way the government legislates with dozens of amendments which are often irrelevant to the bills is a shame and a reproach. Of course, there has also been this unacceptable phenomenon of the amendments in the past, but this government has broken every record, benefiting from the way the National Representation is legislating. Exemption of the amendments has become a rule with this government, as in the case of Mr Philadelphia's late amendments to vocational education and HEIs, amendments which could well be self-evident bills, thirty-three pages one and thirty pages, tabled by the media. Evidently, the popular saying is true, 'the wolf on the bulwark'. Cherry in the cake of the government's carelessness are the legislative improvements to the delayed amendments even at the very last minute. Congratulations, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u362	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u363	I would ask the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, to put a brake on this cataclyst, on the deterioration of parliamentary procedures. Somebody's got to pull the bracelet into this government. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the government is legislating with a late amendment to vocational education is an indication of the importance it attaches to it. In the amendment on vocational education, I see, among other things, that the OAED is abolishing the possibility of setting up professional standards - experimental apprenticeships. The shadow Balta for excellence everywhere. But also the reward of a minor effort. After the abolition of the '10' basis for admission to universities and TEIs, it is now also abolished to promote vocational schools. It's only eight in the specialty courses. Of course, Minister, there are also positive points in the late amendment, but for reasons of principle we cannot vote, rewarding the authoritarian way in which the government legislates. The bill is characterized by abstentions of sins, arrangements and photographic provisions that I have pointed out in committee. The provision of transfer from primary and secondary education to universities and TEI is challenging. I'm not going to temper the nomenclature. I think it is particularly true here that the saying that Caesar's wife should not only be honest, but also appear. Do we have the luxury of transitions from primary and secondary to tertiary, when it is admitted that even now in the school year, there are thousands of loopholes in schools? It also causes forgiveness in the works and days of the Pelogrin period at the University of Athens. Of course, it is not the teachers who have been irregularly elected under the previous law and not Law 4009, but it is not possible to retroactively reward such behaviour. So the so-called moral advantage of the Left was another myth of the Postpopulation that is crushing. Of course, the ideas and obsessions of the Left are also recorded in this bill. The Deputy Minister, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, smeared yesterday because she "remarked", as she said, the institutional councils. And the Minister of Friends was passionately defending the occupations in schools. I would expect respect for the sacred right of access for all children to the good of public education, but also respect for the public property that is often vandalised, when we have occupations and the account is usually called upon to pay the taxpayer. Also, while the Minister for Economic Affairs - do not hide behind your finger - degrades the entire school, at the same time argues about an extra cost of at least EUR 3 million in order to get teachers' secondments abroad, when he has the ability to avoid this additional unbearable burden on the Ministry's finances by posting without a wage, teachers, spouses of Greek residents abroad, relatives or foreigners. Preschool mergings, the abolition of EAGF schools to save resources and at the same time unnecessarily waste. The Ministry of Education's bill is a gonatogram, and even unaccounted for in many respects, as the report by the General Accounting Office of the State points out and let the government cease to invoke the country's absence of regularity. You are 15 months in the government, what prevented you from bringing all these months the regulations on vocational training, or what prevents you from bringing them in next week and from being discussed in the procedure provided for and not at night with a late amendment? The facts of regularity in this case are pretexts in sin. It is clear that you consider the parliamentary procedure to be unnecessary suffering and that does not honour you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for the greatest possible consensus on the issues of education, so that any change in time can take hold. Unfortunately, every minister assimilates to go to history as a reformer, demolishing and not building from where the previous ones left off. That is what is happening today. While there is supposed to be a debate on education, no one took into account the conclusions reached by the previous dialogue under Professor Babiniotis. Dozens of people of the letters, of education, have worked and worked on these findings, instead of being the starting point of any new effort, are unfortunately being discredited by the present government, and it is also the responsibility of the political forces that the government legislates, while it is supposed to hold a dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the Ministry of Education's bill under conditions of veil silence by the media. The media strike as a response to the government's 'cost' of insurance and tax measures and for journalists seems to be serving it. The world does not have the opportunity to inform about Armageddon of the measures to be voted on in Parliament. I would therefore like to call on the journalistic associations to think again about how they react to the government's policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u364	Finish it, please. You are making it possible for colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u365	I shall conclude, Mr President. Obviously it shocks the Greek society that the people who would tossed our memorandum loaded us not with one, but with two and a second Memorandum 'cava'. It is not a solution, however, to the TV screens of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u366	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my prototype yesterday, I presented my own thoughts - and I think it is documented - with figures, with evidence of why and how the SYRIZA - ANEL Government keeps us out of Europe. How can I imagine that today a document from the Bulgarian rail and Hungarian, northerly and wester, would come to my hands, proving that unfortunately the SYRIZA - ANEL government is moving us away from the Balkans even. I do not know if you are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that until yesterday due to the exclusion of the railway line of Idomeni, namely the movement of goods through the Greek runway which has been closed for fifty days, through Bulgaria and from there via Serbia and northern Hungary, five trains of Greek, with a hundred and fifty wagons of goods from Greece to Bulgaria and from there more north. Since yesterday, the Bulgarians, like other neighbouring forces, have put the string on and allowed only two trains and sixty wagons with Greek goods to pass through their territory. Do you understand that? And I ask where that state is? Where is this government? What's he doing? Where are you? Are you ghosts? You're invisible, aren't you? What are you, anyway? This is where they close business. Here the carriers of northern Greece announced that they put half of their workers into semi-working, on average each small and medium-sized haulier, because they have no work, due to the exclusion of the railway line in Idomeni. These workers and these entrepreneurs are clearly exporters. It is exporting that companies using either the Greek skopje or the Greek-Bulgarian railway corridor to promote their goods abroad. So what are you gonna do? Will you let them die? This situation cannot go on any longer. We don't just have the railway blackout, we have cultural blackouts, and I think we understood that quite well with the positions of the ministers, in relation to education and research here. However, I would also like to make a point on the subject of the journalists' strike. I would like to say to my good journalists from the ESA and the WTO that they should think very well about downloading the news switches these days, such as on the weekend when the hacking of insurance and tax is going to pass. An avanta, a hen in this government. So I also call on my journalists to think about the value or value of their decisions and they should be here all over the world to learn about the EUR 5.5 billion measures that come from taxes, burdens - another such situation - but also about the Memorandum 'cava'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u368	How are they gonna get out?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u369	And if you ask me how, Mr Colleague, I also ask: How did your Chief's speech to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group spread from the channels? You don't know? I'll tell you what, the tango wants two, it's a reporter. But, from this point of view, we also had a parliamentary group today. The reporters today asked us to come in, watch - will you tell us? - We told them no. You obviously opened the door to them, but this is a matter for investigation. In relation to the insurance - tax which comes to us this weekend - I would like to tell you that I do not understand the precursor to bring these measures, bring this extremely difficult situation for the Greek pensioner, but above all for the Greek worker who, tomorrow morning, when that hour comes, will not have a pension, without the necessary procedures, the great process, the suffering of control and questions. Here it is, as I said yesterday,'spray, wipe, you're done'. Why this premiere? Since Monday's Eurogroup won't deal with it, it won't make any decisions. The Eurogroup of 24 May is far away. I repeat, do you want to tell Europeans that you have the declared one? Do you count the beans? What if you're all present or not? Inaction, uncertainty, recession, lost jobs, even greater migration of scientific potential and especially of young people abroad. This is what you have built the citizens in a year and a half of this country's governance. The rain amendments are amendments of gratuitous nature. The question of vocational training cannot have been the subject of the committee responsible. You have brought an amendment that is half the size of a bill, thirty-five pages. But is that how you legislate? And do you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, tolerate this? Do you not remember your behaviour in previous parliamentary periods when you were uprooting? Now where's your revolutionaryity? With regard to research and education in general - and I am closing down, Mr President - because yesterday, in many of my remarks, the Minister, Mr Philis, told me all about 'we don't have any money', I would like to say something to him. I will repeat the phrase of Harvard's President, a university, Derek Bok, who said: 'If you think education is an exact case, then try ignorance'. But the problem - I shall say - is, unfortunately, that you are diluted with ignorance and ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, too. Mr Balomannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u371	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of discussion on the issue of the amendment that came under number 362 concerning the lifting of the charging of exiles - in general confession - to the detriment of distinguished teachers and researchers who perform their duties in Crete. It was considered by several, by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, by Mr Karras and other speakers, that this amendment is unconstitutional because it violates the principle of separation of powers and also because this regulation attempts to interfere with justice. Personally, I consider this claim to be refreshing and that it is developing on a micropolitical basis. The conclusion of the auditors, mentioned by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, is merely an administrative act, which has been overturned since then, both at the level of the content of the assessments made by the Orange Accountants' Corps and at the level of the consequences threatened, with a number of similar decisions of all levels of justice - mentioned by the Minister of Introductory Affairs - above, of course, the Tripartite Court of Crimes of Crete, which officially acquitted all those allegedly accused. The regulation proposed does not have and could not have any effect on the trial pending for the hundred and twenty people from the University of Crete, who, incidentally, starts these days in Chania in a specially shaped room. It is only this regulation that is justified and time-confirmed as the correct restoration of a great injustice. It seems to me that the opinion of the Scientific Committee, to which several colleagues have referred, is being interpreted selectively. In other words, the Scientific Committee does not deny the possibility of any retroactive change to a text of a substantive provision, provided that this provision does not constitute - look at the wording, please - immediately annul the administrative act, the legality of which is pending before the courts. Is there anything like that here? In other words, is it affected and pending at any stage either the conclusion of the auditors or the awarding decision? Oh, no. So there is no question of unconstitutionality. Even more on this point, let us say that the case of the Republican authorities and the teachers of the University of Crete, who have been unjustly suffering for many years, is a sign of bureaucratic struggling, caused by an obsessed type of investigation by an appointed auditor and a manifestly distorting interpretation. The dimensions it has taken - I regret to point out - are due to a certain extent to the way justice works today. I'll explain right after that, what I mean. As you know, the University of Crete is divided geographically. For this reason, there are inequalities and different needs in infrastructure and staff. The disbursement of resources to meet needs was due to the division of the university. And that is an answer to the honourable Member who wondered what kind of decisions and benefits these were. They were benefits imposed, precisely because of the divisive character of the university. To know that there was full legality in the decision-making process and that it was necessary. This thing was considered unbelievable to the extent of a felony. The negative contribution of the justice system, which I have spoken about, was that, unfortunately, due to the lack of infrastructure and cooperation with the competent public prosecutors, it was not possible to process and identify essential details that should have led to an acquittal. It is indeed an opportunity to say that the framework within which the public prosecutors operate must be modernised and be able to have permanent partners, cooperate with experts, technical advisers, enriched secretaries, etc. Personally, I am sure that the forthcoming procedure will also relieve this large group of indictees. I believe that, together with the amendments, this adventure will end. Because I see time and time, I will omit what several colleagues have said, the difference between evaluation of the old regulation and the new one here, which, in fact, is understood by a non-expert and research-related, introduces an innovative and obviously more democratic method of evaluation, extending and effectively entrusting the crisis primarily to those who may have knowledge. This is the case with the general nature of the previous regulation, which was simply a report on what you have done over the past five years and what you intend to do in the next five years, namely a report of ideas. I'm ending up with this. It is an amendment for which there will be no whim - I suppose - on either side, because it is cross-party. It is a proposal made by the parliamentarians of Crete to be President of the Parliament and President of the "Eleftherios Venizelos" Foundation, based in Chania. The Greek Parliament is a co-founding member of the Foundation, which is indeed developing a very important activity both internally and abroad. By definition, ladies and gentlemen, the political size of the Foundation "Eleftherios Venizelos" is great and constantly needs to be approached and re-orientated in the light of new historical research and data. Because the position of the President of the Parliament is by definition super-party, we have the impression that as President he will contribute in addition to increasing the authority of the institution at the symbolic level, probably so that any controversial issues can be dealt with in the necessary critical spirit and with the greatest possible historical accuracy and globality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Kavadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all I wish you all a great deal, in health. Minister, I would like to convey my strong concern from the alalum that was created by the deposit of the bill one day, the withdrawal the next day and its reintroduction on the afternoon of the same day. This situation shows, not only the sloppiness with which the government legislates, but also the complete absence of a plan and elementary planning. Minister, the problems of education are not solved by bills that are 'cut off', like what you have brought in, nor can there be any real reformal effect on education, by passing numerous amendments to unrelated bills, nor is there any productive policy if you legislate almost only with legislative content. Unfortunately, we all see it every day: When a government legislates without strategic planning, without having a basic principle of its citizens, the next step is a series of amendments and bureaucracy and we finally get to the point where a law turns against citizens. Allow me at this point to referral back to committee. In Lefkada and especially in South Lefkada, which was ruthlessly struck by the earthquake, the Lefkadaites face an enemy state. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the pluralism and borders, five months after the earthquake in Lefkada, the state did not stand the same way as a brother on the part of the citizens. The Lefkadaites spent winter, Christmas celebrations, Easter holidays, and probably the way summer goes on the streets. Minister, ten - not ten thousand! - containers that are needed to house families that have broken their homes, are still waiting for them, and they have been five and a half months since the earthquake. The first emergency aid was given three months after the earthquake. And I wonder why it's called the first emergency aid after all these months? Tax exemptions, such as the earthquakes in Kefalonia, have not so far been taken by the Lefkadians. Projects to restore damage to basic infrastructure have not yet started. Also, the road restoration works leading to the world-famous beaches of the island have not even begun and the tourist season has already begun. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedures must be simplified so that the state is directly next to the citizen, especially those affected by natural disasters. We have to deal with serious national issues and the work not only of mine but also of many colleagues is to try to operate the state. Personally, I exert pressure every day to overcome all these problems and to speed up procedures for the Lefkadians to get what they deserve as seismics. I note that it took four months to sign four ministers to declare Lefkada an earthquake. Five months have passed, and there are still pending decisions, because at least three of them are needed. Unfortunately, the sloppyness of the legislator is afflicting people living, working and trying in one - supposedly - developed state and a welfare and solidarity state. I would like to return, Mr President, to today's debate. Minister, allow me to make specific articles in the bill which clearly show that we are discussing a bad bill today. In Article 31, while IKY grants are currently regulated only by ministerial decision, three ministers, education, finance and development will now be required, at the risk of long delays or cancellation of programmes. Instead of simplifying procedures, we add extra bureaucracy. In Article 33, we cannot agree with the photographic provision and transfer of teachers from primary and secondary education to the HEIs, when we have even today thousands of gaps in school. With regard to Article 35 on the minimum number of infants needed to set up a nursery, a provision that has upset parents and teachers, you must explain on the basis of what study has been done, this determination and the impact it will have on school units throughout the country, especially on islands, border areas and the province in general. It is contradictory on the one hand that we are talking about extending the compulsory pre-school treatment to preschools and, on the other, that there is a fear of the closure of kindergartens, as the ILO denounces. Minister, in Article 37, where issues of introduction to higher education are regulated in earthquake-stricken areas, as they emerged from the earthquake of 17 November in Lefkada, you did well to put all the regions in place, since the relevant CYR provides for them, but it would be fair for the students of Lefkada who will give this year's Pan-Hellenics to apply the quota method separately. These students have faced adverse conditions, lost almost a month of teaching because of the inappropriate school buildings and you realize that there have been major problems in their preparation. I have already submitted a request to the Minister for Education, which also refers to the official statistics of the Natural Disaster Restoration Department, which demonstrates that 80% of the damage left behind by the earthquake concerns the Lefkas Prefecture. In particular, we are talking about the eighty-seventy-seven buildings in all earthquake regions, the seven hundred are in the Lefkada Prefecture. Mr President, I would like to put the request in the Minutes and the relevant information. [[Here, a Member of Parliament, Mr Athanasios Kavadias presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We still disagree with Article 45 and the decrimination of occupations. We do not agree with minority groups, which normally decide and order, deprive the majority of students of the opportunity to attend their courses and do not respect public property, by destroying school buildings with the help of extra-school data. With this bill, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you show that you have no idea where you are going and where you want to go. Legislate everything in panic, trying every time to cover up problems on time without giving solutions. With education, however, we cannot play. Education issues require national consensus and consensus. That is why the New Democracy has also entered into the so-called national dialogue on education, so that we are genuinely willing to contribute productively to a better education system for our children. Finally, we must stop making our children experimental by the Minister of Education and constantly changing the system at almost all levels of education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u374	To conclude, Mr President, your'seismic' speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u375	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why the New Democracy can no longer consent to a pre-forma dialogue which is taking place on display. Thank you. Mr President, it is important to hear from the Step of the House what is happening in Lefkada as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u376	Thank you. Mr. Bourra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr President. Although, on the New Democracy side, there has been a detailed position both from our rapporteur, Mrs Antoniou, and from fellow Members of the New Democracy, I will also be allowed some thoughts on this draft law: 'Regions on research and other provisions'. While, Minister, the national dialogue on education is under way, the Ministry of Education, all this time before it, has been tabling various unrelated draft regulations. The New Democracy has long pointed out that you had to bring in a bill in order to legislate for yourself all the issues that concern you, although continuing, is assumed to be the pretext for dialogue on education. This time the Ministry of Education submits this bill, although dialogue continues. In fact, in the explanatory statement, Mr Minister, these are transitional provisions which are necessary. However, it is clear that they are not the Ministry's overall reform and reformal view, but they are a first step towards the creation of a new framework law on research and technological development. This is something prototype, phase-setting on such an important issue. As a whole, there are many photographic provisions. My colleagues told you in detail. Furthermore, once again, the General Accounting Office of the State is unable to cost all the arrangements, as the Ministry did not determine the costs as being due. The main part of the draft law, on research regulations, amends provisions of the n. Date of birth: 4310/2014. In fact, this law has not yet been implemented. So how did you come to the conclusion that some things should be changed when they were not implemented and not all the tools, which should exist - presidential decrees and ministerial decisions - which would make the law operational in order to see its effectiveness? The proposed provisions are provisions which are designed to weaken the General Secretariat of Research and Technology, while at the same time there is a discrepancy between the cooperation of public research with private bodies. On the other hand, in these things you get anaphylaxis when you hear about a private sector. The specific view of the Government is already expressed in the first article of the draft law, amending the corresponding article of the Law. 4310 which defines the subject matter and purpose of the law. The new provision states the obligation of the State to ensure that science and research are developed and promoted, while references to technological development and innovation and to the European Union's unified Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are deleted. The same is true of Article 17 on the resources of research centres and institutes. There is no longer any provision for the development of business. Today, Minister, the crisis in our country takes uncontrolled proportions with the foreign policy pursued by the government, research and innovation is the only lever of development, but through policies that are both research-friendly and entrepreneurship-friendly. At this point - and I see my time being shortened and the President will interrupt me - I would like to make a few comments, Minister - and, if you will, take care of them - in some articles of the draft law. In Article 16, paragraph 16, it states: ‘It is possible to designate a researcher as the principal overseeing a PhD candidate's thesis in AEI following a decision by the general meeting of the relevant department of AEI’. I would like to say here that 'EIO, universities plus TEI'. The question is why a TEI professor cannot be a master of supervision, since the TEI regular teacher is qualified in a similar manner to those of the university professor and, in addition, is charged with five years of professional experience. According to the n. 4009/2011, common provisions define the qualifications of teachers in both the university and the IT sector. Also, researchers are distinguished in a, b and c, depending on their qualifications, which are downward. So the third and second grades, lower hierarchicals and essentially vis-à-vis the researcher, can they give the subject of doctoral thesis and can not the regular professor TEI? For the reasons I have just said, Minister, please fill in this paragraph 16 as follows: "It is possible to define a researcher and a TEI as the principal overseeer of a doctoral thesis." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. A second point, Minister, is that Article 28(9) '5'. (b) amend paragraph 5 of Article 39 as follows: 'States of TEIs may cooperate with university departments or faculties in the preparation of doctoral thesis'. [[At this point, the end of the speaker's speaking time bell is being ringed.]] Let me finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u378	Yes, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u379	Yeah, but the bell's ringing and I'm not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u380	Keep going, please. Take extra time, because you make specific reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u381	O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4009 in Article 39 it states that more than one supervisor of the same or other HEI may be designated. Therefore, it should be possible, according to the amendment I am proposing, for portions of the TEIs to be able to co-organise with departments or schools of the universities of the national or foreign territory to draw up doctoral thesis, and for the award of the doctoral title, as is the case above - because there is also the form, your partners know it - to have the title, the university or the department of the university, but also the TEI. I conclude by saying that in paragraph 6 of Article 28 it states that teachers and lecturers may, at their request, move and carry out a full teaching, research, administrative, laboratory or clinical work in the field of the department or in part of the same school. I think that this provision should also be supplemented and applied to teachers in TEIs. So why can't teachers move to another department similar or vice versa? I believe, Minister, that you must look at what I have proposed with sympathy, so that there can also be a fairer treatment of the two bodies of higher education, of the HEIs, that is, the universities and of the TEIs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u383	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u384	Mr President, I would like to say that the amendment of a general number 405 and a special number 48 is withdrawn from the Members who have tabled it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Fotakis informed us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Karastasis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill with special characteristics. It concerns the area of education and the area of research and innovation, which is the appearance and soul of our society. With regard to the section of the draft law on education, I would just like to say briefly that from the day of its publication until today hypocrisy and crocodile tears have caused criticism. Those who have been dealing with the commercialisation of education for decades, and the customerisation of their students and families, assisted by their friendly media, have tried with care for their until yesterday's victims to give the image of the upcoming destruction of the educational system. I believe that, both in the debates before and today, they have received the answers they need. I would just like to point out to the relevant ministers in view of the forthcoming legislation, which will come to a debate and vote, what they have rightly noted in the debate in the committee and a colleague and my fellow Member, Mr Michalis, have heard from the stakeholders, but we have not heard the opinion of those who use the education system, that is, their students and parents. This should find a way to rectify it. With regard to the part of the draft law on research, technology and innovation, I would like to say that the proposed measures mark the turn to the research already being undertaken by the Government, to turn to the real needs of society, in order to design and implement a coherent, national strategic plan for research, technological development and innovation, which should reflect national priorities, in view of the public interest and with a view to getting out of the crisis. A vehicle in this effort is the existence of healthy innovative entrepreneurship and effective mechanisms to support it. Today the global landscape, in addition to the globalization of the economy, is characterised by the globalization of knowledge. Open data, open innovation and knowledge dominate. This is a fact that creates opportunities, but also potential side effects. It is a given that the economic and social crisis that prevails creates problems and compositions. With the draft legislation under discussion and its relatives that will follow, an effort is being made to eliminate calls from the past, to improve the institutional and legislative framework governing research, to establish new effective financial instruments and mechanisms to support innovative entrepreneurship, and in particular to support the most important chapter of the country, young scientists and young researchers. All the relevant bills should tend to create a definitive framework for the development of the Single Research and Education Area and at the same time include the elements necessary for the productive reconstruction of our country through research. By speeding up the individual issues raised in the bill, I would point out the following. Excellency is clearly defined, because the pursuit of scientific quality and excellence, the route, the constant search, in other words, the road to Ithaca, is an essential condition for success and there is no discount here. In my opinion, it is important that, through this bill, young researchers should be given the opportunity to submit their own research proposals, and if they are positive, they should be able to implement them at the IOIs and the research centres in the country, as those scientific scientists themselves are responsible for the projects concerned. This possibility stimulates the creativity of young scientists, opens serious prospects for their careers and is an important incentive to work research in our country. With regard to the ESRB, I have listened with satisfaction to the committee responsible, Minister Fotakis, to confirm that we have managed to lift the restrictions that existed since the country's unbundling by the end of 2014, with regard to hereditaries relating to research and innovation and that in the very near future there will be a re-launch of the programme, which will clearly revive the research community and innovative businesses. Although in Fthiotida, which I represent, the expectation from the arrangements for establishing one of the twelve new research centres provided for by the Treaty had been cultivated. 4310/2014, I can only agree that these centres must be created after sustainability and feasibility studies to contribute to the local economy by highlighting the region's comparative advantages. Finally, I would like to agree with Minister Fotakis that there is research and innovation that comes from the needs of the market and supports the economy of today, but there is something else that is often neglected, because it has no direct and tangible results. But it has a very great added value, and that is the research that comes from scientific curiosity. This support is precisely the mark of the policy that this government wants to implement. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law to be passed I consider, bearing in mind that it will be supplemented by next bills which will be tabled shortly, that it is moving in the right direction by creating a modern framework for education and research in our country and that is why I shall vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u388	We also thank you for keeping time. Mr. Psychogios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u389	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis we have experienced in recent years could in no way affect the functioning of the country's higher education institutions in the fields of available financial resources, educational staff, facilities and research. Therefore, research is a neural and very important area for the development of science and is a prerequisite for further improvement of the level of study of university institutions. It has been quite degraded in recent years and cannot go hand in hand with the level of research programmes of other European and international universities. The research sector requires continuous and stable programming, as well as sufficient funding to work efficiently. In this direction, it is important that the Minister responsible, Mr Fotakis, told us about the hiring of a hundred researchers - fifty per year - in order to strengthen this thing in practice too. Due to the lack of the developed research programmes, there is a risk that the level of study of the Greek universities will deteriorate more generally, despite the commendable and remarkable efforts of the teaching staff to offer their students the best possible level of knowledge. For this reason, this draft law contains a number of necessary improvements, aimed at stimulating initiatives to upgrade higher education. In the first chapter on research, a set of transitional provisions is included mainly for the purpose, firstly, of amending the provisions of the first paragraph. 4310/2014, the majority of which have not been implemented until now, and secondly, the formation of a suitable ground until the creation of a comprehensive final legislative framework for research, as announced to the committee and the relevant Deputy Minister. Stranding out some parts of the research bill, we could mention the following: Article 4 expressly sets out as a fundamental obligation of the state to draw up and implement national research, technological development and innovation policy. In addition, the public assessment of research centres and institutes in mid-term, but also at the end of their term of office, with the participation of all the employees, and managers will be able to be only two terms. As regards the regional research and innovation councils, there are the necessary changes in the process of setting up, as well as in the qualifications of their members, in order to be more productive and to avoid the further reproduction of customer networks in the regions. The procedures for accelerating the absorption of funds are also facilitated by co-financed programmes. Here we have to mention something which the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Fotakis, has made clear, namely that the terms of the new NRP '14-20 need to be specified in order to make it more productive and efficient for research. I would also say that, in addition to the conditions governing the implementation of the new NSRP and this funding, we should seek - where there are - further public resources to strengthen and blood the research system and higher education. Very important regulation is also the possibility for postdoctoral and young researchers to be programme managers. It also promotes the conclusion of fixed-term work contracts in research programmes in order to limit the so-called 'blocks'. I would also like to mention here to the workers of researchers under private law for an indefinite period in private law, whom we must pay great attention and protect in the process. In addition to the first chapter on research, which is the main body of the bill, there are two other chapters which regulate individual issues of primary, secondary and higher education. For example, I am referring to matters relating to the administrative functioning of universities - something that is not in any way negligible for their day-to-day operation - in order to make it more flexible, with a view to rational and efficient use of their resources. Secondly, there are issues relating to scientific, teaching, laboratory and technical staff of specific categories of universities and TEI, which have been requested by many students and professors of these departments, while the other articles introduce arrangements for the approval of university degrees by the IOTAP and the specific conditions required. It is certainly at this point that we must say that we need to rationalise and step up the process of recognition of diplomas by the IATP as a whole, while facilitating the procedures for awarding grants by the State Scholarship Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, all these better regulations in this bill should not be taken into account either as a given and self-evident or, of course, as a section. But it is an important step and we should all consider what brought us to the need to vote on all these measures. The cause is no other than the policy that has been drawn up for so many years by the diploma of New Democracy and PASOK in the field of education. The customer logic and the multiple chronic distortions and diseases that plague and other sectors of Greek society could not spread to the function of academic institutions, but also to primary and secondary - less, of course - education, where there is an issue. In all this, of course, as usual, we have not heard any self-criticism, particularly from New Democracy, but also from PASOK, which have the main responsibility. With regard to the amendments very briefly, I consider it very important that the Education Ministry's amendment on special education and recognition of qualifications, which solves very serious issues, on a daily and urgent basis. I also consider the amendment on the children's home of the Deputy Minister of Social Solidarity to be important, and I would like to dwell on it by my colleague Mr Mitafidis, who, with this amendment, like the others we signed, is looking to facilitate teachers who are retiring, with the protection of teachers, pupils and the operation of schools, and of course respecting the legitimate confidence that these people have as workers and teachers in public administration. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in this bill, as in others, we are very different, ideological and worthy, both with the New Democracy and with the PASOK and other opposition parties. For we, social goods and rights, such as education and health, want to be structured, organized and quality, and that is what we are going to defend, in contrast to the despair and shrinkage that have suffered in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Karakostas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u391	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u392	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u393	Wait a minute. Let me say that there have been legislative improvements and two amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u394	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u395	Do not do so because at least one amendment tabled relates to a merger.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u396	He's a congressman, Mr. Treasury. Tell us which parliamentary committees they are, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u397	Oh, yeah, sorry. It is the general number 410 and special 50 regarding the regulation of subjects of students of the Department of Computer Engineering of the Western Greece TEI. Do not do so because it concerns an amendment which solves a major problem. Don't be like that, Mr. Teddy. From a merger or dismantling of departments or schools made with the "ATHENA" project, no one predicted that students from Antirion, Amaliada - or I do not know where - that were merged with part of Patras - had to attend courses at the same time in two different cities. The amendment is accepted. Amendment No 409 is also accepted and specific No 49 relates to the procedure for the deduction of charges for the consumption of electricity by the higher institutions. I think you don't need any more explanations for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u399	Here you go, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I wouldn't take the floor if you weren't talking about me personally. But you know what? Apparently you've forgotten how long you've been in the government. The problem you're referring to may be completely existing. And if you want, maybe the solution you suggest...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u401	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u402	We don't have a dialogue now, I'm talking. You spoke before and in a dismantling manner. So I'm telling you that the problem you're saying can be completely existing. Did you need a year and a half to understand? And when you brought legislation, couldn't you have it in order? Is it possible to vote on a piece of legislation with fifty amendments, one on the other? After the amendments to come behind the other legislative changes? What's this? What kind of Parliament on the planet is this, you want to tell me? Finally, are you making an observation to me because I'm unreasonable?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u403	I'll do it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u404	So let me get this straight, are you a superintendent there? Is that the role of the Minister? Would you like to get up a little bit? Pleasurely get yourself a little together!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u405	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u406	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u407	Where are you selling that slut? You guys made...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u408	Chabuca?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u409	Please very much and yesterday you spoke the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u410	Chabuca?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u411	Yeah, right, slut!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u412	With this terminology, address wherever you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u413	Yeah, I'm late to understand it, but I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u414	I don't care what you're late to understand. This is about you and your brain!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u415	You who merged and abolished...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u416	...your behavior I can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u417	Mr. Teddy, why now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u418	Chabuca? Where and where can anyone here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u419	...you who merged and abolished Departments...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Dendia, why this tone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u421	Get her back to class, right away!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u422	Have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u423	Whose sluts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u424	Pardon and abolish the departments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u425	Whose sluts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u426	Pardon and remove sections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u427	Whose sluts? Minister for Fifty Amendments and Eighty Legislative Changes Tells us about Whacks? We're not accepting it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u428	You've merged and abolished the divisions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u429	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u430	Wait a minute, Minister. Have a seat. Mr. Teddy, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u431	You've merged and abolished the divisions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u432	Mr President, please bring her back to order immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u433	...without taking into account any elementary things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u434	Bring her back to class!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u435	Good. Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u436	You guys get back to class!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u437	Bring her back to class!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u438	Sit down first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u439	You guys get back to class! Get your ass together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u440	Sit down, please! You won't make any suggestions to the Bureau. Sit down first!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u441	I'll sit down and wait for the reinstatement in order and be deleted from the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u442	All right, sit down first. Madam Minister, use another word instead of 'chabuka'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u443	Mr. President, call the Guardian. Parliament is being denounced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u444	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u445	Hey, what do you want me to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u446	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u447	He made authoritarian behavior. She said before Ms. Papakosta for dismissal, to understand what it means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u448	Please, Mr Karakosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u449	With Amendment No 355/2, we have the setting-up of two new journalists' seats to cover, as you say... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Will you tell the gentleman to stop? Call the Guardian, I tell you. I'm giving you the solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u450	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u451	Will Mr. Dendias teach us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u452	Mr. Dendias can do his self-criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u453	Make her low-phone or go out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u454	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u455	These locations of the two journalists are made with retrospective power. I am talking about ministerial amendments. The cost is 80 thousand euros this year, 63 thousand euros next year and every next year. We are talking about useless, that is, indifferent services, about the fact that there are plenty there. At the same time as there is no euro in hospitals to meet daily needs, the government tells us that we need to spend another 5 000 per month to find out where the Deputy Minister of Interior is going and what he does. This is what is happening at the moment when the Minister of Government himself, Mr Papapas, recently admitted that there is an excess of staff in ERT, which has no object. So, to the public-subscribed public-subscribeed journalists, you come and add two more. That is to say, you are continuing the same unacceptable policy of the former. You are cutting pensions, cutting off the budgets of hospitals, schools, from every sector in which the government has a say, while at the same time increasing the cost of war and useless expenses, which only serve to keep your electoral clientele warm. It is true that the Golden Dawn is voting against this amendment and, of course, denounces the unacceptable tactics of the government. Amendment No 356/3 provides for the transfer of ownership and any other property rights to be carried over to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Solidarity. As early as 2012, the Ministry of Health, Social Security and Solidarity had planned to transfer the General Welfare Secretariat from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Solidarity, but there was never any provision for the unavailable property. The provision could be described as a provision of a social nature. It may be argued that it is linked to implementation or non-preferential programmes. But that is not the case for two reasons. On the one hand, the way in which property is managed is not specified and, at least, does not result in this provision, in ensuring transparency in the exploitation of property. On the other hand, increased responsibilities are attached to the Secretary-General for Welfare, who, in accordance with paragraph 3 of this article, will have the dominant role in any management act of the property. There is no restriction in the adoption of the decisions of the Secretary-General in order to ensure that the above acts are of benefit to the public interest. No reference shall be made to the process of censoring and exploiting property, as well as to the formalities to be followed in order to ensure that they are properly managed. The policy you are following is no different from the tactics of the previous governments, a tactical full and unconditional delivery of public property to private interests. As long as we are talking about selling fourteen regional airports, with a colonial type agreement, which you yourself strongly denounced while you were in opposition. We therefore also vote against this amendment because the unconditional surrender of the management of real estate in persons who have been placed by the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict can only be described as a sale. A similar nature is Amendment 357/4, which provides for the addition of two members to the board of directors of the "Children Housing Foundation". Under Article 4 of 104/1973, as currently in force, the board of directors of that institution is composed of three members. The new provision increases the composition of the Board of Directors from three members to five members. In order to ensure a quorum during the convergence of the Governing Council, Article 5(1) shall be replaced and the four members present shall be defined as a minimum of the members present instead of the three currently in force. The explanatory statement refers to the history of mismanagement of the institution's finances and the resulting liquidity problems and inability to address operational needs. The aim of the association since its establishment was to ensure minimum social welfare and to protect the childhood and the rights of workers mothers and their children. The untransparent functioning of the institution has so far led to the failure to fulfil its purpose and, if it is considered excessive to say that the operation of the association as a whole has been circumvented, it is at least sufficient to point out that it has been questioned whether and whether it can now survive economically. Since this institution is subject to the control and supervision of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Solidarity, i.e. under State control, it should be noted that at no point in the explanatory statement reference is made to the findings of inspectors, economic findings, audit reports and any disciplinary and criminal prosecutions for the mismanagement of the financial interests of the institution. Golden Dawn has pointed it out many times: Legislation with unprecedented care and tabling amendments "photographics" in order to ensure the appointment of your voters. On this point we would like to ask the Minister the following question: What are the remuneration of the members of the board of directors? It would be right, of course, if we were to talk about an institution of mutual benefit and you were to define yourself as a government that ensures and promotes social welfare, even if the positions of the members of the board of directors were unpaid, to abolish any remuneration. The charity work is not done in return. We are voting against the amendment. Amendment No 358/5 is the only one with a purely positive character. We'll support her. Amendment No 359/6 is the epitome of poor legislation. Completely irrelevant arrangements for unrelated issues, all thrown into an amendment. On the one hand, one can say that it also contains positive arrangements, such as that for the overregistration of university schools or classes in high school graduates, which were distinguished from school Olympians. On the other hand, most are concerned with the regulation of formal issues which are wrongly raised in the form of an amendment and have not been incorporated into a draft law by the Ministry of Education, so that appropriate treatment can be obtained. We will vote against this amendment. There is no more important reason than that it is also a monument of poor legacy. Paragraph 5 stipulates that the exceptional recruitment of alternate teachers for the teaching of Catholic doctrine and Hebrew religion may be permitted. At the same time as the Minister of Education has been brought by hatred, perhaps by intolerance, by ideology, to fly out of the Greek schools the Orthodox faith by downgrading the lesson of religious, changing its content and nature, we have the same Minister cut off for the smooth conduct of the lessons of other religious doctrines, so the question arises for the companions of the atheist, "roz" Left: Or outside the schools all religions, or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u456	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u457	You cannot want out of schools the teaching of the prevailing religion, the one that recognizes and requires that the Constitution is taught compulsory and, at the same time, you want to support the other secondary doctrines. That's purely unconstitutional. Orthodox faith is the prevailing religion based on the Greek Constitution and unfortunately for you Article 3 falls under the hard core of the Constitution that cannot be revised. Of course, we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u458	Thank you. Mr. Emmanuelides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I refer directly to the internal monologue of the Members of the New Democracy: “And how did that result? This place is ours, ours. How was it done and smeared by the amazing guys who are not registered in any Libro d'Oro, who are not part of political fireplaces, who prefer the smog of the cafe in the House by smuggling the simplest of the tenant's lounges, which look like the abattoirs of the French Revolution, who came and patted us out of nowhere?' We have not come from nowhere, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, unless the will of society is insignificant. You should finally get rid of your self-globalism by believing that if your ideas do not agree with reality, the worse for reality. Make up the idea that SYRIZA's here to stay. Stay to build upon the social ruins that you accumulated in the place with your horizontal measures in the years of your monumental sovereignty. And the reason in particular for education, when the punctual memory of the Minister of Public Administration Kyriakos Mitsotakis on one night was being made available by Law 4172/2013 two and a half thousand permanent teachers with an organic position. It was the same night that twenty-three thousand students were made redundant at the same time in sought fields and specialties of secondary vocational education. It was the same night that eight hundred thirty workshops with million euro equipment were practically unused, as teachers of the ESDP were fired. It was the same night that the exclusion of women from public vocational education in the aesthetic, hairdressing, paramedical professions affected 90% of women. And it was exactly the same night that the then Minister of Education Arvanitopoulos, while he was abolishing these areas of PPA - EPAS, inaugurated - listen - and effectively advertised with his presence a private IEK in Piraeus and even guaranteed the professional restoration of graduates. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] The evaluation of this "Arvanitolia" practice finds the ultimate correspondence in the proclamation of Kyriakos Mitsotakis about students and clients. The neoliberal logic in her majesty! And differently, social cynicism in its absolute expression! We have come, ladies and gentlemen, in order to prevent, with our policy, the educational Armageddon of the New Democracy and the PASOK, which was in danger of breaking down any prospect of democratic and free education. We're here to stay. However, our purpose is not power. Those who know us - and thankfully many know us in our local communities - are well aware of our steps, the steps of the personal route. Our only craft is the clean route and the cleanness of the intentions. These are our weapons, and that's what we're fighting with. We are fighting against a delusional opposition, which in this case focuses on the draft law to be passed. A bill that comes to settle arrhythmias, the injustices of the Memorandum policies on research and which promotes the ground for a more comprehensive reform effort, which will be compatible with the visions and ideology of the Left. The most important contribution of this draft law is the wide-ranging amendment of the n. 4310/14, a law which is inadequate, which is the epitome of the memorandum policies, a law establishing sub-funding for research, adopted the punishing assessment and dismantled the employment status of researchers, to refer only to some of its reactionary and memorandum interventions. In addition, the law has agreed on the entire research community. At the same time, as I have said, the draft law that we are discussing today and the interventions it brings out, lay down the conditions for a law with a long-term perspective for research, innovation and technological development. I am going to be a little more on the issues of education, as it is the field that I have served for decades. It is true that they are a small and limited part of this bill, as most of the interventions have been made either by previous legislation or are part of the national and social dialogue on education that continues. After all, the Government is committed not to legislate on issues discussed in the dialogue. But it cannot legislate to regulate the urgent issues of education. It also makes necessary arrangements for the proper functioning of school units, as well as the improvement of education administration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President, please. More specifically, I am going to refer to Article 33, which introduces a number of improvements, such as paragraph 6, which deals with issues of the operation of experimental and model schools, since it has proved that the placement of substitutes with increased qualifications in these schools creates many delays and that is why the teachers of increased qualifications in these schools are chosen not to be substitutes for permanent staff. I would still like to say a lot about the famous excellence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u460	Time doesn't allow it, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u461	Yes, I'm closing, Mr. President. Besides, opinions on excellence have also been tabled in previous positions. As far as the whole day is concerned, the common denominator wants all schools to be all day long, I think it is an indication of the democratic concept of elementary education that we have. Finally, I am committed to the Minister's commitment that kindergartens will work in the number of colleagues who have been supporting this kindergarten so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u462	Mrs. Fotou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know how long I have to develop the three amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u464	As soon as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled three amendments, such as 357/4. We tabled them on 26/4, and I have tabled them and argued for them in the relevant and relevant committee. On a case-by-case basis, 357/4 is concerned with the national association under the name 'Children'. This club has, at times, caused great problems in its operation and in requesting large sums of money that it has received from our Ministry with the - if you like - from time to time that it is in danger of being closed down. And when I say our ministry, I don't mean the period that I was, but also the previous periods. The Legal Person of Private Law "Children's Housing" under the supervision of the Ministry today is funded by the NSRF, by foods from parents, who take their children there and by welfare. However, while between 2007 and 2012 he received State aid totalling EUR 1,980,000, in 2012 he closed, he suspended the operation of one of the five kindergartens under his management. In 2013, to come back to the story of this case, it was again financed with EUR 100,000 additional to the budget of the Ministry of Labour. In 2012, as I told you, despite all the funding, it suspended the operation of an institution. Our problem, then, is that we want, at the moment, with the proposed regulation to ensure public legality and transparency in the management behaviour of the institution. In this sense, while today there are three members of the original association, two members from the municipality, we are broadening this five-member board with two other members, one with an eminent personality on this matter and another one that will be one of the officials of the Ministry. We insist on this precisely because through this enlargement we believe that checks will be carried out on good management and protection of public money, which the institution receives to cover its operating costs. The second Amendment No 358/5, like Amendment No 356/3, cures a problem arising from the transfer of the General Secretariat of Welfare from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Labour. During this transfer, which, as you know, was done by the 2012 Act and was implemented in 2013, some mistakes were made. So these two mistakes, we're treating today. One amendment concerns the transfer of organic legal positions in Public Law, which were erroneously transferred to the central office of the Ministry and thus reassigned, i.e. they are transported where they really exist. In simple terms they are the officials of the Legal Persons of Public Law of the Ministry, i.e. the Social Protection and Welfare Centres operating throughout the country. A mistake was made and their organic positions were taken to the central ministry, while people always operated at these Social Centres for Social Protection. So we restore this mistake. The second amendment is analogous. During the transport, therefore, housing projects of refugees in 1922 and popular housing remained in the Ministry of Health. These are, therefore, restored by relocating them back to the Ministry of Labour as they were due. These are the three amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u466	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u467	Let me say two words, Mr President, about the bill at the full-day school level. I believe that one of the greatest changes that can be made to society today, in this winter society, is the full day school and the provision of school meals to it. This will completely change the landscape of primary school, first of all, education. Why? Because within this school, which is today done in all the primary schools in the country, while this programme was only a third of the country's schools, at this time, we are giving all children the chance, since they have at the same time... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] If you can, ladies and gentlemen, listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u468	You said you were going to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u469	Can't I talk about the whole day?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u470	Are you trying to be a Minister of Education?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u471	He's an excellent teacher with experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u472	Complete, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u473	Mrs. Antonio, it's all cute. I am pleased about the jokes that are being said, but I would like to say something that I think concerns every Greek family. Every Greek family should have this assurance that her child goes to school in the morning and that there sometime there may have a lunch lunch and not have the meaning of what I cook, I have, I don't have, I have, I have to give him my child to eat, but I have or I don't have time to be with my child and cook or be with my child. This, I think, is extremely important on the one hand, not only for Greece of the crisis, but for school education itself. It's an educational need for children to eat all together. And those of you colleagues who have their children in private schools know very well what I say and how important it is as an educational education to eat all the children together at school. That's the one. The second is the children of all these very afflicted classes, from the memoranda and from the whole of this great crisis, also have the possibility of being able to participate in programmes for their stay at school above and in training programmes, so that no one is forced to take teachers to help their children in school, which is done for those who have to pay, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to be able to participate in a large programme of activities, theatrical actions, sports activities, etc., as is done again in the very good private schools, which very few families can now pay. This diploma of the full day and school meal is the obligation of the Left. We'll do it. Don't have any doubts. With all the difficulties, today, we give a breakfast for free to twelve thousand Attica children, in schools that do not even have the opportunity to get children to give a euro or a half euro to get a cheese pie. They're 12,000 kids. We're giving it to us that we haven't found the money yet, but we're trying in every way to do it. At the same time, we now, for the first time in Greece - Greece, this new crisis - three thousand school meals, designed by the Agricultural University, in the most affected areas of Attica. Next year...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u474	Madam Minister, the process is derailing. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u475	If he's derailed, I'll stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u476	There's an acquired speed towards derailment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u477	It's out of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u478	He's with the full day. Otherwise the school meal is not complete. The school meal is part of the full-day process. Today we have had great difficulty in implementing it in schools that were not full - time. Do you understand? So that's the big difference. And, at the same time, these meals have been taken over by the public with limited responsibility. Do you know what this is? They are these social cooperatives whose 30% of members are individuals who were formerly imprisoned, who were formerly toxic-dependent, are children with mental deprivation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u479	Madam Minister, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u480	So these children work and produce these meals. I believe that what we are doing is incision and that we will also open new jobs through this whole story of school meals. And we'll move on. Don't worry about it. Step by step, we will move on. We're determined on this. It will change the educational landscape in primary education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u481	Thank you. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u482	Ladies and gentlemen, with his speech by Mr Tsipras to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, he was irritated, he lost his temper, attacked, of course, the popular outcry for overtaxation and the measures of 12.5 billion he has signed and will be burdening the Greek people. He talked about European social democracy. He must know that the European socialist family is indeed firmly supporting Greece regardless of governments. But he can't save Mr. Tsipras' impeccable self-government. Her abilities don't go that far. And if we in a responsible political position, a responsible national and social attitude in previous years had a political price and a political cost, today we thank him very much for giving us the opportunity to speak again, to listen. And we thank him for sending us back to the people who understood the story again - who was Mr. Tsipras's spear - and that the only adhesive of today's government is the empire of power and nothing more. Without a plan, with tacticalization being rectified in a strategy, the country is squeezing and the citizens are unnecessarily burdened. The decisions on education, despite the fact that the Minister is trying to put an ideological wrapper, do not meet any educational and educational criteria. It's not part of any training plan. It undermines, for example, the full - day school. Stop classing at 13.15 p.m. It abolishes specialties only to save educational hours. Mr Philie, if you did something more radical, if you did something in a copy of what Mr Madour did, you would reduce - and say - by one and a half hours every day in educational hours, you would save teachers from giving them the day off, not only would you need no substitutes. So do it after you started this policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the citizens are now starting to understand the motto of Mr Tsipras 'we are getting through with the old'. Remove full - time, reduce educational hours, leave out children of unemployed parents seeking work. You are also getting over with kindergartens with a few infants whose parents are trying to stay in their homes. You're getting over with the old one. Remove the NSA for small pensioners, demolish the insurance, reduce the lower pensions dramatically, literally slaughter disabled and vaporize supplementarys. Unfinished with the old and traditional activities in the small villages, cafes, grocery stores and other activities. You are going through the old, production, agricultural production and progressive entrepreneurship with your overtaxation and tax evasion incentives. Untrue with the old one and abolish the OGA. Yes, sir! Mr Tsipras has also failed his recent commitments to farmers. Unfinished with the old and exceptionally legislate for awarding works and supplies without tenders, without publicity, without rules and criteria, without transparency. President of the Authority for Public Contracts denounce your interventions - legislative and other - resigning. You're getting over with the old, you're undermining the independent authorities. The AACC shall operate marginally with a minimum number of consultants. You have thanked the National Broadcasting Council for everything that it has managed to stand up in the years of the crisis. In the field of research, Minister, Mr Fotakis, what exactly does it mean 'are we going through with the old'? From the EKRF in 1983 to the present time, Greece has created and has set up an enviable network of research centres in all sectors. We therefore have an old, European past, but also international recognition, with discrimination and achievements. And you, Minister, Mr. Fotakis, are in many creations of this old age, and it is an honor to have you a teacher in the past at the University of Crete. Ladies and gentlemen, today the country needs a national and social and, at the same time, economic relaunch and the research area can play a leading role in this. However, it needs liberalisation from what is negative to enable it to exploit the recognition and distinction it has achieved so far with the enviable research, scientific potential and all the workers and to become fully competitive in Europe and the world. With the bill we are discussing, it has positive provisions, and indeed with certain provisions and amendments, problems are being solved, but in no case this bill is what research in Greece needs to do today to make the leap forward. Researchers and all employees must feel the assignment of the role they have to play from now on so that this is a step greater and faster than wearout. We need specific innovative initiatives that so far have not been seen. We have tabled a number of proposals and amendments to improve working conditions for workers and researchers. You told us you cannot now, 'Chakalot', 'the troika', 'the quartet', 'Sojble', 'the budget', 'we'll see them later'. For unhealthyness, you say no for now. But for the movements that are many millions against a few thousand, you have accepted it and welcome it. Take the unhealthy one. The councils on private-law legal persons, which have no financial cost, why do you not accept them? It is an institutional intervention without economic costs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a little more time. Good, Minister. But you should know that you are one of those few that Mr. Tsipras chose as an alibi. However, the negative developments brought about by the lack of a plan and objectives of the government and, in particular, the total inability to manage things in a critical period for the country have long overcome the alibis of this type and are personally canceling you. The country from the real and measured perspective in December 2014, today, 16 months later, is dragging without compass. The Democratic Reconciliation in the face of this situation insists on the need for a national and social agreement. We have already called for consultation on the country's roadmap in all the political forces that believe in the European road and want to contribute to this objective. This invitation, however, concerns society itself, the world of production, creation, the people of progress, the spiritual world, the workers, the farmers, the self-employed, the young, the unemployed, the scientists. We therefore call on all citizens to participate in the dialogue on the necessary national and social co-operation to get the country out of the adventure that has taken place with the necessary reconstruction plan for today and tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u483	Thank you. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u484	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u485	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u486	It is a legislative improvement that concerns the permanentity of researchers 1 and 2 grades in correspondence with what is happening at the IOIs. It's this legislative improvement that says researchers I and II are permanent. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u487	I would ask that it be distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u488	On this occasion I would like to make a very quick comment to my old student, Mr Kegeroglu. There's really some misunderstanding. I have never said 'we're going through the old'. What we do with the old one is we throw away the data that's failed, we keep the good stuff and we build them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u489	Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u490	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot start with a comment on the continuation of a bad way of legislating. We saw fifty parliamentary amendments and eight other ministerial amendments tabled yesterday. I see that only yesterday two late ministerial amendments were tabled, one of which contains nine articles and the other two articles, but twenty paragraphs on technological education. I really wonder whether this is respect for Parliament and for the opposition, or whether the Minister thinks that this is respect for at least the Members of the Co-Population and sees them as such. With regard to the bill, ladies and gentlemen, 15 months after the takeover of power from the 'first time left', the words we need and we handle, the concepts that are absolutely necessary for the country's recovery at all levels are completely slandered. Following the concepts of competitiveness, efficiency, evaluation, merits, the path of depreciation now also takes the concept of research. Personally, I will not honour the Government to legitimise a debate and to refer to the question of research, which is supposed to be the subject of this bill, not only because, after three years in which SYRIZA was presided over for power and fifteen months in the government headquarters, SYRIZA is not even able to present a comprehensive proposal for this critical area, but also because, within and outside this House, the three main features of the government's education policy are constantly emerging. Firstly, the unimpeded state coalition that delivers education to party armies. Secondly, the socialist cut of equilibrium that stimulates moderateness at the highest value. Thirdly, nationalism that rewards school propaganda and isolates the country from the rest of the world. And I'm explaining. After the standards and experimental schools, after the digital school, the government decided to send doubtful messages about both the full-day schools and, as evidenced, the pretext for national dialogue. I have heard both the Minister and the Minister before speaking about the full-day school and hopefully we will not see later in the next few months that the full-day school is finally being abolished, because they have been through such messages in the past few days. We expect to see to it that we understand exactly what is going to happen. I also really wonder what Mr Liakos, the chairman of the committee, thinks when at the time he was talking about expanding the educational autonomy of schools and reducing breaks, the Minister was 'empty', not only by increasing the duration of breaks, but also by abolishing the flexible zone, the unique area of breath and autonomy that existed in primary schools. And I say this because the flexible zone was fought rampantly mainly by the SYRIZA trade unionists, because he effectively assessed the work of teachers. And those who took the initiative to implement innovative programs and actions were persecuted by their colleagues and isolated for uncooperative behavior. I'm coming to the bill. Those of us who gave up about a year ago the first moves made by the Minister of Education, Mr Baltas, to clandestineness, rehabism and a lack of programme depth, can now really be concerned. The return of the 1980s, which began 15 months ago as a badly-famous prank, is completed with the interventions at the Higher Education Institutions included in the draft law. And what are the wounds of the Higher Education Institutions in recent decades? Introvert, inaccurate accountability, student power and factions, violence and arbitraryness. And what steps have been taken to deal with these pathogens and at a cost and at a huge cost, I think they are being erased. It is also known that the love that the government feeds on n. 4009 and in particular for the boards of the HEIs. And I think, Minister, the most honest thing you could do is just abolish him if you don't want him. But I don't think the troika leaves you and that's why you do what you can to make it just decorative. In the first version of the bill, there was a provision that was withdrawn and which provided for the approval of the board for decisions of the Senate, and you do not want that minimum competence for approval to exist either. And when something gets out of your way, you run to gather quickly if someone is lying to you internally. However, the most outrageous is the cynicism with which you in the explanatory statement justifies the provisions you are proposing. While you have now told us constantly and stressed that the powers of the institutions, namely, the council, the senator and the dean, are supposedly confused, and that is why the councils must be abolished, now you are saying the opposite, that their powers are absolutely distinct and that they do not conflict. You also do so, in order to entrust the Senate with a subordinate authority of the boards when they do not decide within 30 days. It is therefore sufficient for students or student fathers to dismantle the meetings of the councils for thirty days, as we have said many times in the past, so that the senate can always decide, without any other supervision. And since I referred to them, I would remind you that twenty days ago a group of students closed the exit and exercised physical violence on Mrs Kyriazopoulou, Rector of the University of Patras and the Deputy Rector, Mr Karamanos, and then prevented the members of the chaplain to leave. And that's not the first time. The Deputy Minister of Education, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, was in favour of students who held their fellow professors hostage at the University of Crete and, as he had said, cannot be a disciplinary offence and, ultimately, a criminal offence. And indeed, in the bill we are discussing today, you reward this behaviour by abolishing the provision that is generally a crime. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, with your education policy, a year ago you managed to mobilise the vast majority of the educational world of all levels, of course not by occupations and strikes, but by means of speech events, electronic forums to defend education reform, by collecting signatures and adopting resolutions. Unfortunately, with bills such as today, you deserve the depreciation of your educational policy by the overwhelming majority of society and, of course, the overwhelming majority for defiance has been put through the polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, too. Mr. Gass has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u492	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I'm starting with a challenge. I think it is an opportunity to establish yourself as the Minister of Staff and as the first post to be each island and a primary education unit. There's no island that won't have either primary or kindergarten. Respect for islandity seems to me to be the least we have to do. You will allow me, Mr President, to read you part of a letter from one of the thousands of children who have turned them into scientific migrants. "I write this letter from the rainy Germany, where I was forced to emigrate and work and train, since my homeland slammed the door of the future and not just to me, but to thousands of children my age, children who had even opened their wings, had cut them off. We didn't do anything wrong. We spent time, trust and perseverance on all the paths of education that you set us. We didn't deviate. We have not been lazy, but we have found ourselves a whole generation, without work, without inspiration, without hope, without the right to vision. I want you to listen to us, to offer us opportunities, jobs, open doors for creation and development, so that we can help our country, which now does not help us and has expelled us." Are we now, ladies and gentlemen, ready to respond together with our position and with our positions if we offer opportunities to these children? What if we open creation doors? Or will we continue to send our children home in post-package? I believe that the bill we are debating today is an important step in the institutional reforms that we committed to the Greek people in the September 1915 elections. It is an important step towards the great economic and social change that our country needs with a tool for research, the exploitation of new technology in production, with a tool for innovation. Today the Government is coming to implement the SYRIZA programme speech by establishing the conditions for a framework for research, innovation and technological development with long-term, however, perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim is to create a national strategy that will change and improve the country's development model, which will lead to the reduction of regional disparities, the redistribution of incomes, and also to strengthen social and economic cohesion with key employment growth objectives, particularly in modern specialities, the widespread use of innovation and the extroversion of businesses. The existence and creation of high-tech production capacities for more efficient use of the skilled workforce is the most important problem for our country today. The legislative provisions proposed in the draft legislation we are debating today also make a positive contribution to this. Ladies and gentlemen, with the approach to technological innovation, our country will be able to rejoin serious development. At the same time as disseminating innovation to small and medium-sized enterprises and technology development bodies, we will block the leaking of new scientists from Greece abroad and reverse its escape course in a process of returning intellectual capital, as thousands of young engineers and scientists will engage in the design and creation of innovative technologies in critical sectors of all sectors of the economy, turning knowledge into a development advantage for the country. We are currently putting on the building bases and creating the conditions for the repatriation of our new scientists for the development of the country. We know that research is a recognizable criterion and acts as a magnet in the entry of investments, in the creation of new jobs in the real economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u493	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u494	We know that investment is directed at quality and high quality added products that are carried out by participating in research activities. We know that growth means sustainability and extroversion in terms of competition, i.e. technological terms, with proper funding from European programmes and new investment funds, but also with the proper use of scientific resources. In all this, the draft law we are debating today is a step in the right direction and sets out the strategy necessary to achieve the objectives. These new conditions are being formulated. It reshapes for the better the institutional framework for research at national and regional level and the arrangements for evaluation opens the way along with our design with the new development law for technological and economic development. Because we insist and I insist that Parliament is an institution in which dialogue and understanding must develop, so that we can lead to the most useful political decisions, I would also like to emphasise the need to further broaden the legislative framework for innovation and smart qualifications in regional development. The role of regional research centres in assisting and documenting the national and regional development strategy is crucial. The creation of mechanisms to facilitate regional synergy, HEIs, research on the crucial theme of growth, employment, social cohesion with a tool for intelligent systems is essential. The arrangements to be documented, not in terms of localities and the establishment of structures without project and development, but on the basis of sustainability and utility to local development and economy are a prerequisite. Smart skills are a European priority, and I would suggest that the emphasis should be placed on young businesses, youth entrepreneurship, innovation, smart networks and tourism. It is necessary to link the state and private sector, regional self-government and research potential in the Greek regions, who are thirsty for technological modernisation and want to move with competitive advantages for their products on the world market. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President, I shall conclude. All this can be done with smart networks and smart skills. We can regenerate traditional branches in the regions, for example in local agricultural products, by breathing back to local economies that cannot raise their own weight of accurate energy and high-tech equipment in production. Ladies and gentlemen, research must be changed in a direction that guarantees both academicity and transparency and supports what we are all looking for for the development of our country: a different, modern, economic and technological orientation, which will boost growth and bring prosperity to Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u495	You were clear. Finish it, Mr. Gaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u496	I just want to say one sentence. The achievements of the last century remind us that today’s science is the technology of the future. We support this reality. That is the purpose of the draft law that we are voting on today: that tomorrow's research should prevail in the communication management of today. Thank you very much and apologise for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u497	Mr Baxvanakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u498	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to many of the previous Vice-Presidents, one would have formed the image they share and the media, that the whole day's schools are being abolished, that is to say, the opposite image to what is actually true. Our rapporteur has mentioned this in detail. It seems that all interest focuses on only one third of primary schools, while an effort is made to treat and treat pupils in all schools in the country from four or more positions. In other words, we have an extension of the institution of the full-day school for all regions of the country, for all children, for all schools. The same is true of the famous proportion of infants and adolescents in relation to the number of infants. Tons of ink have been spilled by the interconnected media - at the same wavelengths and the Vice-Population MPs - on the fact that they are supposed to close too many kindergartens. They do not need the repeated positions of the Minister of Education from the most appropriate steps. The element of this fact is that you do not attach any importance to the more substantial provision of Article 35, namely the reduction of the number of infants per nursery, from seven to five in the remote areas of our country, to the difficult areas, to the border areas, where there is a need to move or where there are problems of accessibility. For those who know the Greek territory, these conditions cover most of the Greek countryside. For most of the Greek countryside it is easier to access infants in kindergartens. It is easier to create a class or class of kindergarten. In other words, there is an attempt to simplify the right of access to pre-school education in those areas where geographical conditions often become an obstacle to many thousands of families. These many thousands of families, these many thousands of infants, we are trying to support whatever corner of the country, even though they are finally in Greece, are not just the urban centres. But it's the impression that they're nervous if they shut down kindergartens. From whom does this so - called agony come? By who else? Of those who in the past five years have closed hundreds of schools, of those who the Minister at the time and today's leader have fired them two and a half thousand permanent teachers in one night. He was the same chief who made several thousand school guards available. He was himself who made hundreds of university administrations available. All these people are supposedly struggling. In fact, the rapporteur of the New Democracy during the debate in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, after having interrupted the Minister of Education, had to tell him whether he would close down a kindergarten with a student, and indeed, Mr Gaki, not in an island area. My proposal, Mr Minister, if that is the case, if there is a kindergarten with a student, I think - and I make it publicly available - that we are committing them to a lack of socialisation. If, therefore, the rapporteur wants my opinion, these kindergartens with a student must be closed. I would like to hear her opinion on this, too, if it is easy. However, it is not your concern, ladies and gentlemen, that is not the case, it is not whether they are going to close schools. You've closed hundreds and you know that game well. What you are interested in is that there should not be rationalisation in the distribution of teaching staff, that is to say, the tragedy situation that you have created with the excessive surpluses in certain regions of the country and the tragic deficiencies elsewhere, in order to maintain the immortal client system, the relationship between dependence and service between teachers and administration. This may be your concern, you who have criminalised against public education, against students and teachers, and your only concern, as you quite rightly express it, how much longer will the length of your alienation from power last, which you think is rightly yours and for some strange and supernatural reason has been interrupted, you hope, temporarily. We've been hoping for a long time. The big bet, however, on our own government in the field of pre-school education is to achieve the goal of two-year-old pre-school education for all children and pre-schools in the country. What you indifferent to times of fat cows is our agony, is what we will be dealing with in these difficult times and make sure that we achieve it. On the system of subsistence, a division between young scientists due to successive legislation over the last fifteen years has led to unprecedented anthropophagia, a lasting civil war between young people. For what? For the self-evident right to a job. All this because you have never dared to control the whole system under the control of an independent authority of the AACC in this respect, as required by the Constitution. As a result, there are parallel judicial actions and decisions of the Council of State, which a rule of law must respect. We must commend the attitude of the Minister of Education, who has anointed society, has shown that he can discuss and listen to people's screams and has not made a regulation which, at the moment he was being discussed, would be hasty and unnecessarily beneficial. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. It is, however, necessary, after this cycle has been closed, to debate soberly about a stable system of recruitment and appointments in public education, which respects the decisions of justice and also the right to work and of substitutes, who have been working in difficult conditions for many years, in areas in difficult conditions, and the people who have worked, read, tired and succeeded in the contest of the ASAP, which the state has forced them to consider, but also the young people who have not been given the slightest opportunity to claim a job in the public school after 2009. I shall end with the amendment on technical education. I think that this way of legislating, my friend Minister, is inappropriate in this matter, which is very serious, and the very fact that the amendment regulates in a positive way an intimate way in the field of technical education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u499	Come on, Mr. Colleague, so others can talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u500	Wait a minute, Mr. President. It moves in a positive direction, because it implements the educational community's standing positions in terms of the programme of study, which speaks of a single first class, second class with areas and third grades with specialties, transferring at least one year the choice of professional direction and thus helping pupils to choose a more mature business sector and avoid hasty choices. Finally, the PES children are also entitled to be introduced into the School of Firefighting, but most of all, which, in my opinion, can be decisive for the real upgrading of technical education, is that the right is finally granted to PES children, graduates, to be introduced into universities through special pan-Hellenic examinations. The rate of 1% given at the moment is small, but the important thing is that the road is opening, which may be critical of the real balance of general and technical education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u501	Thank you. Mr. Thebes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u502	Colleagues, following our briefing by the spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation for the true apology of Tsipras in today's SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, it is time to speak seriously about what we are voting on. The ‘Research and other provisions’ draft law includes a set of coherent transitional provisions. It is an extensive amendment to most of the law and with the agreement of the research community. The second element is to formulate the conditions to create a new, long-term bill for research, innovation, after genuine consultation with the academic community. That is what the Minister has said on several occasions. On issues relating to secondary and primary education, what is happening? They simply solve issues, correct administrative arrhythmias and injustices, take measures, in the final analysis, for a better start in the new school year. And while this effort is being made, the New Democracy in particular blames us for legislating in the middle of a national dialogue on education. That's totally hypocritical. We all understand that. Just New Democracy, and part of the Anti-Population, does not want to harm any of the legislation that promotes the effective and complete privatization of research through its underfunding, as was politely denounced by the research community in the Morphic Affairs Committee. It does not want a substantial dialogue on the decoupling of the high school decommissioning centre from the introduction to higher education, on the upgrading of technological vocational education, on the evaluation of curriculum programmes. That is the real dialogue and pretext we are leaving these big issues, invoking political petty. The New Democracy prefers, of course, the redundancies of teachers, the closure of technical skills, the north of private IEKs and colleges, which we have experienced very recently. It prefers to work - and this is an ideal - with 0.5% of schools. That's how many standards are experimental. Not that there should be no changes there or there should be. Don't get us wrong. But just that they deal with all the media and the New Democracy and many more with 0.5%, that is not at all an accident. I think that there is a question of the payroll of public high school, which has succeeded throughout this whole time in enforcing policies. What do we hear in the last few days? The Pan-Hellenic Examinations Committee is changing. The way it is presented is a lie, even at the limits of political provocation. Secondly, full-time primary schools are being abolished. Lie! The opposite happens. Religious lessons are being abolished. Lie! Who are the enthusiasts of this black propaganda? Those who are cut off for the pre-formative so-called national dialogue. Those who convicted the investigation into malnutrition. Forty years with the infinite "reforms" - deregulations have today delivered a miserable, conservative and bureaucratic school. If the public school is still socially acceptable today, this is due to the vitality and creativity of the students, but also to the responsibility, the education competence and the democratic sensitivity of the majority of teachers. Mathematics, finally, without irony! I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, if you have ever been in a high school or high school occupation. Can you imagine he'll be able to intervene with a prosecutor? Should my students be on the inside and I'll call the D.A.? These things are not just out of every educational process, but they are at the limit - I will not use the word - of understanding diligently authoritarian. We're dealing with teenagers. Woe to the teacher who will be in this position and will not be able to manage such situations of crisis. It's a very serious issue, it goes to the shower, and yet some insist that these issues are resolved by police, prosecutor, court. It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Fortunately few schools have reached this situation and there is little shame in the educational world at this level. Ladies and gentlemen, the more we discuss the issues of education, the clearer the political and ideological differences which exist in society, in politics and here of course. The conflict in this area is inevitable. There are specific ideological and political choices in the field of education. This was not born in Greece, all over the world there is. It's a reality. The conflict will be inevitable, because on the one hand there is our position that today we must give it all for a public school of equal opportunities to all students, open to society, and on the other hand there is the view "not so much public school, not so much equal opportunities and what the private university then entails, how private research and saying." It's two different policies. Compliances with curriculum programmes can be made. Compatibilitys to the assessment can be made. But compromises cannot be made in the main policy of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u503	Mr. Stylus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u504	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill which is a little of all, a little research, a little primary and secondary education, short-term provisions on tertiary education and many purely customer regulations. The Government is once again under the circumstances, failing to propose an innovative framework law on research. The truth is here and he's avenged you. As an opposition, you have been very critical of the problems in education. This year's school year, however, ends with inconvenience to the assistant teachers, the educational world, with questions and thousands of gaps in school. The Government of New Democracy had agreed with the Troika, with the institutions - as you want, say it - four and a half thousand permanent appointments of teachers. In the last two years of SYRIZA - ANEL governance has not been permanently appointed. We have, however, abolished the whole school, abolished the school morning zone, shut down kindergartens. Really, Minister, who are you serving? Who is affected by the reduction in the teaching hours of foreign languages and informatics? Who wins from the negligence of conquests? The popular mattresses? The people of the toil? The children of disadvantaged, remote and mountainous areas? Are they able to make up for the gaps you create with their own resources? You dismantle the last fort, public education. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill on research and other provisions. The investigation is defined in Article 16 of the Constitution and Article 179 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law from which research was concerned to date is Law No. 1514/1985, a law which has been subject to many changes and changes during the years. That is why it was necessary to make a change and create a new institutional framework for research and innovation, which happened with L.4310/2014, which was legislated in November 2014 by the Greek Parliament. The law, however, was never implemented, because the SYRIZA - ANEL Government then came in 2015, and did not implement it, it did not go ahead with its provisions. And you're coming now and you're retiring him, a law we haven't tried. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece only spends 0.6% of GDP on research. It is, however, ninth in the absorption of the relevant European funds. The Greek researchers brought in the country EUR 1 billion from the previous programme, from purely European resources, to us in the first place in terms of the absorption of programmes of excellence. What remains problematic, both at European Union level and in our country, is the relationship between research with the private sector. Minister, with this draft law, you transfer powers from research centres and universities to committees of the Ministry. Intervention and enhance bureaucracy. You create new ministries, in a general and vague way. You are limiting and trying to control research, turning it into an end in itself, while at the same time what is required of time and developments is its greatest autonomy, its strengthening, its competitiveness, its incentives, patents, the linking of research programmes with private enterprises and the real economy. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what are the expected results of the draft law we are discussing today? How have other countries been able to use the research to their advantage? How did they achieve recovery and growth? Why don't you follow their example? You are all aware of the example of NOKIA in Finland, which 4% of the country's GDP has only been raised by this company. Why don't you take up the expertise and knowledge given to you yesterday by the officials responsible from Israel who came and visited you at the Ministry, Minister? Why do you not adopt and apply the best practices and methodologies of other countries? It's wrong every time to discover America, based on each other's ideas. We do not deny the good intentions, but you cannot experiment with taxpayers' money. Why do you not require objective, clear, measurable, transparent indicators? Liberate forces. Trust the Greek researchers. Give it a chance for the research community to decide. Dismiss the system from unnecessary procedures. Why, Minister, should the National Council be appointed by you? Why are you not seeking consensus, transparency, transparency, with a crisis, working autonomously and planning the search for the direction to be taken by the research programmes? Minister, you are all aware of this and we are all aware that during the period in which we are going, there is a given and very limited amount. It is therefore necessary to seek as efficient as possible. I have said this to the committee responsible: the EMCDDA, the Operational Development and Innovation Programme, has been approved since 2014. There has been no single notice and no driver has yet been issued to implement the programme. Through the HORIZON programme, the European Union gives 80 billion, a 30% increase compared with the previous programme. From there, money can be found for the Greek research centres, which are aimed at linking research centres to small and medium-sized enterprises. Once again you are shown to be sensitive to words and ineffective in practice and in essence. That's the truth. That's the reality. You have articles, such as Article 21, which defines the promotion of researchers to be in an open process, while promotion at first stage is restricted. It took a row. The same procedures for the development of the LAG members in universities should be followed for researchers. Why is there a distinction here? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u505	At least a little time, because there are many speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u506	It has been given to all speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u507	Yeah, a little time, thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u508	Sure. Article 25 also suspends the setting-up of research centres set up under Law4310 which have not worked and which have emerged, Minister, in consultation with the research community, the academic community and local enterprises. What is the meaning of their suspension until 31 December 2016? If they don't need to, remove them. One last layout. In Article 28 you refer to the possibility of being doctoral in collaboration with universities with TEI. This regulation is confusing and complicated. If you want to give responsibilities, give TEIs, be able to perform independent doctoral programs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this way alone, we can say that we are really upgrading the technological foundations, to move on to what you said, to the national dialogue in applied universities...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u509	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u510	I'm closing, Mr. President. In Article 33 there is a photographic provision, which is very high in the government's hierarchy. Why would a committee be appointed to choose and will the dean decide? Allow the General Assembly to decide on a special purpose meeting of the Chamber. Let the department decide as a whole. Why would a particular committee decide? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there are articles, such as Article 42, which are beneficial provisions, for example, on technical education, which we could vote in favour of.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u511	Finish it, please. We don't have that much comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u512	Of course, I shall end, Mr President. But there are other provisions that concern the Secretariat-General for Lifelong Learning, which is at risk of losing resources. That is why we are voting against. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill concerns a micro-management rather than a breakthrough and an intervention in the field of research. That is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u513	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Stephen, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor. Come on, Mr Stephoe, with respect for time, please, so that as many colleagues as possible can speak. Mr. Dendia, whenever you want to take the floor, tell me why you had asked to speak after 19.00.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u514	What time will the Minister speak if I may?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u515	In a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u516	You will speak after the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u517	I would suggest that I speak after the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u518	Of course, it's a deal. Here you go, Mr. Stephoe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u519	Mr President, I shall amend my speech on the basis of what has been said in this Chamber. About thirteen thousand teachers left the years of the memorandum and a thousand six hundred were hired. I would like to say, however, that during the SYRIZA administration, showing respect for the public school and the public educational worker, this government reiterated those of the previous political leadership: two and a half thousand teachers. I think it's like they've been hired for the first time. I also think that respect for this government in public education and public school is the abolition of Disciplinary Law, of the law which has operated terroristly in school and school halls, and the restoration of the climate of democracy and freedom. As far as the research bill, such as the rapporteur and the relevant ministers, but also many speakers, were placed, as a result of my specialty as primary school education, in order to address matters relating to public school, primary and secondary education. Lies and truths unbelievable. It's a lie to abolish the full-day school. It has been heard here that the full-day school, Mrs Diamantopoulou's "wonder", the "wonder" of the thousands of two hundred long-term schools, whose role, function and supply have never been valued in education. There are thousands of two hundred extended working hours in the country and about two thousand five hundred full - time schools from four to thirteen. The Constitutional cheque imposes a school type for all primary school students. That is exactly what this bill brings, which is also going to be voted on. It is a great injustice and error or it is a lie, I would say, to disperse to society and be believed by too many people that the entire day's school will be abolished. I am stopped by parents on the street or have my colleagues even said "What will happen, will the full-day school be abolished?" No, of course not. The full-day school will work as a school in the morning zone by 13.15 hours, and from there on, by 16.00 hours, the hour will be a full-day school. We talked incredible hours these two days, and many expressed their pain, that there would be a loss of teachers' jobs. No one will, of course, be fired - at least by this government - and that is well known. However, no one said what this whole day’s school needs in infrastructure, in children’s feeding, in teaching rooms that do not exist. No one told us what happened just the last time you were in the government, Mr PASOK and Mr New Democracy, as far as the assistant staff for these schools were concerned. You know, not only now, but in the past few years, it's worked all day in schools with forty and fifty students and a teacher. If one thinks in this Chamber that the good of education is served in this way, it seems to be wrong. Nothing's happened at all. The infrastructure in some of these schools is in a very bad state. Enhanced school hours and the rest of the schools were second-degree schools, lower schools, as if the children who attend to them were children, were children of a lower god. Ladies and gentlemen, they have heard incredible lies about the functioning of kindergartens. However, the functioning of these schools is streamlined, as they will now be able to operate schools not with seven, which was the lowest number, but with five students. The economic and political situation in the country is well known. It is mainly the economic situation of the country which requires rationalization in terms of the functioning and exploitation of the human resources of teachers. So we have kindergartens in the country that will work with five students, without risking the closure of any of them and whole-day schools whose type extends to all schools in the country, maintaining the positive elements of the long-time schools - the well-known EAGF - by offering cognitive objects, such as Visuality, Physical Education, Informatics, with a teacher who works helpfully while helping the student's learning. The operation of the single, two-and-a-half municipal schools remains the same, without any differentiation. It is by the evil of complaint - and I would say that it goes beyond every limit - that the Ministry of Education intends to close hundreds of municipal schools in remote areas from four or more. As far as the operation of the voluntary full-day program is concerned, the single-type school starts at 13.15 hours and ends at 16.00 hours. This was in at least two and a half thousand schools types. However, what I would like to point out, and possibly, Minister, is that as a problem to be solved, there are three things. School morning was abolished. I am telling you, bearing in mind the political responsibility of those who are listening to me - not in this Chamber, but in my colleagues who are outside - that it has rightly been abolished, because it has often been decommissioned. There are, however, areas in the country where traveling students arrive at school at 7.30 o'clock. There must be care to ensure that children receive them safely. In schools where there are no sections of integration, there should be more time available for teachers to be covered with that of strengthening teaching. Finally, we need to see with greater sensitivity the registration of pupils in the whole school, where both parents do not work or work only one parent. Today, in the economic situation that the citizens of this country live and experience, many of our fellow people are forced to work on black jobs, which means they cannot certify where they work. It takes particular attention, because in many cases - and this has been dealt with in the past - parents worked without being able to attest to work at the school's address. These are matters that we will deal with in reality, and I believe that, with the sensitivity we see, we will resolve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u520	Thank you, Mr Gorbachev, and the consistency of time. Mr Efstathos Giannakides, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u521	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days, a debate has been opened in a distorted manner on the minimum number of infants for infants. In this debate, opposition insists on misinforming and terrorising citizens, that they are supposed to be shut down in kindergarten. But the line of disinformation and intimidation has short feet. Sadly, for the Members of Parliament, the reality is quite different. The minimum number of seven infants was institutionalised thirty-one years ago in completely different educational and social conditions, whereas in recent years, mainly because of the inheritability and accumulation of enrichment in urban centres, the number of children in kindergartens in small villages has declined, while on the other hand it has increased especially in urban centres. So that our educational system can respond to the new conditions, it is necessary to amend the minimum number of children per section, from seven to five for difficult border regions, and by adjusting this number for urban centres to fourteen. This is a necessary regulation, which responds to the Greek reality today and which will not only bring about the closure of kindergartens, but will also be able to ensure the registration of four-year-old infants, i.e. pre-schools, in fact by strengthening pre-schools. Ladies and gentlemen, the first time it has become clear that the reorganization and upgrading of education and the resolution of its problems are a priority for the government. In this effort, the political leadership of the Ministry of Education submitted to the vote this bill, aimed at addressing major issues of direction of the research system as well as serious operational problems arising in the fields of research and technology following the resolution of Law No.4310/2014, taking immediate steps to remedy the problems arising in higher education from a series of previous laws, as well as to regulate urgent issues of primary and secondary education. This draft law establishes a national research policy as a basic obligation for the state, by reforming the National Research, Technological Development and Innovation Council at the National Research and Innovation Council. The process of setting up research centres is defined, following an assessment of mandatory feasibility and sustainability studies, and special attention is paid to facilitating procedures and speeding up the absorption of funds in co-financed programmes, while ensuring transparency and sound management of resources. There are also a number of arrangements for controlling and limiting arbitrage and the accountability of the administrative bodies of the research centres. In particular, in order to assess and select the directors of research centres and institutes, account shall be taken of the opinion of the research staff but also, for the first time, of the other staff of the centres. The public assessment of the directors of research centres and institutes in the middle and end of their term of office with the participation of all the employees of the centres, while the scientific boards of institutes are upgraded to ensure that they have the greatest democratic legitimacy and enhanced role in decisions defining the research policy of the institutes. In the difficult circumstances of the economic crisis, the consequences of the monumental policies in the field of education and with the phenomenon of the outflow of Greek scientists abroad, the reorganisation of the research centres is necessary. After all, the fact that seventy and two hundred thousand scientists have left our country and fled abroad, on the one hand, gives us an optimistic signal about the level of public education in our country, despite the problems it faces, and on the other, it is a serious challenge for the Greek Government, to be able to create the terms and conditions for the return of these scientists to the country. The Greek education system has proved many and diverse that it has many possibilities and with substantial support it can offer even more to the country and especially to society. The international successes of Greek students and students such as, for example, the second place in the Olympic Robotics in Doha, Qatar in June 2015 by the 1st Xanthi High School Robotics team, on the one hand, make us feel very proud, on the other hand, highlight the need for substantial support for public education of teachers, students and their families. We consider it particularly important that the Ministry's amendment, according to which the Olympic Robotics is added to the Olympics of Mathematics, Informatics, Physics, Chemistry and Biology. It is a moral justice for the 1st High School team, which, with struggle and perseverance, managed to achieve its objectives, overcoming all the obstacles that have been presented on its way, even when they were of an economic nature. In addition, I could only refer to the recent presidential decree, which lays down the conditions for the introduction of candidates into the Pan-Hellenic Firehouse and in which there is a 2% quota for the positions on the minority. This measure is in a positive direction and it is also very important, in particular, for Thrace, that this was done without the communal drum impacts, which were customized by the previous governments. The implementation of a measure which is self-evident for us is not the subject of micropolitical exploitation, as opposed to some who, by continuing past practices, appear to be claiming credit after all. Unemployment, which exceeds 40% in the prefecture, immigration - even for short-term periods in very hard working conditions - is the extreme poverty, the protection of the weakest, the reconstruction of the economy from the ruins of cooperative factories and the disastrous effects on the primary sector, and not just these are the real and difficult issues to which we must give answers and for which the people will judge us at the end of the four-year period. Issues that concern the vast majority of local society, regardless of origin, colour and religion, and we will be firmly against those who invest politically in segregating local society and in increasing relations between them. To conclude, I will address another issue, which concerns the 8th High School of Xanthi and his visit to the Maximos Megalos in the context of an educational excursion. Unfortunately, the enthusiasm of some in Xanthi remains persuasive, as they do not hesitate to involve even the educational excursion of a school in their micropolitical criticism and propaganda. We are used to a portion of the local press attacking SYRIZA and the government, even distorting reality, by cultivating and reproducing lies and imaginative scenarios. But there are certain limits, which unfortunately have been overrun once again. A school's educational excursion cannot be used to serve micro-political purposes and mischief games, and in no case will we follow this moral catastrophe. But we understand the panic that some possess, as otherwise they were accounted for in the September elections and otherwise they came. And, to respond to their real anxiety, I have to assure them that we are determined to move forward to the end of the struggle that we have started. The peculiarity regime of the past has long passed. The state has laws and rules that apply to everyone, and this government will not provide some of the immunity they have used in recent years. The conflict with the pathogens and mechanisms of the past will continue and be necessary both for the reconstruction of the economy and for the upgrading of the social and political life of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u522	Thank you Mr. Giannakides, MP Xanthi of SYRIZA. Mr George Chogas, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u523	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it necessary and due to an answer to the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Charakopoulos, who, with a special cynicism and scam, has denounced, slaughtered and challenged as 'unexistent' and'mythos' the moral advantage of the Left. But he ignores that since the stone years the left had handles to keep them. They had the barracks, the Macronese, the exiles, the persecutions, the certificates of social opinions, the persecutions on the junta, until the normality of post-multipleism and they gained respect for their opponents in their seriousness, racing and honesty. These condensed the famous moral advantage of the Left, which has competed with us all. It is no coincidence, however, that no one speaks of the moral advantage of the Right, the bill on 'Research Arrangements and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, in a suffocating economic and social context and in the assessment of peaks, the operation of the state is not suspended and the production of the work by the government continues at a fiery rate, which is a sound response to the unfounded and unfounded cries of an unbundling populism of the SYRIZA incompetent government, which is completely false. This draft is composed of three chapters, the first including rules on research in Articles 1 to 25. Thus, imperfections in the functioning of research centres and institutes, institutional gaps, work issues are regulated by the Ministry of Education bill, which leads to another concept of research. Its provisions give incentives, whether or not small, to young researchers. A large number of issues are regulated, from PPE to preschool and primary schools. The research chapter, which is included in the draft law under discussion, contains a set of coherent transitional provisions with a view to the extensive amendment of Law No.4310/2014, most of which, due to its shortcomings, with the assent of the Greek community, has not been effectively implemented until now. Secondly, it includes creating conditions for the adoption of a new, long-term framework law on research, innovation and electronic development, after genuine consultation with the academic and the research community. I am going to focus particularly on the great usefulness of the provision that abolishes the apprenticeships, Article 45. Ladies and gentlemen, I was sincerely surprised by the appalling position of the spokesmen of the New Democracy and especially the legal side. It is true, however, that the arguments against regulation were indeed unconvincing and legally inexpensive, because they call for the criminalisation and punishment of the fifteen-year-olds, who said what they said in the courtrooms and what they believed? They said that "what makes us afraid is not the trial, it is the future of democracy". This was the case in these trials, the future of democracy, ladies and gentlemen. After the agro-industrial courts, there were apprenticeships in order to criminalise the racing activity and the demands of youth. Of course, the question he raises is why the mobilizations were criminalised. The answer: To seize youth action in a judicial way, avoiding it being suppressed in the well-known way, because it would create political costs and impressions inadmissible. So they put the judges in front and ended the matter. It was said in support of the law-makers of the New Democracy that the actions of youth were of particular socio-ethic apathy. This is a particularly tough, unlikely expression for fifteen. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen? Because this phrase is used by lawyers often and against coroners for very serious offences, for heinous criminals of the Passar and Rocham type, for frauds, misappropriations, rapes and so on. Special sociological deception of students with books in hand? It's a sad aversion. Passaris and the other "magnetic" of the Common Criminal Law will be redundant. The provision in question abolishes the oldest of the proprietary name, validated by Law 2411/2000, because it considers the occupation to be an essential condition of the claim for pupils' rights to be inactive, otherwise that claim becomes ineffective, and in that sense any effectiveness of the claim is practically unfounded, which means that any claim is dominated by a serious deficit. She thinks she's hypocritical and has political motives. Fortunately, SYRIZA has another view. Besides, the Criminal Code is adequately equipped to punish any offences in the occupations, such as the armouring of foreign property or even the discreet deterioration, which contained indictments against students. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, hypocrisy is neither appropriate to Parliament nor to the lack of a democratic opinion. Here, Mr President, I am going to end my speech, and I am going to close it, while respecting the time. I hope in the integrated framework law on research, which will soon come for a vote, that this time we see a structured link with the development strategy of the regions, so that, firstly, it will be consistent with local knowledge, not on the basis of a number of market requirements and big businessmen, and, secondly, that it will encourage local and other businesses to invest in research programmes of direct benefit and application at the place of their interests. This research has to be carried out, we have to link it to its potential and help the Greek society, and this is why this bill needs to be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u524	Thank you, Mr. Georgios Choga. SYRIZA Parliament has the floor, Mr. Hara Kafantaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u525	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u526	Mr. Danielle, you'll have the floor shortly after. According to my list here, Mrs Vayonakis is Mrs Kaphantaris, and immediately afterwards you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u527	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, really dominating the political life of our country these days is the major issue of insurance, the great insurance reform that is underway. It is an issue that will begin in plenary tomorrow. But now we are talking about an equally serious issue. The draft law on 'Research and other provisions', which we are discussing, deals with the key topic called education. And why am I saying that? If we look historically, we will see that the great French historian July Michele, when asked what is the first chapter in politics, responded: "Education." The second? 'Education'. Third one? 'Education'. Where there is ignorance and lack of knowledge are fear and prejudice. Remember, of course, our Aristotle, who said: "Those who have carefully studied the way in which people are governed must be convinced that the fate of the nations depends on the education of the young." We have a democratic government which is currently conducting an essential national dialogue on education, a dialogue which is under way. So the draft law that we are debating today is also in the midst of this dialogue. Our country, ladies and gentlemen, today, is trying to stand on its feet after five years of extreme austerity, which was also the consequence of reducing the Gross Domestic Product by 25%, and what that means to the Greek people. First, then, and calling in parallel for our country's negotiation and progress to be assessed in the difficult budgetary conditions that we are experiencing is the country's productive reconstruction. Thus, research and investment in innovation contribute decisively to this direction of productive reconstruction. We have the ESRB programmes in particular for the newly ingenious entrepreneurship, the new scientists, all these are important tools in this direction that I mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a large and significant number of research staff and research staff in our country. Unfortunately, however, in recent years - ten to fourteen, fifteen - a large part of this scientific staff - especially young people - have emigrated abroad, and there of course it is. I bet it is for the government to develop to bring our children back, to make a decisive contribution to the country's productive reconstruction. Research is a public good. It's not a market. However, research, with connection to universities, with knowledge and not alone on the market, as was largely done by Law No.4310/2014, which then argued - look at - the useful research, as they said in the well-known, of course, state-owned way. In research, however, ladies and gentlemen, there is also what we call a researcher and researcher, the researcher, who calls for and needs and must have stable working relations, not working insecurity, to operate with democracy and collectiveness. This draft law, in particular, restores the permanentity of first and second grade researchers. As far as the work of researchers is concerned, legal ambiguities are removed from previous law, Law No.4310. Research staff shall participate in the election of directors of the research centre, measures shall be taken to control arbitrary control and accountability of management bodies, research staff shall participate in the election of the director of a research centre, be upgraded to have greater democratic legitimacy for the scientific boards of an institute, establish regional research and innovation councils, reformed the National Research Council and renamed to the National Research and Innovation Council, ESRB. A process of setting up new research centres and a number of other topics is defined. These provisions in this draft law constitute an urgent and transitional legislative intervention in the fields of research and technology. This intervention is necessary in order to address major questions of direction of the research system, with regard to serious operational problems that have arisen since the resolution of No.4310. We must say that the transitional provisions proposed do not constitute the overall reform view that the Ministry is aiming at, but are a first step, in view of the development of a new framework law on research, technological development, which also reflects the general national strategy of the government, aimed at making better use of the existing scientific capacity and linking research with society, by helping what we call productive reconstruction of the country. I must also stress that, in spite of the difficulties in the last ten, fifteen years, both in the field of finance and research, and in all of this, the Greek research potential, the scientific potential in research centres, institutes, universities has remained standing, produced and produced significant research work. In conclusion, I would like to refer to an amendment, which concerns the Institute of Technical Seismology and Anti-Semitism Construction, an amendment by parties of opposition. We have heard the Minister say that the issue, in order to accept the amendment, concerns the relevant Minister for Transport and Networks, to which ITSAK belongs, since it was merged with the OSCE. I would like to say that this institute, which has been based in Thessaloniki at the moment since 1978, has a significant role to play in the investigation of earthquakes and the essential role in monitoring a network of seismographs across Greece - and we understand that earthquake is a great risk - and which employs specialized scientists, we need to look at it specifically and seriously. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. As far as the safeguarding of its research character is concerned, I appreciate and would like the Minister for Transport and Networks, to whom this Institute belongs, to report to us - because I know his interest, of course - his plans in terms of his functioning, his research character and especially the safeguarding of the research work, the reasonable scientists who work there. If even a legislative improvement can be found, I would say that this research will somehow be guaranteed for both the workers and the centres. Thank you very much, Mr President, for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u528	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari. Mr Spyridon Dannelis, Member of Heraklion, has the floor from Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u529	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first chapter of the draft legislation is generally in the right direction, trying to correct ambiguities, gaps and problematic provisions of 4310/14. But what must be ensured is that the research area is upgraded. The country's research centres with the legal entities of private research centres, such as HEIs, EKT and others, have shown that, in the midst of a crisis and incomplete funding, they can remain competitive in the difficult European area. The main concern must be to stimulate this competitiveness, to cultivate innovation culture and, of course, to upgrade the role of the researcher. This will not result either from the deterioration of the role of institute directors or from the equalisation of the number of researchers' representatives with the other members on the board. It will come from the cultivation of a climate in which researchers enjoy the freedom to carry out the research they want, supported by administrations, but, at the same time, they also share responsibility for finding funding, managing the programmes properly and, of course, maintaining the human resources of their groups, which is what is done in the most successful ones among the research centres in the country. In the second part, however, any intervention you make in education is a deterioration and a return to the past. I shall stand by Article 45, which deals with the abolition of Law 2811/2000, and I shall disagree with friends and good colleagues, Mr Choga and Mr Thibeau. This law stipulates that criminal proceedings are automatically prosecuted and punished by imprisonment of at least six months, whoever in any way is inhibiting, disrupting or interrupting the proper functioning of the schools or remains illegal in schools. In the culture of lawlessness, ladies and gentlemen, it characterises our society as a whole, having, of course, been gigantic in the climate of antimony.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u530	No students. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u531	Listen to me! Listen to me finish my opinion and tell me if you disagree. As a party, unfortunately, you flirted in the previous period by investing affluently in it. As a government, you are now paying for the hard work, with manifestations of violence unacceptable and condemnable, without asterisks and yes, but because all violence against a Member of Parliament is a violence against parliament. The results of this so-called radicalism have been seen from the so-called movements of "I don't pay" to the embraces of all kinds of vandalism and acts of violence in the public area. In this case, the result of the import arrangement is not only about students, who are quite right - and we agree - criminal prosecutions of students are not acceptable to them, obviously. But anyone who's outlawing school spaces? And you know very well that in all these procedures, it's not the students, it's the extra-schools, who come as prostates, supporters, and I don't know what. Shouldn't we exclude them? We could, therefore, amend the law, saying that it does not turn against the students, but turns against everyone else. Can we be acquitted in advance of all kinds of "bugs"? I think not. You agree. In the case now of the conquests of ELKE, of the University of Crete, Mr. Minister, which is a painful history of years, which relates to four lives and a deceased, the former dean of the University of Crete, the rapporteur's amendment of the Members of the Couple is voted in favour and is supported by us. On this occasion, we must say directly and readily that we have to legislate to resolve these cases very far from populism and yellowism of levelling and scandalism, of course, away from reasonable equilibrium and pussy, because the cases that triggered public opinion when they came to light - and I am referring to the management of public money in newly made cases of the ADR or the EMCDDA - of course do not fall within the competences of the Greek Parliament, but directly control over Greek justice. That is right, however, and we support this distinction here, by exempting the ungodly university teachers, who, trying to contribute to the smooth functioning of the University of Crete in very wild conditions, are on the stool of the defendant. It is also very positive, Mr Ministers, to review the operation of the PPEs in order not to create such problems in the future, but also to tackle the unbelievable burden of an incredible bureaucracy that is certainly blocking research work. Minister, it is very important to write in the Minutes that the provisions of Article 24(9) (b) and (c) are interpretative in the law governing these matters and cover all the relevant cases so far. I say this in order not to have adventures, very quickly, a number of your colleagues, professors and researchers, about the PPE of the HEIs, but also private and public research centres. Otherwise, no university student will henceforth deal with the collective management bodies if these adventures are awaited in order to ensure proper operation in the universities. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, knowledge, research, innovation, in an environment of excellence, are essential prerequisites for a country's competitiveness. In the very wild international environment in which we live today, the achievement of these objectives is an absolute priority for our country. Today, unfortunately, you are missing an opportunity to propose your comprehensive vision of such a critical and sensitive area. It is a pity that there is no mention of the term 'innovation'. For excellence, of course, we know the Government's views, since it is still aware of the same way that Mr Baltas understood the term of excellence. It must not escape to any of us, ladies and gentlemen, that in the fields of education and research there is much more than anywhere else a phrase by Mahatma Gandhi, which applies to anything: 'We need to be the change we want to see'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u532	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly, and it's over with Gandhi's rupture. Mrs Nina Kasimatis, Member of SYRIZA, District II Piraeus, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u533	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, first I would like to wish everyone many years. Today we are legislating on research into the future, that is, this place and its people. Before entering the bill, however, in my time, I would like to give some very brief answers to issues raised by colleagues in plenary during the debate and I think they should be answered. The first is the issue of the name "Macedonia", because days are wicked and I personally tolerate no game within this Chamber on national issues, especially when it is so irresponsible at this particular moment. Unfortunately, the issue has also been heard by a party president and I think it is about internal consumption. Ladies and gentlemen of the Central Association, because I hear you say 'we are with the euro, we are with Europe', you should be aware that, if you so keenly want to defend this structure, you must at the same time invoke and maintain for ourselves, for our country, namely, for our national laws, what we have conquered. Correct me if I am wrong, but I have never heard you raise this issue in an international forum, in an international organisation. To make exaggerated statements about the name, when the national line is not the object of defending the international fora, is a little bleak. I would like to present my speech for the Minutes at the Spring plenary of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly a few days ago, where on the refugee issue and the situation in the Western Balkans I corrected my colleagues within the Council of Europe on Macedonia and Macedonia in relation to Macedonia. I think that that is what all colleagues should do, whether when we meet with ambassadors or when we participate internationally or when we speak in meetings, in this House or outside. I am presenting my speech for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Nina Kasimatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] The second issue is whether it is about Marfin and the three victims, who were workers, and about whom you have been so sensitive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u534	Tell this to Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u535	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u536	Mr. Cryazides, a little quiet, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u537	What did you mean about the Centroon Association?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u538	Because you are addressing us. That's why I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u539	No, not at all. Mrs Cassimat is addressed to the House. Keep going, Mrs. Cassimatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u540	A year ago, like yesterday, we were legislating here in this Chamber, the SYRIZA Government, to restore the injustices to the public. We were correcting the redundancies now made by the President of the new Republic, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Then, of course, the New Democracy did not have the same sensitivity to remain in the Chamber and to mention the victims of Marfin. He had to leave. He had found a pretext and left. But I must tell you that in 2010, when these workers were victims of a murderous attack, it was not SYRIZA in power. You had the executive power, later in any case...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u541	Someone else out there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u542	You were. You had the executive power. And you, Mr. Dendia, were Minister of Public Order. As far as I know, responsibilities have never been personalised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u543	You're badly informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u544	No, it's not like that. They were not ultimately responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u545	You don't know what you're saying and I'll talk to you more strongly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u546	I know. They weren't rendered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u547	They've been rendered. He's been prosecuted, and he's a convicted...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u548	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u549	What's okay? Read a little and come and tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u550	We know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u551	Wait a minute. There are two records. One for negligent homicide...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u552	When I'm done, you'll say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u553	There can be no inaccuracies in this regard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u554	You cannot blame the popular movement because it has the right to go out and protest. Besides, cui bono? Who benefited from that murder? It wasn't the popular movement. They were others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u555	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u556	Mr. Tendia, I'll give you the floor, you'll tell me. You have the space and time to tell. Mrs. Kasimatis, please continue, because time is running out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u557	So I'm going to go through the bill. I would like to make a brief reference to the issues of primary education and, firstly, welcome the positive attitude of the Ministry, which has received the concerns of the educational community about how to recruit the alternates and has announced that the recruitment of the alternates will be carried out next year in the same way. With regard to research - which I would like to concentrate on, unfortunately, a little while ago - I would say that, given the social and economic conditions in which we are called upon to legislate, it is very good that the government introduces a bill regulating research and education issues to the vote. And since many of you have lied in the 1980s, to say that since the early 1980s there has been a debate on research as a national resource for development in this area. Then everything went into the autopilot of the one-way neoliberal thinking, starring the parties that have ruled over the last thirty years. The present government has already shown its interest in the investigation. It creates a special research portfolio. It increases the public funds available for research in crisis situations. The Ministry of Education has taken initiatives and five hundred new posts have been approved for the country's LPI and LPI members and a hundred researchers' posts for the research centres. Finally, the university - and the research centres -, which is the value and the core of science, should be able to confirm - as Derida says - an unsubstantiated independence, conquer a type of dominance, without jeopardising his being removed from this sovereign independence, not surrendered, not being able to codify, not to let bleed or buy it at any price. Here, therefore, we need not only the principle of questioning and resistance, but also the strength of this resistance, namely unconditional sovereignty, that is, unconditional access to research to freely ask questions and allow society to go ahead by researching, discovering and making better decisions on its life. And our Government will preserve this in the strongest possible way and start with this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u558	Thank you, Mrs. Cassimatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u559	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u560	Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u561	First of all, Mr President, thank you. I do not think Marfin should be subject to any party controversy. I am quite sure that the entire House condemns events like this in the most solid way. As far as I really am concerned, I should like to confine myself to informing this House as far as it seems that some Members do not know. There are two procedural proceedings in progress in Marfin's case. The first is a case-law of negligence, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the non-compliance with safety conditions in the building in which the death of the four innocents occurred. I always talk about four innocents because they were pregnant. There is a second case for intent homicide against certain individuals personalised by the Greek Police as perpetrators, who, I say, have once again been subjected to criminal proceedings and is pending before justice. In 2010, as is well known, it was not me and the government that was not the New Democracy. The second case, however, which was sent to justice, was actually sent over my days by the Greek Police.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u562	Thank you, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u563	Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u564	Do you have to testify in law-makers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u565	Yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u566	To speak, so that we can share the infinity at some point in this House. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Nikolaos Friends, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u567	There is the tabling of an amendment - adding with number 417/52 - 'Research and other provisions'. As far as I know from the processes that have taken place between the parties yesterday, there is a wider understanding. It concerns the regulation of the specific accounts of research funds for HSY. It is the well-known story that financial hardship, caused by universities in 2010 with the reduction of the state grant, led to the use of money from the specific research funds accounts. This is not only about universities, but also about other bodies. For other bodies the matter was raised before the courts and was resolved in favour of the regulation we have here today, I mean that there are decisions. We are making use of these decisions, but also of the wider political consensus, which I imagine will be expressed during the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u568	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u569	That's right, all right. We're filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u570	Secondly, in Amendment No 393 and in Amendment No 39, I would ask - I said it when I accepted it, but perhaps it was not so clear - where there is the word 'teaching year' to be written'school year'. It's obvious. The school year ends on 31 August and the teaching year ends on 30 June. I repeat instead of 'teaching' it becomes'school year'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u571	That's right, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u572	We agree that this amendment was broadly accepted. It is Amendment No 393/39. It is a congratulating amendment, which we have accepted. It's for the retirement of teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u573	Instead of teaching, it becomes school.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u574	Yeah. I told you what's the difference. Because there are tests in July. It's not easy. School year 31 August, while teaching is 30 June. In relation to the legislative improvements, Mrs Anagnostopoulos said them earlier, but they were not written, than we were told here in the Minutes. It is a legislative improvement which concerns assistant and assistant teachers who have been judged and have not evolved in the next step in the amendment on 'Research and other provisions'. They shall have the right to request the reopening of their post after at least one year after the decision has been taken on their non-progress. That's the change. ‘Since the decision has been taken on their non-progress.’ It's number one. 388/35. I'm filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u575	He has also submitted legal improvements to Mr Fotakis. He's already told them, he's announcing them, but they don't exist in the Minutes. I give it to you for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u576	There is another regulation on'research and other provisions', a legislative improvement announced by Mrs Anagnostopoulou. It's for the Eugenius Therapy and for non-automally powerful sections of the HEIs. You'll see her, it's nothing different. He said it this morning, it just wasn't written in the Minutes. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u577	We now go to the other issues, so that we can have a short and as consensual-type outcome as far as possible in a debate that was opposed. That makes sense. Education, as you know, is of interest to all citizens and everyone thinks they can have a valid opinion on the subject of education. It is one of what Lenin said that 'when the last cook can make politics, then we will have communism'. The question of education is logically of concern to all Greek families, to all citizens. It is an extremely political issue, with pedagogical dimensions. I'm stressing it, it's political. Ideologically different concepts are confronted. And here, in the Chamber, we had a very interesting confrontation of ideological and programming differences with New Democracy, which, as you have seen, finally took the view that students are customers in schools. The effort made by the two representatives of the New Democracy to justify this phrase by Mr Mitsotakis, who was not warmly spoken of by breasts, but by a written programme text at the New Democracy's introductory conference, was not very successful because we said that there is no question of compensation. And zero euros for a citizen to give the state fund for reasons relating to his financial situation, the state is obliged to ensure rights to education, health and social solidarity. The concept of customer, commerce, the market and the consumer is therefore not about a favoured and well-governed state. Are you going to tell me: Capitalism can ensure such procedures? Historically it has been demonstrated that, for reasons of his own interest, a fundamental attempt to reproduce the system must be made to protect the labour force, not impoverish it, so that it can gain the most from well-paid and well-paid workers. This is a close Marxist approach. But I do adopt it to respond to a similar cliché. More generally, however, you should know that education works as a mechanism for expanded reproduction of social relations. And that's the interesting part of class struggle at all levels in the field of the socio-political system in which we live. It is not a closed subject, it is a dynamic, and that is why there are all the political forces, to give the battle here or there, in one direction or another. But you'll tell me, this time, let's leave it. Okay. So let's go to the pedestrians. Dialogue. Dialogue is not a dialogue of sincere decisions, nor is it a dialogue of inertia. It is a dialogue that listens to society, which we are relocating at some point, because dialogue has a practical usefulness. Improve education, make the public education system even more reliable. In this sense, we, yes, hear and do not fear us. The proof is that without having tabled any amendments to the House, but making an informal consultation with all the parties and the educational bodies, with a project concerning the history of the recruitment of teachers, we have heard and said that there was also the encouragement of some aspects to go ahead - I mean, outside the SYRIZA - and we have thought about it and found another solution not to create a further social problem against thousands of teachers, to whom we owe the school's function, especially the years of the memorandum. Educational, who operate under the hostage regime today and to whom we are once again giving the promise - I would say the commitment better - that they will be the ones who will be able to appoint through the appointing system that we will soon be able to have - and I say that this possibility will be given shortly - for permanent appointments to the public after so many years of undeterminedness that the Memorandum governments have condemned us. Is there a plan? We've filed it. If anyone doesn't know, we can give it to him. No objections. It's a public plan. We have submitted it to both the troika and the political and educational forces everywhere. Therefore, dialogue without preconceived decisions proves it, without fait accompli and without inertia, a dialogue which each demonstrates their political responsibility to solve problems and increase education. Of course, as I said earlier, we hear many different views on the subject of education. We believe that public education is central to the backbone of the education system in our country and that private education, which is another aspect of the uniformly supervised education in our country, cannot extend to the tertiary level, i.e. there are no private universities. We also believe - and we stress - that being able to spread best practices, capabilities and all children throughout Greece - inclusive - to be able to attend a better level of education, these are not equating practices downwards, they are practices to raise the level of education. In this sense, the full-day school, the single school we are now establishing, the single-day primary school, is in a direction of increasing the education process and spreading good practice across the country. Now, don't tell us that if he cuts out an hour of gymnastics in the South Elementary and an hour from another secondary class in the Elementary, that this degrades school to nothing. It's not like that. It's all written down. On the contrary, we raise the bar throughout Greece for the quality of courses and schools. The important thing is that we have been doing this in budgetary terms, in circumstances where the EMS funds, which have been through - five funds - have been over the past twenty years from our country and have only been to a small extent today. The state budget has the well-known reality and yet we do not shrink, instead we extend. And in order for the demagogy to end, the full-day school will continue to exist and will be upgraded throughout the country and those who today mimic in misleading and say that the full-day school is closed will soon be ridiculed. Because they may today cause through their alliance with the corrupt media power a concern - logical is - to a section uninformed of public opinion, but that is what you know is a 'Sunday short celebration'. It'll show. I would like to assure the National Representation that in the entire school there will be the possibility of going not only to those parents who work but also to people and children whose parents are typically unemployed but actually are people of black work. There are large areas where unemployment coexists with black labour. What's the point of asking a large category of fellow citizens who work in the foot, on foot jobs, on elementary survival? Even more we will add social criteria, such as single parent families, laundry children, prisoners' children, parents' children with chronic diseases, parents' children who are in rehab programs. It is clear that the full-day school, which has a dominant educational role for us, also has a role of social functionality and utility. And that will be extended as a function of the new single type of full-day primary school. I would also like to inform you, because many people are hearing, that the full-time schools are two thirds of all primary schools and that they account for half the school population. One third, the ESA corresponds to the other half of the school population in Greece. The numbers are checked. That's how it is. No lower, no higher. It's half a mile. Although they're two thirds to a third. Computers didn't exist in the classics all day, in the two thousand eighteen. He enters every class now at the single-day primary school. Theatrical treatment was not in the classics all day, in the two thousand and two hundred eighteen. It comes from an hour, from the first to the fourth to the single type of primary school. Physical treatment increases by one hour in the first, second, third and fourth grades. The aesthetic treatment is growing from one hour in the first and second grades. We put in the four-and-a-half-second foreign language, French or German, where this possibility has so far not been available. English did not exist in the first and second grades of general schools. Now, English is getting into the single-type school full-day. In all the uniform types, time of study, preparation with a teacher enters compulsory. The second hour - in the full day I always talk - is chosen by a set of objects, such as English, visual, theatrical, music, gymnastics, cultural groups and others. So that you do not easily say that, firstly, you will close the whole day - you will be disproved - and secondly, that it does not raise the level of the whole day that extends everywhere. I would like to tell you that I do not want to blame everyone. I heard Mr. Kefaliannis earlier from New Democracy, but also other colleagues who did not hold their names, and did not adopt the risk line of Mr. Mitsotakis and the other members of the New Democracy that they are closing municipal elections. They did not adopt the yellowism of the "SKAI" and the other TV stations of interactivity. They heard what we said and gave us the opportunity - and thank you for thinking so - to see what will happen in September. Here we will be and you will see that those who shout today will be disgusted and subjected to this ruthless policy. Secondly, we are concerned about the issue of kindergartens. I repeat once again that no kindergarten will be closed because it will not have the number fourteen as a minimum. It will not close any kindergarten which had seven children last year and this year has no fourteen and there will be a problem. None. We're stressing it. In practice these schools will work. I would also like to tell you that there is a provision for a minimum number of five. I would also like to stress that when the law that applied to your own governments said of schools or kindergartens with twenty-fifths of masters per class, saying that they must go to the fourteen maxims - because this is the debate that is taking place between us, for the fourteen maxims - it is absurd. This is also pedagogical irrationalism - I spoke about the collaborative process of education in kindergartens - and also about economic irrationality. Look, we're not hiding. The arrangements we have brought are pedagogical studies, they are to improve and upgrade the public school, they are steps in democratic educational reform. However, all steps are taken within a framework determined by the economy. Is anyone here who forgets the recent report "to the last analysis"? Is anyone in here who forgets this thing? "At the end of the day," the late "economic" said. We say 'the economy is in the final analysis' because without money you can do nothing. Nevertheless, we'll find money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u578	Who's the late guy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u579	Marx is the late, dear, and he has been accused of economicism, even for this phrase, but I omit criticism and go to the point. After all, the late, the economy, who believes in here and in society that when we have within seven years, eight years' loss by 25% of GDP, when GDP has fallen from EUR 220 to EUR 170 billion, can you easily maintain, let alone expand certain activities of the state? It's a crucial question. We also answer that question: Yes! And we are maintaining and expanding and taking steps with a dynamic - they are not ending today - public school support. We talked about the issue of appointments. Don't get tired. I do not know what other representatives of the parties are talking about here, we have publicly committed ourselves to this text to you and to the institutions and I repeat: a short celebration. It will end the evaluation and you will see that we will be in a normality - it is very fashionable - and on the question of the functioning of the state and its necessary staff with people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u580	Will you need more time, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u581	Of course, of course. The question of technical education is an issue that has been wronged in the debate in this House for two reasons. The first is because the others are more catchy, badly lying, and the debate is taking place today on a level. I don't want to blame anyone, and I might be like this. Suddenly, Mr. Mitsotakis made a public statement yesterday for the full day. Yes, sir. He knew it was a lie, but it doesn't matter. It's "seasony" he's telling you. Technical training is the great patient of the educational system and children are the great unjust. They're children, they're students treated as second grade students. I would remind you of the conflict that took place years ago on the minister of the late Arsenis, who was his political initiative to bring the early class option to 15 and reached 40% of technical education and 60% of general education. It was a disastrous choice. And then, when he relaxed a little bit with Mr. Evthymios and the various situations and we arrived today to be the relationship around 30-70 between the PCA and general education, there remains an upgrade theme. Vocational training must be attractive, must be a conscious choice of the student, i.e. providing him with conditions of creative development of its particular gradients and professional rehabilitation. We cannot achieve this by driving the student, as I said, into the early choice of specialty at fifteen. It's disastrous socially, educationally, in terms of democracy, to force a child to his fifteen-year-old what occupation he's going to do. Why isn't that true in the rest of the school system? Therefore, the first class of the ESDP must be a single first class, with wider areas in the second class and specialties in the third class. This is the new structure of the ESDP, which we are proposing. We are also establishing the optional post-polluter year, the class of apprenticeship, giving remuneration and insurance rights to the graduates of the ESDP, as well as a pre-service certificate. Not black paper. For the first time, two new possibilities are also introduced to the ESDP graduates. The first is that the possibility of accessing the TEI is widened through the specific pan-language examinations for PES graduates. It's a bonus that we're helping. It is a positive class selection measure, a bonus, for children who also come from popular categories with fewer supplies and class qualifications, to be able to test in other spaces and enter universities, TEI or HEI. It also restored the possibility of graduates of the ESDP - it had been abolished by the n. It is also true that there is a need for the Commission to take action to ensure that the Community's policies are respected. The changes introduced by the ESDP will begin gradually in September. They have the status of transitional changes as a bridge from the existing PCA structure until the public debate on the vocational education and training system is completed, from which a full study of the content of changes in PSAs will emerge. That is our proposal for technical education. I would like to tell you that for all the changes in education it is decided - I would say from alpha to omega, because omega is a political responsibility - the Institute for Educational Policy. No change, which we promote in secondary and primary education, does not take place in the absence of IPP and much more with the IPP across the street. Does the previous colleagues know whether the EIPs in 2010 had the approval of the EIP? We need to rethink the EPP files to see, because from what we remember in the public debate there was a strong reaction of members of the EPP in this anti-educational political choice of the government at the time, Mrs Diamantopoulou, for the schools I mentioned earlier. You're going to tell me: does it matter now to discuss what happened then? It is important from a classic point of view who takes the decisions, if decisions are based on scientific criteria by the state body, such as EPA, or if they are "caubolique" of the Minister, which "cauboliki" often, as you know, has to do with large pie, with large contracts to obtain educational material, digital and more. That's what happened then. That is how much money from the NSRP was eaten. I repeat. Let us look at whether there has been a positive decision by the EPP on this terrible, as we have heard now, a school, which - I repeat, I do not think at all - has had many positive points, which we appreciate and many negative ones have been mentioned. We reform it today, we expand it, we make a formula uniform throughout Greece of the entire primary school, because there is no totem. That means the pilot, just like the PD. Now I'm going to the least important, you're going to tell me things. The article on transfers from secondary to tertiary is an obsession with a colleague from the moment the bill appeared. This provision, as we have explained, is a provision that does not close. On the contrary, it is now open. It is open to anyone who has these formal qualifications. We are actually talking about university qualifications. In other words, a man of primary school, a graduate with a PhD and a publication in scientific literature for at least two years, whoever, in our opinion, has the right to be judged by two keys. The first is one of the service councils opening the door and unlocking the opportunity to go from secondary or primary to higher education. Secondly, by the competent institution, which considers and accepts or rejects the application of the person or person concerned. These are clean things. It's a process that doesn't end. It concerns anyone who wants to be in the future and concerns a lot of people right now and not a few people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u582	Why are you retiring?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u583	Because I repeat, we make it easier for people. We've been asked by a lot of people, not a few, to keep this clause from happening. The conversation's clear. The whole other thing, when you insist, I'm afraid he has another kind of explanation. We have heard more evidence of criticism. One question has been raised why we are abolishing OAS high school and that this is a blow to excellence. These are terrible things. The OAED can't have high school. High school is an element of formal education and formal education is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. Everything else is out of pedagogical perception and order. That is why we do not want there to be OAED and any other Ministry of High Schools. We want him to be at the Ministry of Education. We're talking with clear words. We are also moving forward with a number of time restrictions - it is true - the abolition of vocational training schools created by Law 4686/2013 and only operated four of the ninety-fifths which are expected to operate at that time. Total failure of an institution! Apparently, that doesn't like some. Evidently some would have thought of substituting this failure by private teachers. That's not our concern. On the contrary! Other discussions and other ideologies have been heard. Look, I don't want to get into the debate of excellence, of minor effort and of the equation downwards. It is a debate that does not benefit the old political system. I want to make two comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u584	And with this to complete, Minister, because we have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u585	I fear that you are acting on an object as a protector of the old political system, Mr President! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u586	After half an hour? The tenth is half an hour!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u587	All right! Don't you want to hear them? Don't listen to it, no objections! I'll see you some other time. But remember something. First, who dismantled hundreds of schools overnight? Who fired a few thousand teachers, mainly from technical education, overnight? Who in September, instead of sharing books, was giving photocopies of teachers' money to every school? Probably who, not who, as far as the latter is concerned. Who were they chasing the teachers with the punishing evaluation and dismantling the schools for a couple of years? Who have led to the abolition of public investment in education by about 40% in the Memorandum? Who, while under their own policy, collapsed the public education system, became a private-trained dealer? And who, even today, deny the self-evident reintroduction of the status of public education supervision in the field of private education? I am telling you this because we must not be 'birth-eaters', remember. What did a colleague say? He talked about goldfish. All right, I'm saying it more literaryly, we shouldn't be 'blue-eaters'. I have no appetite right now, right now, to talk intensely. I'm just reminding you of images so we don't forget. And it is wrong - I repeat this - to include the debate yesterday and today in the general context of the political debate which will be sealing the political debate tomorrow and tomorrow both in this Chamber and outside this Chamber. Keep training from these procedures in a relative autonomy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u588	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u589	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u590	I want to ask SYRIZA's MP, Ms. Kasimatti, about something that has been mentioned. Like you gave Mr. Treasury the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u591	No, my colleague, it's not!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u592	No, I'm sorry. He referred to something about the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u593	Please, you don't have the floor. He made a political position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u594	She can tell me what she's in place for, why did I read something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u595	He referred to the Centro Association, as we are talking about in the New Democracy and SYRIZA and all parties. It's not a personal matter at all. It's not personal. Otherwise you can't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u596	Of course, he has referred to himself!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u597	You can't take the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u598	I'm sorry, did he refer to the Central Association and said we were talking about a European currency? That's what he referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u599	It was a political criticism. Other hours, in fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u600	Did he refer to the name?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u601	Let me go, please, you don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u602	No, to explain to me what he referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u603	This is not the type of dialogue we are talking about. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u604	Did he refer to a name? He said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u605	Please, you don't have the floor and I can't give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u606	I'm sorry, the ministers tell you Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u607	But please don't insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u608	Mr Muzalas mentioned the term "Macedonia"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u609	But please don't insist. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u610	The Minister of National Defence was tearing up his clothes! We have never mentioned the term "Macedonia"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u611	You don't sound and nothing is written in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u612	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u613	You don't have the floor. Sit down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity "The Single Social Security System - Reformation of an insurance - pension scheme - Income tax arrangements and gambling". Mr. Dendia, I had already announced Mrs. Karamanlis, but I think you want to talk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u614	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u615	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Denkias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u616	Mr President, after the Minister, I imagine I have thirty-five minutes, about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u617	You'll have the eight minutes, with a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u618	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u619	I just gave Mr. Friend an arbitrary ten minutes. Apparently I should have given a lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u620	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u621	But I imagine you can answer what you want within your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u622	Ladies and gentlemen, we should consult on some things. Because tomorrow there will be - it is certain - tension, let us follow the example of the Minister, that there will be no tension in the Chamber today, and that we will retain forces for tomorrow. But we have to agree on how to legislate here. We must commit ourselves to how we legislate. I'm saying the self-evident thing, but it's obviously incomprehensible. Why is it heterosexual? Because not only are you constantly irregular and illegal, but you have done so, I fear, and believe justice. And that's worse. I say to you first - and this is not a threat - that this will be put to the Conference of Presidents and for us it will be perpendicular, the legalisation of this form that has taken place in these two days will not be repeated in this Chamber. I'm telling you quite clearly so that we don't get any misunderstandings. I give you the last legislative change you have made. It's a whole paragraph. That is what is called a late amendment. I am also upset by other things and I am much more sad about them. I'll tell you why they're upsetting me. The people who sign these amendments with their name and presence in me inspire me respect. And I'm sorry. And I'll tell you at the end because I'm sorry on a personal level. On a political level, however, I would like to ask you: I think that most or all of you are teachers. You have tabled an amendment to the procedure for the selection and development of teachers. Is that a serious thing? I don't know if you're right or wrong, I'm telling you honestly. I would be very happy if we were to hold this dialogue. And with great pleasure, if you think that the existing system is not right - I know that much of the university community is in favour of this provision that you have brought - to change it. But that honors you? Is it an honour for you to come with an amendment as a whole to have one of the most important provisions relating to university education, without any element of parliamentary or substantive dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u623	Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u624	I'm talking about the process of selecting and developing teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u625	It's four days. It's late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u626	No, no, you don't understand. I didn't say it was late. I said it was done with an amendment. I have the full text and the date of deposit. Is it possible for this matter to be resolved by means of an amendment? I'll tell you about the delay right after. Honestly, however, if I had prevented you, I would ask you in private and outside Ethiopia not to testify because he is presenting you. Apart from you, Parliament is also presenting itself. Apart from Parliament, it also sets out the view that you are defending with this amendment, which may be correct. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u627	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u628	Because these are not tabled in an amendment. I'm sorry, but they're people who have the presumption of university knowledge. I hope that they have the least respect in the opposite view and therefore present their views to the suffering provided for in the test to come to a legislative resolution rather than a plan, by means of the amendment, which has another purpose. As if that were not enough, however, which is too heavy, there is even worse, the fifty-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u629	You're saying the countings?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u630	No, I don't want to personalize. I try not to impersonate what I'm saying, because I think it makes no sense on television or anyone to expose any name. The people concerned understand it very well. I'm the one who's working on it, not the faces. So I say, is it really possible to respect ourselves and come and deposit such things? These things can't be done. It is certain that we will vote against everything, but you must vote against all, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, because you know how it will be used? Anyhow, there's another House coming and you see it. Do you want to come in a few months or a few more months? Another House is coming. Will you like to display these instruments with your signatures in the other House, as examples of corruption or interactivity, or in any case any other self-incentive? Does that honor you? Why do you do it to yourself? Save at least your heterosexuality. This is very important. I come to the own piece of legislation, and I won't say much. The legislation, in whatever part of the investigation, gives rise to a ministry which is completely unexplained. Why? Are there no bodies that can choose persons and procedures? Does the Minister have to have everything on him? As far as the ESRB is concerned, there is supposed to be a committee that selects the proposed ones. Previously four of the six members of this committee were appointed on the basis of their capacity, and now all six are chosen by the Minister. So he chooses the present Minister, the six members who will choose from a list from the eleven members who will become the board, that is to say he chooses those who propose to him. And that's what he calls serious regulation. And as if this were not enough, it also reserves its absolute discretion to transitional arrangement the temporary ETUC of the seventeen members. And as an answer, the Minister presents the highest parliamentary arrogance. What does it say in the Greek Parliament? "Wait to see the faces I choose and you'll be convinced that I'm right." Really? Is there someone who has the absolute truth and can choose the perfect faces himself? Does he have such knowledge? And assuming that we have the alps in this government, which I fear the government's term of office alone does not prove - the next Minister, who may not be so skilled, will have this advantage of pansophy? Is this a good parliamentary practice? Why are we doing this, ladies and gentlemen, in a piece of legislation which, in addition to the neomarxist views of the research direction, etc., can we come up with synergies and similar confrontations? Why is this thing going on? Why are you doing this? I'm telling you again. Why do you do it to yourself? Why do you do it in the House, and why do you do it in the country? Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great debate - and the Minister has also been present - and I have to say that I have tried to convince myself, but I have not been convinced - of paragraph 7 of Article 33. What does the Minister say here? What did he say? He told us that when one is very good in mid- or lower-education, we should allow him to become a teacher in higher education. And this, in my view, is also a deplorable reasoning in the explanatory statement. He's not writing anything else. It is a paragraph where these two lines are the reasoning. I don't understand. Aren't we saying here a while ago that we miss teachers in the middle and lower education and many even? Now what are we talking about? That, though, of the missing people, who are good to leave? That is what we have to do here, that is a contribution to the problems of lower and medium-sized education! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your two-minute tolerance. That is why, Minister, I am not ready to charge you selfishly. But I honestly warn you that it will be impressive if, after one, two or three months, this provision concerns people who have been whispered within the Greek Parliament. I don't want to repeat whispers either. I'm telling you, honestly. I believe that anyone who has an institutional role must be protected and I will not repeat anything they have said to me outside Ethiopia. But take good care not to show yourself, because we are in danger of a suspicious society giving food and that is not appropriate. I would like to say another thing which, in the context of a monumental socialism, was repeated today by the Minister with regard to Mr Mitsotakis, the President of the New Democracy and the word 'client'. I explained it yesterday in the intense, I have to say, my protology. The word 'client' is not what you are trying to give as a concept. It recommends acceptance of the right of education on the basis of the price paid by taxes, i.e. through the legacy of the Greek people. The word 'client' is compared with the word 'worker' and suggests the person who has the right to education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u631	What's the citizen? There is the word 'citizen'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u632	Why? Do we have to analyze the whole vocabulary here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u633	Excuse me, Mr. Dendia, why do you go to the client? Isn't there the citizen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u634	You understand - in our view, you can say something else, I am sure - the recipient of education services as a national and not as a citizen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u635	As a client and not a citizen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u636	We want to declare his right to receive services similar to that which the Greek citizen pays to the Greek State. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u637	You want citizens on the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u638	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u639	You may agree or disagree with us, but we have explained it so many times that, please, doing this dialogue again for the 20th time is of no importance. At the end of the day, it is clear that we have some ideological differences and that is what the Minister said at the end of private education. We also understand private education as a fully useful body under the present conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u640	Out of public supervision?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u641	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u642	Minister, I see I was wrong. I confess to you. At first I praised you, but that's not the case. You are wicked enough that even your tone when it is mild hides despicability, not to say wickedness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u643	But don't molest me. We talk straight and narrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u644	Let's finish our thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u645	What can I do, Mr. President? The Minister answers everything I say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u646	In fact, you're right about that. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u647	In conclusion - I do not want to get far, as tomorrow we will have a very intense debate and a great deal of time - you will allow me to say a personal experience that I have experienced today, as I think it is in the Chamber. Young people who are sympathetic to me and I think very well-intentioned colleagues have spoken and accused the New Democracy and myself of a series of mistakes, bad management practices, etc. And he unfolded all the vision of a triumphant Left with pan-human meaning and with a general perception of things. Most of you were here, and you heard it. Do you remember how this triumphant speech for the Left ended, ladies and gentlemen? It concluded with the proposal to permanentize a temporary metropolitan in Thessaly. That's your tragedy. You are not a triumphant in favour of humanism on the left. Unfortunately, you have turned into a group that manages ruffles of the days of Deligiorg. You don't have time to save your government service. I'm not telling you that with evil or anything else. Your course is specified. But you have a long time to save, at least on a personal level, your posterity. What was done yesterday and today in this Chamber and the legislative work that was produced and voted on by the majority, does not even honour your blasphemy. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u648	Thank you, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u649	Mr President, could I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u650	For what, Mr. Gavroglou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u651	Almost personal...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u652	But there's no personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u653	Let the Bureau judge if there is, Mrs Antoniou. Let the Bureau judge it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u654	Your opinion of why it's personal...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u655	But if each rapporteur is to take the floor, he could have referred to a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u656	Would you like to give your place to Mrs. Antoniou, to preside over?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u657	No, no. Mrs. Antoniou will think I'm quite noble...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u658	As for those who signed the amendments, there were expressions which touch a personal reproach, we should sort of clear things out for one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u659	All right, Mr. Gavroglou. Here, you have the floor for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u660	Thank you, Mr President. We have been accused of those who have signed the amendment of the compromise, and we have been called upon to protect our fascination. We're not going to protect our blasphemy. It is not in our political culture, nor is it the involvement. What I want to ask directly is whether there is a logic here which says what kind of amendments Members can table and what kind of amendments Members cannot table. As far as I understand it, there is no such thing and I would ask that this kind of practice and such suggestions should not be accepted. As far as the substance is concerned, SYRIZA universities have taken the responsibility of proposing the abolition of an academically indisputable way of electing and developing teaching staff, and I repeat, of course, it has the consent of the vast majority of the university community, not to say to you all. This type of election has indeed been exposed to both Greece and internationally. Secondly, with the other amendments, what we want to say is that we are protecting as many unselfish and unhelpful as they have served the universities and through a caffician - literally cafficician - bureaucracy as today is called on to pay money from their pockets and their properties. We consider this unacceptable and it is a moral and political statement that the amendment was tabled as an amendment by the SYRIZA universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u661	Thank you, Mr. Gabroglou. Before I give Mrs Karamanlis the floor, let you know where we are. We had said and agreed this morning that we'd be done around 20:00, by 20:30. It's 21.15. Here are five or six Members, Mrs Vaki as SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. There will also be two - three observations. Mr. Fotakis wants to say a few words and Mrs. Deputy Minister. He has also asked for the floor by Mr Delis and Mr Mavrotas and we are closing. I would ask the following speakers - first of all, Mrs Karamanlis, to give the good example - as long as we can be shortened in time to complete in a reasonable time, so that we do not get too far from our time. Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u662	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to say to Mr Gavroglou that Mr. Deedias did not say whether you were right or wrong. The way you're moving is not the guy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u663	Princes as to what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u664	And there should be dialogue and debate and not come in the form of an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u665	Four days he was in committee. Isn't that enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u666	That was our objection. It's not about whether you're right or wrong and how right or how wrong you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u667	Five years the academic community has discussed this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u668	The issues of education and research should therefore be a key component of a national strategy. It is what we used to call a 'national affair'. That is why we should be approaching them honestly and with a greater debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u669	Let's not talk a little underneath and listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u670	I would like to ask, Minister, what your approach is. At the time when the famous national dialogue on education is taking place, you are bringing many provisions relating to the whole range of education, of course, to prove that dialogue is biased and is done for the eyes of the world. It reminds us a little, we would say, of the supposed government negotiation with the institutions. Even the application of the new type of "purified" full-day school was made by a ministerial decision, without any prior dialogue. At this point I would like to tell you two things, Minister, with all due respect. Firstly, there are no primary and secondary courses in education. This is long over. Secondly, as Minister of Education primarily and as parent secondly, you should know that Greeks are obese. We've got a sad lead in the world. So 'it is nothing to reduce an hour of gymnastics in the sixth grade', I think it should not be an approach by a responsible Minister of Education. Now that we go to the bill under discussion, the first chapter on research is, in fact, an amendment to Law No.4310/14, a law which, although early to be judged, may have had some weaknesses. However, the sure thing is that it served a structured and clear national strategy for research and innovation, a strategy that would allow us to be competitive as a country, to exploit the results of research and produce wealth, in response to the needs of the real economy, without overlooking and reducing the value of basic research, with research centres able to operate with enhanced independence and in cooperation with private individuals, to be oriented on growth and entrepreneurship and linked to the labour market, the real labour market and not the distribution of fixed-term contracts in university research programmes. In the bill under discussion, there is no clear position of the Government on research, but only a stitch of regulations. And despite the fact that Mr. Fotakis, who is aware of the subject, spoke about linking research to productive activities, what we see to dominate is the effort to control research by the central authority by collecting responsibilities and powers to the Minister of Education and an undetermined mechanism of the Ministry, which will have a say in the design and implementation of research and innovation policy, with the control of the National Research Council, with the change in the process of selecting directors of research centres, where you use, Minister, the same patent, followed by the managers of education, with the suspension of the establishment and operation of strategic research centres in the Greek region. So cores of your legislative initiative are to strengthen control and party influence. In the chapters on education you have not escaped your dear method of masturbating, with fragmentary initiatives and perfume of rushphetology. In Article 26, the institutions' councils were an important innovation aimed at upgrading our universities, in the logic of development, extroversion and accountability. This government has inactivated them and led them to further dismantling, paving the way for their definitive marginalisation. With their substitution by the senate returns to the former regime, which we all know was characterized by customer relations, favorableness and opacity. We would also like you to clarify exactly what constitutes 'weakness' in decision-making by the Councils. Who will assess it and on what criteria? Because creative ambiguity, with which it has been formulated, generally and vaguely refers to the possibility of the convening to decide instead of the council. Unless "weakness" means invasion of well-known student groups, which "democratly" prevent councils from meeting. Who, of course, are patronizing these groups and subsidising their actions is known. In addition, this article provides legality for the Republican Councils set up by Law 4009/2011, which did not provide for the establishment of this institution. In other words, arbitrary and irregular decisions by universities, which ignored the law in force, are being ratified. Is this a suggestion of progress and reform or regression? Article 33(7) provides for the possibility of transferring primary and secondary education teachers to the EITs and to places of laboratory teaching staff. There has already been acute criticism of the feasibility of this provision and of those it photographs. It obviously also forms part of the moral advantage of the Left. Beyond faces, however, we should focus on the inconsistency of the Ministry of Education's leadership. On the one hand, the Minister admits the existence of three and a half thousand vacancies and announces twenty thousand recruitments until 2018 and, on the other, creates the preconditions for leaving schools and, on the other hand, a quality piece, "educated qualifications", as he said. Do our schools have this luxury? Do these teachers have to spare them? To strengthen university workshops, but not to the detriment of students. I hope that the people who the Minister wants to hire, to keep them in schools and not to use them as a passport for other public services, because of course the government has given similar samples of writing, we all know that in this Chamber. Finally, the Government proceeds with the decriminalisation of conquests, Article 45. We have even heard Mrs Readostopoulos telling us that the occupation is a means of strengthening democracy. Is it, then, more democratic than ever, a country that tolerates the occupation of public school property and vandalism, which are generally accompanying it? Because, rather, "bambling" refers. Is it a progressive attitude to substantially encourage the padlocks imposed by all kinds of minorities in schools? It's anachronistic to keep the schools open. And what's the message the state sends to these kids? The impunity and immunity. So that we can deprive the rest of the school community of access to school without consequences, that we break them, nothing runs, the account will be sent elsewhere, to the defenceless taxpayer. These are, unfortunately, the ideological claws in these cases too, unfortunately, whatever you sow. I shall close, Mr President, I shall conclude. The government's results in the sensitive area of education speak for themselves. Demonstration of excellence, hideouts to eternal students, party domination everywhere, unprecedented bump with thousands of gaps in schools. This is the fingerprint of the government and does not change with this bill. Education policy is not the "photographic" arrangements, nor any kind of party arrangements and services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u671	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis. Mr. Mitafidis, MP of SYRIZA I Thessaloniki, has the floor. As long as we can be in time, Mr. Mitafidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u672	Thank you, Mr President. Let me inform you, Mrs Karamanlis and fellow Members of the New Democracy that we are also against the criminalisation of student claims. Lucetta the employers put when they close your business...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u673	"We"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u674	...which you prefer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u675	You prefer them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u676	...and there are locks, of course, in prisons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u677	You're taking them out, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u678	We are therefore in favour of open student claims. The student is a tenant of the school, and it's not a catastrophe. I am presenting this to you because it happened to fund for at least twenty years in ELMEO Thessaloniki and the 2/3 of my life are linked to public education and to the struggles for democracy, because you need to learn something from the historic acquis of the Left. I say this to Mr Dendia, who does not seem to be admonishing to the left. You've taken care of us under your protection, don't take any chances of straying. Let us protect ourselves. So I want to tell you something to find out. It concerns not what, in my opinion, is called the 'ethical advantage of the Left'. I want to talk to you about the historic acquis on the Left and to summarise it in a phrase, because we are under economic coercion, in a lasting state of emergency. Let me summarise this by repeating the lyrics of a fellow citizen of mine - Salonikos - he - of Nazim Hickmet, who spent much of his life in prisons defending the same values. 'The issue' - says - 'it is not if you are a prisoner, but do not surrender'. We have not surrendered, nor intend to surrender. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We know, of course, that this is annoying you, as it is annoying the country's lenders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u679	Tomorrow you vote for the 5.5 billion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u680	What do you say to us every day? "You are bad students, you are unacceptably learning, you spend too much money, but you do not learn in the school where you have gone." That's what you keep telling us. You say that "we do not comply with the suggestions", that we are causing creditors and, therefore, they are fighting the country. That's what you tell us every day. And another thing: let Mr. Dendias not do his leader's 'usmologist'. "Lanthanian language..." - our ancient ancestors said - "...the truth says." Isn't that right? I want to say two things, Minister. Because you quite rightly said that we are in an open dialogue with society, we are being bombed by phone calls, suggestions and the agony of the world. And we must respond with responsibility to these issues, despite the fact that we are in a very difficult situation right now. We're cramped on every side and shot at both the back and the chest, but we're resistant to them. We're out of a tough time, and that's why neither but the butchers are afraid - I'm talking about the stationed butchers - nor those who think we're going to fall under this pressure. We're not going to do them the favor, because we've taken a historical responsibility, and we're not here because we want to make a political career. The oldest of our shoes, the political career. Take this news, we tell you on account of knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u681	Wow, that's nice!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u682	Minister, with regard to technical training, the suffering, I would expect all of us to expect to do so, despite the difficulties that exist. I will say this in symbolic terms: we declare technical vocational training in an educational and social priority area. That's very important. It has a social aspect that everyone understands and that is why the class policy of our predecessors has been hit there. It's very typical where you hit. You hit where the poorest, the weakest. And don't forget that we brought the law on citizenship. Two hundred thousand children, who would leave the country while they were born and went to our schools, would be outside these schools. And these schools are supported by the refugees, what happened to Greek education. Since I don't have any more time, I'm going to submit the relevant documentation for vocational training. There are issues to be clarified in the relevant article, which I believe is inappropriate to the effort we are making. You have put it as an amendment - in any case - concerning technical training. There are issues that, in my opinion, need to be clarified in relation to professional rights, the relevance between courses and professional rights. I believe that in the next decrees and ministerial decisions that will come out, they will have been clarified because they have raised questions. There is one issue - if you want - and from an educational and educational point of view. The children who are going to attend the second class of the PSAs - as we understand - will follow the new programme. That's a problem. There are concerns and we need these issues to be answered. Because I don't have time, I'll testify these documents to you. I shall also present a memorandum to you sent by many colleagues from the ESDP. It's about the relationship between electrology and electronics. In my opinion, these issues need to be resolved. In your recent ministerial decisions - I have one on 29 February 2016 - this distinction is very clear. However, as you can see, because we are in a state of general mistrust even for the good we do, we must be as clear as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u683	Thanks to Rose Mitafidis, MP SYRIZA I Thessaloniki. The reason for this is now the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Fotini Vakis, for eight minutes and I should like to ask him consistently in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u684	Ladies and gentlemen, it is time. We are coming to the end of a great process, during which the debate was quite fertile, although it has been fascinated many times - I will come to it later - I will not resist the temptation to respond to Mr Tindemans' objections to the amendments bearing our signatures and I shall speak in my capacity as a university teacher. I am not just ashamed of myself, but I am proud to have signed these amendments, and I am glad to say that the first concerns fines. What's the matter with you that an amendment has been made? Is the guy the problem or the substance? What are we talking about? For the dialectics of the Diamantopoulou Act, which were done in secret and violating, in a bucket, abolishing the ability of the academic crisis and canceling it? The crisis is something very serious. It is worth its name and it is only termed as such when it is done in public. The crisis makes sense as a public consultation, which takes place within an academic department, which also wanted to ratify and abolish the Diamantopoulou Law, because one morning it remembered that it had to change - and it decided - the DNA of universities, writing in its old shoes the opinion of the academic community and the consultation of the academic community. You see that the laws on universities and changes in the DNA of universities are decisions that fall within the political will of the ministry's own political leadership. These selectives, as they were - I repeat - on a bucket, canceling the concept of public consultation, were only geared to academic lobotomy. They denounced and completely defiled all academic processes. And that must finally change. Now, the charges of the University of Crete: It is a disgrace to legitimise and contribute to all of this propaganda made by the flagships and indignant disinformation against the universities, who are bewildered, swept away, reported daily as corrupt, plucky, etc. Of all this yellow press, and we need to be more careful. It is a very well-known story and - I beg your pardon - it does not concern the two, three, Mr Stathakis, whom you mentioned, at the time, was an assistant professor and who happened to be a member of the senate - it concerns the entire Senate of the University of Crete. It concerns the prices and suspicions of our selective colleagues who have been slashed in court - on occasion they have been acquitted three times - and this story will have to end once. A story about what? The most legitimate use of the special account's resources in order to improve anachronistic health care system. Finally, with regard to the insufficient funds - there is this amendment - of the specific accounts, which discover the functional needs of university institutions. It's very important. And you know why? To finally put an end to this disgrace called outsourcing, namely contractors, rented workers. Let me remind you, and why are you swinging our finger now that we are not making any appointments, as you did, when you had thrown so many university managers, if you remember, that these redundancies were also a pretext for becoming the universities of glory of brilliant corporations and contractors. So let's end it. And to remind me of a name, it belongs to this category: Constantina Kuneva. Well, those on the amendments. Let's get things cleared up. I would also like to leave the spirit and the letter of the law I spoke about yesterday and say that a lot of vulnerability has been heard in this Chamber and it is, at least, sad to see you surpassed, ladies and gentlemen, in a delicacy of risk and terror. You are terrorizing today from the Step a whole society, which you have broken up. You have the courage to abandon this government for authoritarian rule. North Korea you told us that we were completely authoritarian, that today the channels were showing the strike mediator, etc. In fact - let us say this - a colleague who dared to say that Mr Stakoura was struggling with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, because she reminded us of Marfin's anniversary today. Let me remind you that all the political forces of the constitutional arch expressed their condolences. This is not a matter and I do not understand what the conclusion was and what the implied. Do you want to repeat your dear theory of both ends, save and de the Left must be equalised to terrorists? Look, after the Civil War, in the post-American, post-war state, the left were the "commons" and the "bowls". Aifne, now, they're the terrorists. Stop, in any case, reading a psalm. Stop a little reading all the flagships of interlocutory and read something more essential. Now for totalitarianism, a bit, because we have different terms. What totalitarianism? I am only seeing totalitarianism on the channels of interlocutory, which have worked for so many years under an illegal and mandated regime in propaganda. I would remind you of the black one you put on public television. And another thing, because for you, the transition to anti-Civilization is tantamount to precipitation, a little two and a half thousand redundancies and a night coup d'état of technical education. Innocent? No, of course, because the next day all of this became private IEK specialties. This is our difference, ladies and gentlemen, because it is the customer and the citizen. It's a huge difference. Should we also remind ourselves of the preventive remits of our fellow strikers in mid-training? Because, of course, the strike had ceased to be a right. Should we remind you of how you were dragging minor children, students to the prosecutors? Should the D.A. substituting the teacher? Is that the excellence you're evangelizing? Should we even remind you that you were dragging the prosecutors of the University Associations' Board of Directors because they dared to show protest - as if our colleagues were hooligans - against the Diamantopoulou Act?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u685	Finish, Mrs. Vaki, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u686	I'd just like a minute, please. All I would like to say - I would like to say more - about all the dangers that you have done from the step of Parliament to negotiate and that the negotiation will fail and that the country will also fail the well-known paraphilis and dangers are to stop terrorizing the world. Let me remind Members of the Democratic Partnership that it is shameful that your attitude towards the negotiation of the Greek Government with the institutions is disgraceful. The Democratic Reconciliation is, moreover, completely isolated within the European Socialist Party. I do not say it, they call it senior officials of the Euro-Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u687	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u688	Yeah, wait a minute. Let me remind you of another name, Gianni Pitella, which has undermined the institutions' attitude to the Greek Government and is wondering what Europe we are living in. Have you, fellow Members, decided who you are with? Are you with a well-determined society that is trying to stand on its feet or are you with fans, the austerity enthusiasts and a Europe that leaps between austerity, recession and lately fascism? And I'm just finishing up with one comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u689	Yes, but please, we've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u690	I'll take my tritology, too. I am going to make a comment on the Foundation Councils, because that is why there has been a great deal of talk. Look, we've exhausted the subject. No one is undermining members, some of them are prominent members of the Institutions' councils. They were self-determination by their actions and practices. Let me tell you, after all this four years - shortly - of the Foundation Councils remind me of what George Papandreou said about General Greva. He said, therefore, that "he was glorified by hiding and oppressed by appearing". These are the Foundation Councils, colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u691	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. The floor is held by Mrs. Jufi Merope, MP SYRIZA, from the Ioannina Prefecture for seven minutes. Please begging you to be as short as possible, you'll make it easier for us, because we've reached 21:40 and we've gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u692	I'm going to need much less time, Mr. President. I will simply try to say some things as a member of the university community, although the colleagues who spoke before me and Mr Gavroglou and Mrs Vaki have tried to put things in their real dimensions. So I will only speak selectively about these regulations relating to higher education. Some few, individual indeed, are included in this bill, because it is obvious - and I said it in my speech yesterday - the great difficulty we have to legislate, precisely because there are problems outside Greece on the part of lenders and also within Greece, whenever an attempt is made to bring about legislation. In particular, all war drums are lifting up, so we can't move forward. So, under these circumstances, we have tried to make certain specific arrangements, particularly to deal with what? To deal with the immediate malfunctions resulting from the implementation or inability to implement laws on higher education, and even more characteristicly, unfortunately, of the multi-advertised Diamantopoulou Act, which was voted for by a large majority of the House. What proved, in this matter, to all those who are in the university things, that is to say? It turned out to create huge dysfunctions, because it was abolishing the sectors, departments, the essential powers of the general assemblies, which were the main institutions of democracy. There was a conflict of competence between jewelry and schools. And, of course, there were the very serious issues with the fines, so that, to inform the House, many of these institutions continued to operate informally, otherwise crucial decisions could not be made to operate the university. Efforts were made to redress the Arvanitopoulos law. It was completely impossible for the university to function with this law. It has also been shown that the functioning of the management boards was precisely ideological, neoliberal, because they did not resolve any issue, they have aggravated the decision making by the congress - and, of course, they are confessed by senators, who have nothing to do with the SYRIZA area - while they did not manage the key issues, for example, for which they were elected to collect investments, sponsorships or confront and form the extroverted action of the university and its association with society. Once again, you see that the regulation we are making is very discreet. What are we talking about? We say that when they are unable to exercise their powers, they will be subjugated by the senate. Nevertheless, there has been too much slamming about this provision, although it is obvious that the institutions' councils are insufficient to resolve the reasons why they have been set up. Nevertheless, in an indication of democracy here, the chairman of the Committee on Morphic Affairs raised a point of order. Again, it was heated, because many were even disturbed by the move to ask - with a large majority in Parliament this initiative has become - how the administrative boards see their role and collect these answers and place them. In any case, it is still an issue open to discussion, to deepen the reflection and to see this part and the necessary reforms in the field of higher education, if, indeed, there is reason to continue operating these councils. Here I would say - I would not say that it is ironic, but it is characteristic - that these days we have been made public the referral by a key minister of that Minister, Mrs. Cáchia, who came from the United States of America to give us her lights, how we really need to reform universities, which - please - are referring to acts of a malicious nature to the way she managed the opportunities she had in universities on matters of violence against students, nepotism and money laundering. These are very serious misconduct, ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, what I am saying is not about those colleagues who have advocated the law of Mrs Diamantopoulou, who have now taken a small debate between them. Maybe they're very annoying. However, I shall also refer to Article 27, which lifts the suspension of the graduation of the members of the scientific, teaching, laboratory and technical staff of specific categories of universities and of the TEI, which are completed in grades after many years. The legal framework for this procedure is clarified and the procedure for determining the cognitive subject matter of those members is established. In addition, for many years, the irresponsible issues of the process of integration of the administrative staff of the HEI into vacant or organic posts have been regulated after conversion of their posts. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this amendment, which is an honour to me too, that we are putting it at this stage, namely the change of the optional ones. Here I have to say that the creation of the selective, for those who do not know it, has been and still has been the subject of a dispute and sometimes legal involvement between the world and the schools, precisely because it was not clear and clear what the framework for who it is is to define three lucky ones is. So if, in this bishop of seven, you had it well with the dean or the president of the department, he would put three and you were elected. If you hadn't had it well, then you failed your choice. This was the republic of the seven chosen bodies. It happened in secret and unsubstantiated. The General Assembly did not participate, there was no open procedure. Where was democracy, ladies and gentlemen? What else did he do? It abolished the right of colleagues to participate in the grade of the assistant professor in the selective bodies in cases where they were equal to a position to be filled, assuming that they should have no reason even if their cognitive objects were there. So I think it is an honour for those who have signed this amendment, which is a joint request from other universities in this Chamber. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And there was an interactive debate, because this change of procedure and the development of teachers at all levels is necessary to ensure transparency and dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u693	Thank you, Mr. Merope Jufi. We come to the last of the speakers, Mrs Helen Aylonitos, to talk to the ministers and to close down slowly. Will Mr Fotakis and Mrs Anagnostopoulou speak after Mrs Aylonitos, whom please be as brief as possible in her position. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u694	Ladies and gentlemen, by closing the circle of speeches in the debate on the articles of the 'Research Arrangements and other provisions' bill, I would like to say that it is a bill, which seeks to address all the problematic situations in the functioning of the research centres and the institutional gaps that emerged from the implementation of Law No.4310/2014 and which in fact have dismantled the critical area of scientific research in Greece. I would like to focus on a few points, which I consider to be crucial. I would first like to dwell on Article 3, which provides that this law also includes services of the Ministry of Sports and Culture, which carry out scientific research. And because our New Democracy is moving our fingers that we are not honouring today's bill - because, for example, we are strengthening democratic participation and control through transparent procedures in the system of teaching teachers' development at the highest institutions in the country - I will tell you that it honors the New Democracy. Having been a researcher at the National Sports Research Centre, under the Ministry of Sports, I have lived over the days of today’s Opposition states outraged. For example, to ask researchers for regular investigators' crises and not to accept those who are present today as maniac champions of evaluations. Also, people who didn’t even have a doctorate should be placed directors of the research centre. Today Article 3 is coming to correct this anomaly. And one wonders, does anyone honor the New Democracy the continuity of the anomaly? Is the anomaly right? Does the New Democracy have any special connections with the anomaly? Moving on to this, I would like to attach particular importance to Article 14, which provides that the directors of research centres and institutes are full-time. This provision was also with L.4310/2014 and is maintained. I would point out, however, that it must also be applied. It may be a good thing the successive mobility of researchers, but it is not a good thing that we have the same man to run a state research centre at the same time and a similar private business object. This has also been done in the days of today's Opposition and the result has been disastrous. Here, Article 16 refers to the staff of research centres and institutes, and it is of particular importance, because the first thing the research centres must produce is the new researchers. Since the distinction of researchers is maintained at only three levels, instead of four previously existing, postdoctoral partners are of particular importance, which are now the introductory stage in scientific research. Postdoctoral partners are employed under a fixed-term private contract or lease of a project. They shall be paid out of resources outside the ordinary budget and shall be involved in the implementation of the research project. These are the people who are preparing to claim the position of researcher III and we must keep them in the country and not lose them abroad. The occupational insecurity of potential researchers and scientific staff from research centres, as well as of many types of work relationship, was a rule in previous years. But the bill under discussion changes what was foreseen for them by Law.4310/2014, which left them financially out. It is now foreseen that their remuneration will be at least 90% of the researcher III wages. This is a crucial change that guarantees the future of research in our country. All this, of course, needs sufficient funding to pay for it. As our country's economy has recovered since this year, there will be the resources that will give the necessary impetus to scientific research for the orientation of the Greek economy in growth based on innovation and high technology. By voting today's bill, we will have the legal framework for the production of these resources ready. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that there is no alternative. It is a one-way for us to use the tools of high technology and innovation to move forward in the reconstruction of the country, which will touch on the real needs of society, which will defend the public interest and reflect national priorities with a view to getting out of the crisis as quickly as possible. I am therefore voting in favour of today's bill, which reflects the country's progress in this direction with the important contribution of the university research community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u695	Thank you, Mrs Helen Aloitou. We will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u696	Mr President, before the Minister speaks, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u697	All right, let's give the special speakers a couple of minutes. Mr. Delis, from the Communist Party, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u698	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the government introduces and consolidates the legality of key issues by means of the amendments. We understand that there are, at times, extremely urgent cases to exercise this form of legislation as well. But in recent months, over the past few months, and in the interests of the so-called non-normality, such an abuse of this right has been taking place, to such an extent, which has become side by side with almost every bill, which we are discussing with the amendments, to have another side by side with it. We have lived through this in almost every bill so far and we have lived through it both these days with a storm of literal amendments and legislative improvements for many of which, Mr President, there cannot be any real debate since many of them are tabled after the position of special speakers and Members. Such, for example, is the amendment tabled by Mr Kourublis. For that, of course, there was a time. It is about the payroll of workers in the LAGs to cleanliness, for which we say that their payroll is mentioned in the amendment that it can also be made from other sources - it must be done exclusively from the state budget, because we do not know what will happen if these other sources are deprived of. But here today we have the tabling of an amendment, in which we think that the government has overrun all its efforts, which has literally exceeded every limit. Today an amendment to vocational education has been tabled on the amendment by legislative or legislative improvements on an issue, which we consider to be extremely serious. Vocational training is a very serious matter for the Ministry of Education and the Minister responsible, I dare say, in a piracy way, an amendment just before the vote begins, for the vote of this House. The House must be informed that the trade union Federation of Secondary Education, OLEME, has made a decision. It calls for the withdrawal of this amendment. We say that you have every right to bring it in, but to bring it in a normal way, to study it, to read it, to place it, and not like now, in this derogating, literally, way. Once matters have been opened on the structure, content of vocational education, at the same time you are talking to us, Minister, about dialogue, which will continue and about it. We ask you, Minister, to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u699	The Minister for Education, Mr. Friends, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u700	We accept that we must follow the practice of good legislation. Of course, good legislation first - first of all - concerns the substance, that is to say, whether we are dealing with the social problems, which exist or if we leave them unresolved in the name of the procedure. We are not satisfied with the tactics of the many amendments, but we are at a time when we have to deal with a establishment, which has been established for many years, which had been established in the field of education, and which has been established in the field of education, a system of strengthening private interests at the expense of public education. What is included in the technical training amendment is discussed for four months in the educational area and there is agreement in general with teachers. There is no disagreement on the general lines. The individual disagreements exist, but they are individual. The major issue is the upgrading, consolidation of technical vocational education, its emergence as a lever for the development of the country at the same time as the safeguarding of the holistic nature of vocational training. That's our philosophy. We discussed this in detail. Since yesterday this amendment has been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u701	Last night.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u702	Yes, since yesterday it has been filed and you could make your criticism. You have spoken a number of speakers today from you. You didn't talk about this. You also raised your criticisms where you wanted - no objections - on other issues. I repeat, the subject of vocational technical education has been discussed. Its main provisions have the general agreement in the field of education. The individual issues are reasonable to formulate in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u703	Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u704	Thank you, Mr President. After a two-day period of tension, several different points of view, several issues, Mr President, two minutes for so many amendments, six time-consuming ministers, two late ministerial and fifty-two total parliamentary amendments, you realise that it is not enough, despite the goodwill to discuss them. I would refer at least to some who had the opportunity to see from those who were in the short term and who had been tabled to the committee, such as Amendment Nos 365 and 2, where we could consider... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please give me some time. Even if we were to accept the need to appoint these journalists, its retroactiveness is challenging, so we cannot accept it. In Amendment No 6, while we would agree on some provisions, we do not agree on an article. I believe that Article 5 of this amendment - and I would like you to see that, Minister - on the issue of the PSC to replace the President of the PSC with a mandate from the President contradicts the rules of administrative law and calls into question the legality of future PSC decisions. Now, over the fifty-two parliamentary amendments and late-term ministers, although many of them could agree and be positive, we cannot accept this phenomenon that we are observing today. What is this phenomenon? It is the phenomenon of giving gifts to SYRIZA MPs, Minister, because measures are coming tomorrow. 5.5 billion m plus 3.6 billion the next package, 9 billion m.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u705	Don't say the wrong number.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u706	Please, this is not the case. Carry on, Mrs. Anthony.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u707	Will you let me finish? Parliamentary amendments, for example, have been tabled, as has been mentioned by many, for the process of selecting teachers. It is a parliamentary amendment. Isn't that part in national dialogue? Should we not all see it together when there was a debate in all the previous years and not with parliamentary amendments? For a year and a half, haven't you taken it, Minister, brought it by legislation? However, you also accept what I see, as PASOK does, the re-launching of Members' seats, who have been judged and have not evolved, the possibility of re-registration of students who have tabled it by three SYRIZA Members. You still haven't taken that hamburger for a year and a half and the SYRIZA MPs are bringing it over? So, in this dance, which I would call Zallogo's dance, the late amendments - gifts to your MPs, we are unfortunately not going to participate. As for customers, Minister, you probably seem from today's bill to have customers for teachers and trade unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u708	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u709	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin with a first question in relation to the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Members concerning the selective bodies and the elections of the members of the IGC. My question is not so much the content of the amendment but why it was not within the body of the legislation so that we could discuss it more widely and, secondly, because it came as a parliamentary amendment and not as a ministerial amendment, which would in any case be a big part of the draft law that has been withdrawn, so it could have come as a ministerial one. It closes this matter. On the subject that Mr Philis mentioned, on technical vocational training, I would like to say to him that we only had the amendment in our hands a few hours. We are not the ones who underestimated technical vocational education and did not comment on it, but you are the ones who did not bring it under normal procedures, and all this amendment, which concerns a very important part, a very important pillar of education, such as technical education. I do not know what the chairman of the Committee on Morphic Affairs, who is here, thinks how happy he is with such legislative practices. I will close, Minister, with your reference to Article 33(7). In your apology for this article, when I told you it was photographic that it was abolishing the five-year period between the transfer, and I asked you why you were doing so, you told me why they asked you to do so. So you answered me. So when someone asks you for something, can you put this thing in law? Good, why didn't you do that in Article 23 of this bill, which we have to deal with exactly the same thing, with the transfer of researchers from research centres to GDR? But that's where the Code is normally valid. Or maybe I'll say it differently, tomorrow I'll come to your office and I won't be alone so that it won't be photographic, I'll have ten more assistant teachers, and I'll tell you that my evolution is going to take place in a year and not in four years, which is normal. I would ask you very much to accept this. Okay? I have no obsessed with the amendment, I am obsessed with equal opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u710	Mr Constantopoulos has the floor. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u711	Mr. Loverdos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u712	Not like that. It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u713	It can't be!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u714	No, Mr. Constantopoulos is a special speaker. Everybody's talking, you'll talk too. Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u715	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you accept Amendment No 399/44, which concerns the region of delta Moschatou, Kalithea and Piraeus, which is an area to be given for regeneration in these three municipalities. Basically with the proposal by the Members of Parliament and by accepting the amendment, the Ministry of Justice will be given this area and will be used by the Ministry of Justice for its parallel actions. What do we want? We ask you to take this amendment back. You should actually come there and consult the citizens of all three municipalities, because it is essentially about the three municipalities, which have no other oxygen lung for their citizens. Of course, as I said before, there is a need for consultation with the citizens and mayors. I believe that you can either keep it or withdraw this amendment. We're asking you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u716	Good. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, would you like to take the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u717	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u718	Okay. Thank you very much. Before the Minister speaks, Mr Gavroglou will be given the floor. Immediately afterwards, we'll be closing down with the two ministers. Here, Mr. Gavroglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u719	Thank you, Mr President. I think this has been a very interesting two-day day, because despite the disagreements, many times complex thoughts have been expressed about an extremely complex problem. Indeed, these thoughts were expressed by many individuals in different parties. I think this is a very positive step. The second point is that it was clear that something that in the past days we have been afflicting our society, especially our children and parents, who are now to give examinations around the Committee of Examinations. Here, it really must not be a spit at all. We know how strict these procedures are for many governments for years now. They're not SYRIZA's own. In fact, this is something that works, bad in my opinion as a system, but it works perfectly. Let's all protect it. The third point is that it finally became clear that all this strange thing that we read in the newspapers and heard on televisions about the whole day's school, with very specific evidence, has proved to be a new and very hopeful regime. I'll come to the last one. Look, I understand the subject of the amendments. On the other hand, we have to see what the substance is and what the procedure is. Do not hide behind the process so that we do not take a position on the substance. Because these issues are well known. Some have been known for too long. I would remind you that we have only now restored a status for the election of the members of the PPC, established by Mrs Giannakou. We didn't do anything new. And I appeal to the Qualified Opposition to respect at least its own story, if anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u720	Mrs. Giannakou brought it by law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u721	I told you and I told you again: do not hold back from the process. Take a stand on the point. I accept that the process could be better, but in fact the Qualified Opposition is not here to keep the process. The Bureau is doing this work, the parties are not doing it. Nevertheless, I insist that here it seems how complex the subject of research is, how complex the issues we are going to get out of hand, because this law on research mainly, on higher education, on secondary and primary education and on other levels, what attempts to get rid of the bill are those nodes which are the result of all these years beginning to get rid of, not of getting rid of. And in that sense I think it's one thing that needs to be saluted by all the wings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u722	Thank you, Mr. Gabroglou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u723	Very briefly, I too would like to thank all the political parties on the part of the Ministry for their political leadership, because in circumstances we have had a very difficult debate and confrontation, which I believe will make us all wiser and which will be more effective in dealing with the problems of education, because riskology on the subject of education does not help anyone and much more children. Reliable public education therefore requires another climate of discussion of problems, beyond the terms of yellowism and riskyness. In the future, it will appear that we can find solutions and in a synthetic way. In relation to the amendments which I have just mentioned - I have explained that earlier - I share a point of criticism that has been heard about the procedure, but there is substance. We can't leave the schools without a program, and now the program's coming out. The programme for September is now coming out, doesn't come out in August. So the necessary legislative powers must be available, let alone when we talk about a programme for the reform of technical vocational training, which - I repeat - has been discussed with the institutions and generally finds them all in agreement. There are partial disagreements. In relation to the more specific amendments, I would like to assure Mr Mavrov once again that there is no possibility of a photographic provision, when it is open to any interested party who has these qualifications. And there are many people who are qualified and many, not one or two, who have also publicly come to the office, and they are asking for a solution to be found to get us out of an incomplete procedure, which is currently in force for every year's decision. They want to transfer, and the transfer doesn't take place out of training. It's from education to education, from room to room. Where we would actually be out of discussion and conditions we have set for the debate, it would be if the education were to go somewhere else in employment. Here from education, from primary to high-level secondary education, no one appoints them in the higher education hall. I don't want to insist any more. You have your opinion, I respect it. If a matter arises, let us discuss this issue both in the House and in the Ministry's office, if we are there too. We are open to giving solutions to large social or less social groups and not to pedipate the world. In relation to the amendment concerning the Ministry of Justice and the refreshment area you mentioned, of course the Ministry of Justice debate will also be with the stakeholders, as well as with any intervention, which I do not see is a permanent but temporary use. I am not well aware of it, of course, will be in agreement with the local bodies there, with respect for the intentions of local operators' programmes. Nothing will be done in the wilderness of the municipalities in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u724	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Anagnastopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u725	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I shall, however, begin by not counting on my time with an addition that has been requested by my colleague Mr Mavroy. In the amendment to the Procurement Committee, for the election process of the members of the IGC, a general number of 364 special number is added to paragraph 11, in case (c) of paragraph 4, as follows: ‘The Committee may request to assist the work of the constituent letter from foreign scientists with relevant cognitive objects’. Any man who is in a position of responsibility, such as this one in a ministry, and has the privilege of legislating, would like to take down a large bill, which includes many things, to include his vision, the vision of his party, his government and not to resort to fragmentary legislation. I fully agree with that. This is all going to happen in another life, which we hope will come to this country sometime, and this other life will come without being Christians, with too much struggle and war. I would like to say my personal experience in getting into a ministry, such as the Ministry of Education, with such a large scale in society - all the social classes have to do with the Ministry of Education - in such times as this. I say to my dear colleague, Mr. Delis: "Yes, it is not normality, it is not pretextful. The problems are too great". Without wanting to break this climate of consensual turn, which has been taken up by the debate, I would like to say that there have been too many problems, which had to be solved by previous governments and by the memorandum policies, austerity policies. So when someone goes and comes, what do we do? That's democracy. Social groups come to a ministry and ask, claim, and do well, and legislate is done relatively always. That's the dialectic. That is the essence and core of democracy. It's what's seen as partisanism. As in the case of ours, there is a whole provision for a category of people, which I confess to my sin that I did not know them, because the academics, the members of ICPs sometimes do not see the other categories, especially in universities such as Panteion, which is small and we do not have many of them, i.e. EDPS, ESPs, etc. There were unresolved problems with a category of people who were not hired, whose rights had never been guaranteed. This, if it's considered partisanism, then - I'm very sorry - yes, you're fragmenting it. Yes, there are issues which a Minister - and I, I admit - does not receive any news at once. Can I tell you something? Occupations have this reason for existence. It's a means of claiming. I would not have known in the departments of Agrinio what is happening if the students did not make any occupations, why cannot one have a whole conception of such a wide range of education, without infinite years in a ministry - in a few months' time it is possible to understand? - and especially when they come from irrationalism and irrationalism. Sometimes I'm impressed in this Chamber, and sometimes I'll talk very strongly and with phrases, which I never get used to in my life, because I can't understand one thing, the courage of some people. I am ashamed of some things I cannot do, about what has been done with total irrationalism and appear as rationalization and modernisation. So, "I take the brushes off and put this on a map of higher education" is called rationalization and modernisation? When you go to solve these problems, you understand. I didn't know that students, merged by their schools, should be at the same time and attend a course in Patras and another city. I didn't know. It will come down with an amendment. You are talking about the amendment on the election of the PPC members. I couldn't agree more! In another life I had a bill on my mind and paper on education. The previous Minister, Mr Baltas, had prepared it to a large extent. Inside, there were the choreographies. Why did we accept the amendment tabled by the Members? We accepted it for a reason. There has been so much discussion in the academic community, there was consensus from all the parties on this issue, which I do not think it was necessary to go to national dialogue, what Mrs Vaki explained in very nice words, and I could not explain. What education do we want in time of crisis and especially for the highest, which is not luxury, are not customers, payroll, 'pay', 'what I pay', so private university in this particular case'? We, in the midst of this crisis, were the first to be recruited. We have called for five hundred IPA members, which has not been the case for six years. I see no mention of it, and certainly none of the big channels will mention it. That's all he was missing! But they will report recruitment and scholarships and follow another five hundred post notices in this narrow-mindedness. Because when a struggle is given, a war, one looks to keep the fortresses. He doesn't look to keep what one can do in a second and third phases. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I want to say one last point, because I really don't want to waste your time. I heard so much about excellence, I really started to wonder where I came from. Out of these universities, didn't I? No one sucked my mind to be excellent. Nevertheless, I did a doctorate in Paris at a large university - one of the instigators of this period, Mr. Zouraris - with great teachers. We don't have a problem with foreign teachers. I'm barely there. And you know, when I hear you address people like Mr. Gavroglou, Mrs. Vakis, Mr. Sevastakis, Mrs. Fotios, Mr. Tsukalas on the other hand, Mr. Dousinas, I say to whom are they addressing? We don't know from universities, from foreign professors? But here, there is a crucial point and I will say it. The Greek bourgeoisie - with or without introductorys - has always had a Greek-sponsored attitude to its own spiritual leadership. He always considered that someone who is from a foreign university - let him be one of America's "Choptinica" - is better than one of our own scientists. I never understood that. The whole of the Greek history is found out by this treatment. There goes excellence, xenophobia, innovation and that! In passing, in Patras and respecting the Prime Minister's announcements, we made Patras IQ under the auspices of the Ministry of Education, all university institutions with the Achaea Chamber for the diffusion of research. That is how we understand it. Research must be diffused on the market but for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u726	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u727	I'm finishing up my thoughts, saying one thing. Excellence, innovation and market. A typical feature of the status quo in Greece historically is that it answers questions from a previous period posed by Europeans, the 'westers' - with introductorys, an analysis - in general. Now the Council of Europe itself has come and said 'forgot what you knew about education'. It's a matter of democracy and how we make citizens. Leave entrepreneurials, recompense and democracy and citizens, because we have the extremism of the extreme right, we have an upsurge in xenophobia, we have austerity! All of these are samples and because in a few days' time we have the anniversary of the end of World War II, let us not forget them. Let us respond to the question that is currently being raised by our day. That is what we want to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u728	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Minister. I would ask you, Minister, to present yourself to the Minutes and to share with colleagues - so that you all have the text - and the last correction you have made in reply to Mr Mavrotas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u729	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u730	Mr. Konstantinos Fotakis has the floor for the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u731	Unfortunately, Mr. Dendias has gone because I would like to thank him for the admonition and to respond with the poet's lyrics: 'Don't let us break down for a moment'. That's Anguillas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u732	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u733	I would like very briefly to address a number of issues raised during this two-day period, beginning - very little will be and very briefly - from the point of view of excellence which has been mentioned many times. They told us. You are enemies of excellence. We're constantly told. So let me conclude that we are followers of modesty and minor effort. I'd like them to tell us right here, because I said it in my prototype here that for us excellence is not a word that we mixed it up from here and from there, we put it in various articles of a bill, more or less in that way degrading it. For us excellence is linked to a dynamic process, to the pursuit of quality. Some have said it: It is the way to Ithaca and not to Ithaca itself. It is the 'holy aristocratic'. It's a constant process, because when it stops to be excellence. Of course, many of the people who are invoking and cutting in favour of excellence, which they imply, are that excellence is a concept that has to do with attempting to take the lead, that it is something that is linked to punishment. It is something that I fear many times, beyond arrogance, also hides scientific insecurity. I'm telling you this, knowing very well what's going on in the academic and research system. Contrary to us excellence has a different character, neither arrogant nor anything like that. It has a character linked to the effort to highlight the strong points of people and structures and to alleviate weaknesses. That's for us, excellence. So we understand it and will have to stop once and for all this constant invocation of excellence "missing from our space", that "we are followers of modesty" and anything else. Of course, I would like to say here that many of those who are in favour of excellence are right on their feet. That is what I would like to say with regard to excellence. A second element is about entrepreneurship. We have heard that "you are against innovative entrepreneurship after you have removed this phrase from certain articles". But now where do you say that? If we left the word in the articles, we'd be okay! We would be in favour of entrepreneurship! We'd be her fans! Come on! The theme of innovative entrepreneurship, research wealth creation is very complex. I don't have time now to get into more detail. After all, during the discussions in committee, I referred to some of them. What I would like to say, however, is another thing: the attempt to use the research product, the attempt to link research to entrepreneurship, as was done in L.4310, was in a way of fragmentary and mechanistic, in a way that was intended, to turn the researcher into an entrepreneur and knowledge into a merchandise. What I can assure you - and I have great experience in this matter - is that in this case you are doing bad entrepreneurs and bad goods. Of course, we do not have any of the relevant ideas. There are other things I want to talk about. The question of research funds has been raised. We have heard about 3% in Europe while in Greece it is 0.7%. Over the past few years, the denominator has been growing, so that's increasing. What I wanted to say to you, is that when you hear 2% and 3% in different countries, 2/3 of these 2% and 3% come from the private sector. Unfortunately, this is not the case, unfortunately, in our country. So let us not forget that and it is easy to say about the public. However, the state, the government, does its debt. This year in conditions of deep crisis, the budget of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology increased to around 30%. This means that, as far as research is concerned, research into the priorities of this government is concerned. But that's not all. Because I have heard again about sub-financing issues and all that, we do not do a simple management of the problems that come and are a lot of them. We're doing something else. We're taking initiatives. What has been completely forgotten, we will have the opportunity to say this again, because there is a second law on the creation of the fund that I mentioned in my prototype, which will be dedicated exclusively to supporting research and innovation, which is being done at the Greek universities and the Greek research centres. As we have scheduled for the second half of 2016 since July, what we are looking forward to is for 240 million to be set aside for the next three years, namely support for research programmes always with the quality criteria to go ahead, positions of researchers, scholarships, infrastructure. This is not the case with the leverage of the few resources available, with the leverage of resources from the Public Investment Programme and at the same time, of resources from the European Investment Bank on very interesting terms. So this should not be forgotten, because I believe that it will help to increase the percentage of what many people call, without any deeper knowledge of what is going on. There are the new scientists. Young scientists to stay in the country do not only need to have a job. They also need attractive environments to accomplish their work. That's what's going on. For each researcher this is the dominant and such attractive environments we want to build. I will close, since the time is last year, telling you more or less the vision we have at the Ministry of Research. It is a vision that can be described in very few words: creating opportunities that can be implemented at the same time as quality chambers. We want to bring talent together, different talents, without various ideas. We want to bring people who are very good at abstract mathematics without necessarily any direct usefulness, good at computers, good at the lab - I say things that are closer to my specialty - and with some who have business talents. These talents we want to show. We want to build the environment to show up these talents, and we believe that the whole system will then take off. So I will close again with lyrics of another poet, who is also a friend: "You keep an eye on the dream and you take it off." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u734	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you now that the vote begins to be focused, because we have to vote on many articles and many amendments. The debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Research and other provisions' is adjourned and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u735	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u739	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u740	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u741	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u742	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u745	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u746	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u747	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u748	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u749	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u751	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u752	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u753	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u754	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u755	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u756	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u757	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u758	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u760	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u761	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u762	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u763	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u764	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u765	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u766	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u767	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u768	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u769	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u770	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u771	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u772	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u773	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u774	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u775	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u776	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u777	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u778	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u779	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u780	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u781	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u782	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u783	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u784	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u785	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u786	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u787	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u788	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u789	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u790	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u791	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u792	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u793	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u794	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u795	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u796	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u797	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u798	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u799	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u800	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u803	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u804	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u805	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u806	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u807	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u808	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u809	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u810	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u811	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u812	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u813	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u814	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u815	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u816	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u817	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u818	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u819	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u820	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u821	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u822	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u825	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u826	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u827	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u828	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u829	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u832	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u834	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u836	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u837	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u838	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u839	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u840	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u843	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u844	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u845	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u846	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u848	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u849	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u850	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u851	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u853	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u854	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u855	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u857	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u858	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u859	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u860	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u861	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u862	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u863	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u864	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u865	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u866	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u867	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u868	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u869	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u870	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u871	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u872	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u873	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u874	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u875	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u876	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u877	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u878	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u879	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u880	Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u881	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u882	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u883	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u884	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u885	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u886	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u887	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u888	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u889	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u890	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u891	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u892	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u893	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u894	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u895	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u896	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u897	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u898	Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u899	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u900	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u901	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u902	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u904	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u905	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u908	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 33 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u909	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u910	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u913	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u914	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u915	Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u916	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u918	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u919	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u921	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u923	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u924	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u925	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u926	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u927	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u928	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u930	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u931	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u932	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u933	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u935	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u936	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u937	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u939	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u942	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u943	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u945	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u947	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u950	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u952	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u953	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u954	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u957	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u959	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u960	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u961	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u962	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u963	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u964	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u965	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u966	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u967	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u968	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u969	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u970	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u971	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u972	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u973	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 355 and a special number 2 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u974	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u975	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u976	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u977	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u978	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u979	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u980	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 355 and a special 2 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 356 and a special number of 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u981	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u982	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u983	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u984	So the amendment under general number 356 and a special 3 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 357 and a special number 4 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u985	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u986	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u987	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u988	So the amendment under general number 357 and a special 4 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number of 358 and a special number of five?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u989	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u990	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u991	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u992	Therefore, the amendment under general number 358 and special 5 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 359 and a special number 6 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u993	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u994	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u995	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u996	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u997	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u998	Therefore, the amendment under general number 359 and special 6 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under general number 392 and a special number 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u999	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1000	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1001	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1002	So the amendment under general number 392 and a special 38 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number of 400 and 45, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1003	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1008	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 400 and a special 45 has been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 401 and a special number 46, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1009	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1010	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1012	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1015	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 401 and a special 46 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 362 and a special number of 9 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1016	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1017	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1020	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 362 and a special 9 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 363 and a special number 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1022	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1025	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1027	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 363 and a special 10 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 364 and a special number 11, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1028	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1029	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1032	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1033	The amendment under general number 364 and special 11 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 367 and a special number 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1034	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1038	Therefore, the amendment under general number 367 and a special 14 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 26 of the draft law. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 378 and a special number 25?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1039	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1040	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1042	So the amendment under general number 378 and a special 25 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 387 and a special number 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1043	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1044	Therefore, the amendment under general number 387 and a special 34 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree to the amendment by a general number of 388 and a special number of 35, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1045	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1046	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1047	The amendment under general number 388 and a special 35 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 391 and a special number 37 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1048	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1050	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1051	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 391 and a special 37 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 393 and a special number 39, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1052	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1053	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1054	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1055	The amendment under general number 393 and a special number 39 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of Article 33 of the bill. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general figure of 395 and a special figure of 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1056	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1058	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 395 and a special 41 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 396 and a specific number of 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1059	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1060	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1061	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1062	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1063	Therefore, the amendment under general number 396 and a special 42 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 397 and a special number 43 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1064	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1065	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1066	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1067	So the amendment under general number 397 and a special 43 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general figure of 399 and a special figure of 44?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1068	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1069	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1070	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1071	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1072	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1073	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1074	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 399 and a special 44 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 404 and a special number 47 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1075	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1076	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1077	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1078	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 404 and a special 47 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 409 and a special number 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1079	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1080	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1081	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1082	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 409 and a special 49 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 410 and a special number 50 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1083	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1084	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1085	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1086	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1087	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1088	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 410 and a specialist of 50 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 417 and a special number of 52 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1089	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1090	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1091	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1092	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1093	The amendment, by a general figure of 417 and a special 52, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 24 of the bill. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1094	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1095	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1096	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1097	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1098	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1099	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Research and other provisions' was therefore accepted in principle and under the articles. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1100	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1101	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1102	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1104	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1106	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1107	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Research and other provisions' was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1108	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1109	Therefore, the House granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-06-S1-commons.u1110	With the consent of the House at 23.21' the meeting for tomorrow, Saturday, 7 May 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work, is to discuss the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity: "The Single Social Security System, Reformation of Insurance - Pension System - Income tax and Gambling Regulations and other provisions".
