ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, before we begin, I can have the floor because the Minister for Finance has not come...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u3	The Minister is in Brussels and has agreed that these questions will not be deleted but will be transferred. Mr. Chakalotos knows that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u4	My question has been tabled on 11 January. Every week we testify to it and it has not come so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u6	Last week, as you quite rightly said - and had said so from the Step and someone else carrying out the president's debts - Mr Chakalotos has said before: "We will gather all the questions to find a date to come". The day Mr Chakalotos found is Monday, which he knew would be in Brussels.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u7	Apparently he didn't find it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u8	I don't know, and you're doing well to justify him. But here, there is one issue. If a Minister has not been in the Chamber for three months to answer, there is a problem, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u9	Well, I don't think you'd think he didn't want to answer that specifically to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u10	I don't want to tell you anything. It is not the day today, it is not the time, but I tell you that for three months, twelve times - seven of which were in Greece and we knew it - he did not come to answer. Now, if he wants or he doesn't want me to, if he likes me or he doesn't like me, that's not the point. It's not the problem if he likes me or if he doesn't want me. The point is that it is his obligation to come and answer a question. In any case, you, who are presiding now and you are also a SYRIZA official, tell the Prime Minister to change that competence, to give it to Mr Alexiadis who comes every day. Let another Minister give responsibility if he cannot and does not like the House and parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u11	I don't think that's true. I don't know, but I guess. However, today it is unsatisfactory that it is in Brussels.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u12	But I'm telling you that on Friday he told us he'd find a date to bring all the questions together and the date he found is Monday, which he knew would be at the summit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u13	It was disgusting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u14	What are you going to do, too, but Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u15	However, they will not be deleted from the prospectus. They'll be on the first date...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u16	Next time you won't be and it'll be someone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u17	We will, however, regulate it. That's what the Secretariat hears.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u18	I would ask you, too, to convey to the Government and the President of Parliament that this situation cannot continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u19	Mr Constantinople, we have also discussed this in the Conference of Presidents. We have dealt with this issue, be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u20	I'll keep the video.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u21	And today you will see that the questions, which are not answered, are all because of absence in Brussels, apart from one or two, which we will be especially sorry to hear from the ministers who have contacted us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u22	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u23	You have the floor, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u24	Madam President, the Minister's office, which would answer my question, Mr Juliarakis, has informed - to Mr Tsakalotos is the question, but it seems that responsibility has been transferred - and at an appropriate time and with great courtesy, I would stress this. It's very positive. Our question will be placed at another time on the agenda of parliamentary scrutiny. This week, next week, we'll see. I've re-subscribed it, though. However, with the opportunity to speak for one or two minutes, I would like to raise two issues, Madam President. The first is not related to my timely question, but it is more general. It starts a week and the only job we seem to have as a plenary is ratification of a memorandum of cooperation with Jordan and we will go to the committee responsible with Mr Constantinople. There is no other parliamentary interest in this week, while the country is stirring up by thousands of problems. As far as I am concerned, neither will the timely questions be asked, due to the absence of the Ministers, of the reluctance of the Ministers? That's not a government. The country was rightly marked by a journalist yesterday - it has a 'Boratt government'. We have a government of ministers who do not carry out their duties towards the legislature. Madam President, other ministers, other governments, were parliamentaryly reluctant. Do you know what happened here when they didn't come? There was an earthquake. This isn't the first time. But it's the first time in terms of frequency. They never come. One or two of the ten to twelve questions are discussed. The exception is Mr Alexiadis. I understand what you said Thursday, that questions should be raised to a ministry so that you don't come every day. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u25	I can't do that either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u26	I understand that. That's right, but it's only about you. You're one of the few. That is why I see you in the list of speeches in this House, even though you are a non-parliamentary, you are the first to plead. Obviously from the frequency with which you come here to respond to parliamentary scrutiny. As far as my question is concerned, you will understand that, Madam President. When the PSI took place, there was also a bond haircut for the microcomputers and certain natural persons or corporations that had public debts due to them and that were converted into bonds, even with a haircut for the claims of natural persons or companies. When the haircut was made of their own bonds - for reasons that are not here, we will see them with Mr Juliarakis - we promised that all the then ministers, then Members, should not forget the matter. I, and then as Minister and then firmly as Member of Parliament, bring this issue, not just by asking, but by proposing, at every part-session of the House. I have said, Madam President, that the contribution of solidarity to these people, in these cases, must be treated by balancing, compensating for the entire amount or part of it. And it is an outstanding thing that SYRIZA's party - which at that time had revolted on this issue - has to see and has not seen yet. We therefore want to reach agreement at the National Representation on a very serious issue that has destroyed people, to which we must firstly not forget them, and secondly, to do all we can to balance their losses, in a way or in a wholehearted way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Loverdo, I've seen the list of bills. It is too much they expect, but it is at the Court of Auditors, but at the CEN.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u28	And for that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u29	There is no question that the ministers do nothing and so they do not come to the House. I can assure you that Parliament will have a great deal of movement in the coming days. Now on this particular issue you are saying, obviously everyone asks questions and is of some importance. I will not now judge whether a question is more or less important. It is therefore true that they must be answered in good time and in good time. I shall now mention what questions will not be answered for formal reasons. Besides, it's a big list, make a little patience. The first under number 606/1-32016, the first question of the first cycle of MP Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Grassikos, to the Minister of Health, on the need for a direct staffing of the radiodiagnostic clinic of the Hospital of Xanthi, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The second, with number 593/29-2-2016, is a timely question for the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the additional works of the Bramian Hierapetra Dam, is not discussed due to a workload of the Minister. The third, with number 610/1-32016, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Pafili to the Ministers for Environment and Energy and Finance, on the privatisation plans of the company "LARCO" and the safeguarding of the jobs of its employees, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Tsakalotos in Brussels. The second under number 597/29-2-2016 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, concerning bonds of natural persons, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Juliarakis in Brussels. The third, with number 611/1-32016, a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the working conditions of professional drivers on land transport and the acute problems in the sector, is not discussed due to the obstruction of Mr Katrugalos. The fourth under number 577/23-2-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gerasimios Balaoura to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the delay in tabling a bill on regulating the residence permit and work of illegally staying migrant workers of the land, is not discussed due to the absence of Mr Mousala in Brussels. The fifth under number 575/23-2-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Finance, concerning the repayment of loans granted to ND and PASOK parties, is not being discussed. The sixth question under number 566/22-2-2016 of the second-cycle MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Prussias State to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the emergence of the "Samothraki Victory" as a pan-European symbol, is also not discussed. Mr Baltas apologies for the fact that the last minute he failed to come and so he didn't inform Mr. Prussakis in time. The seventh question under number 567/22-2-2016 is a topical question from the Parliamentary Achaias of New Democracy Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the imposition of municipal fees by the Municipality of Patras on professional establishments in the area by decision of the City Council. The eighth Question No 466/1-2-2016 topical question of the Attica MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kassidiari to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "millions shared by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to the bankrupt parties", is not discussed due to the unsettled obligations of Mr. Kourublis. The ninth under number 548/16-2-2016 topical question by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgios Germenis to the Minister of Finance, on the "sale of Asteras Vouliagos from the TIADED", is not discussed, as Mr. Tsakalotos is well known in Brussels. The tenth under No. 408/18-1-2016 topical question from the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the progress of the projects to make use of the former airport of Greece, is not discussed, due to the lack of Mr. Tsakalotos in Brussels. Eleventh question under number 429/19-1-2016 of the Athens Chamber of Deputies, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the resolution of the problem of the "ASPIS" Group and the determination of the time schedule for the payment of the allowances to the beneficiaries, is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Finance in Brussels. The first question under number 745/38/2-11-2015 - application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for Athens of the New Democracy Mr Nikita Kaklamani to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr Kim Glen as Prime Minister, is not discussed. The second question by number 1944-15-12-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the reduction of charges on the use of plastic money and transactions via e-banking, is not discussed due to the absence of Mr. Tsakalotos. The third question with number 1730/8-12-2015 question by Congressman II of Athens, Mr. George Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, on the procurement of banks for interbank transfers and card use is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Finance in Brussels. So there are three questions left to answer. They're all there. We enter the first with number 607/1-32016 topical question of the Second Cycle of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukokorous to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the National Accreditation System (ESDP). The current question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Theodora Jack. Mr. Bukokouros has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u30	Minister, the real risk of the international accreditation of the single accreditation system is forcing me to table today's question. Such a development will bring domino developments, thus losing the possibility of accreditation by state and private bodies, laboratories, but also creating major problems in industrial production of the country and certification of products that have been produced for a long time until the situation is normalised again. If that happens, the Greek laboratories, private and state, will be forced to demand the certifications from equal foreign operators at a huge cost. You know, Minister, that since 2013 there has been a memorial obligation for the country to merge the similar entities. Both the ECHR, ELOT and the National Institute of Meteorology were merged in this non-satisfactory context. From there on, a number of problems began to arise, which the governments, not only yours but the previous one, have not been able to resolve, so that we are today at the risk of the loss of international recognition with great consequences for the work of the laboratories, but also for the economy itself. The ECHR, the National Accreditation System, has always been a body that was not harming the state. He was financially self-sufficient. By the merger, the whole operation takes place at the expense of the RIS, which also has a dominant role in the certification of the laboratories. After the merger of the like operators, the administration of the three agencies should be distinguished again, because in addition, there is the problem of auditor and audited by this merger. In addition, few employees of the ESRB are now invited to check and provide certifications, accreditations, in a number of workshops. About five hundred are the workshops that operate in our country today. Three employees handle all files. On average, an employee has more than a hundred files. The problem has increased over the last year, and unfortunately also by transferring the agony of the people of the laboratories in the country, I must say, Minister, that nothing has been done, and there are solutions that are possible without any burden. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] More I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u31	Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u32	Mr Boukokore, as you said, was set up in 2002 by law, in the form of S.A., the National Accreditation System, as it is said, precisely for the purpose of implementing, implementing and managing the National Accreditation System and since then it has been a member of all the multilateral agreements of European cooperation on accreditation. For the economy of speech, then I'll mention it as an RU. It is the international one - let me say it in that sense - European etymology of this very important institution, which has to do with the answer I want to give you, because it is very actively involved. As you quite rightly said, 2013 with v. 4109 and Article 6 set up a legal person under the name "National System of Quality Infrastructures", an ESS now, in which they have been co-ordinated, but in the same time maintaining their administrative autonomy, economic, accounting, management, two public limited companies and one private legal person, who are at the end of the year, I would say the country's quality infrastructure. In other words, the National Accreditation Company, as well as the National Standardization Organisation and the National Institute of Meteorology, was the case. You quite rightly said, Mr Colleague, that this was the country's Memorandum of Obligation, in 2013, in the context of the budgetary adjustment at the time. This unification, however, has been made in an institution - and in my view it is right - to show the quality in both the public and the wider public sector, as well as in the industry, as you quite rightly said, as well as in all types of companies, because it is precisely this instrument of horizontal action, which can improve the entrepreneurship, the competitiveness of the services and products provided and, of course, strengthen our national economy by maintaining and why not, by creating new jobs. With regard to the individual cases mentioned in your question, I would like to say to you: first of all, that the European institution, which is also responsible for the evaluation process, made some initial remarks on the new legal framework only in October 2014. He responded to this temporary ERCD back then - I am of course always talking about the legal framework of the ERC - in December 2014 and the evaluation process started in May 2015 with the new administration, which was only two months ago. I would like to say first of all that there is no framework for non-compliance with the primary observations made by the rating agencies. The evaluation visit was first carried out in September 2015. At the moment, there is a referral back to the three-member committee, as predicted, Mr Colleague, and that is the question, namely the completion of the evaluation process, will be completed next April, that is to say, in about two months from now, when the committee of the ESA will give its final opinion. I mean that this evaluation process, Mr Colleague, has not taken place for the first time, it is a process that is done every four years, precisely so that the ERCF itself can - to say so myself - become accredited as an appropriate body, so that it can then make accreditations. There is therefore no cause for concern, despite the fact that the final verdict of the CSR is still pending, as I said, for the loss of both the European and thus the international recognition of the CSR as a body, which in this case is the National Accreditation Body right now in our country. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] In my dentistry, I'm going to give you more details.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Bukkoro, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u34	Minister, regardless of whether there is a framework of non-compliance, we, the Greek Government and the supervised bodies have the impression that they should be better prepared to do their work and their role. Regardless of the European and, by extension, the international controls that exist through transnational and international conventions, there is a voice of anxiety here by the laboratories that the National Accreditation System, which has now gone to the umbrella of the National Certification Council, fails after the merger. I understand - and you are aware of it very clearly in your speech - the Memorandum of Merger obligations of similar entities for economies of scale, for public savings, for households, for better operation, for more quality services, as you have said. Yes, I agree, it is not just the economies of scale in the merger of some similar bodies. It is not to abandon the object and do not create malfunctions. And here it seems that the direct partners, the 'clients', if you like, of the National Certification Council now have terrible complaints. They're not serviceable. They want certifications for new activities and they don't receive them. And they rightly complain and say that accreditation fees paid by laboratories are not tax. They pay them to receive good services, which they have been receiving for a year and more, if you like, so that we do not go to political or party conclusions. I would like you to tell us today, Minister, whether you are thinking about taking some initiatives, beyond the framework of the international assessment of the ESS and the results that this will bring, some staff adjustment, some support for the RIS, which has the greatest object, so that public and private laboratories do not expect for too long and do not go through procedures that do not comply with the international obligations of the country. Laboratories could pay the remarkable auditors of the ESRB directly and not through the agency, with great delays, which is deterring the participation of important and worthwhile auditors in laboratory control, thus abstaining. It is therefore a problem of subsistence, it is a problem, if you like, some bureaucratic arrangements and some ministerial decisions are needed, which will make the whole system more flexible, modernise it, so that it is more productive. I think we can agree on that. We need initiatives on your part.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u35	Mrs. Jackie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u36	Mr Colleague, it is true that, in the course of 2015, the new administration faced exactly all these loose ends that initially involved the integration of three agencies into one. You know very well that there were economic loose ends, there were administrative loose ends and there were decisions that had to be made. Also, there were even wage cuts, i.e. payroll issues in terms of staff, whether by civil servants or independent evaluators, who are occasionally recruited to carry out this task of accreditation further. But, first of all, I should like to say that all these issues, starting in 2016, have been settled. This is why the ESS is now fully operational as a whole and has even begun to record an increase in revenue and that is undeniable. From there on, very important work has been done which should have been done in order to improve its functioning, Mr President, as you have rightly pointed out. What's happened so far? First of all, a survey was commissioned on the ESS evaluators to find their origin, that is, if they are civil servants, if they come from the public sector, to examine the legality of their participation in certification, because, as you quite rightly said, they coincide with the status of the auditor. From there on, a survey was carried out on the economic performance of services in certain foreign projects, and this survey also produced concrete results. A regulation is being promoted, however, because the evaluation has not yet been completed. And not just that. The evaluation, as I said earlier in my prototype, is an open process, which has not yet been completed and is therefore pending. From there on, I should like to say that there have also been new applications for operators, precisely in the context of the enlargement of the object that you, too, wish to see. First of all, having a National Accreditation Body is an obligation of the country, as you can see. That, if we want to abolish it, we cannot. However, I realised by listening to you talking, because the real danger of losing recognition or recognition of European or international, Mr Bukkoro, does not exist, the reason why you tabled this question to me. So I understood from your words that it is - let me say it - your desire, the necessity, which arises from the number of checks, because it is true that at the moment the ECHR is carrying out audits in five hundred accredited laboratories and eighty-five certification bodies, that there is a need for promotion - to say it in this sense - private assessors from the wider public sector. This will happen firstly because there is no possibility of recruiting civil servants, as you can see, but also because in any case the last year has received sixteen new applications from certification and control bodies and thirty-four new applications from laboratories, with even a growing trend. What are the activities now proposed for accreditation? They're the shapes of person certification. It's the certification of hotels and rooms for rent. It is the certification of good manufacture of cosmetic products, the accreditation of medical laboratories in almost all competitive examinations. This is, as you can see, a number of other responsibilities. So, in order to close my brief introduction, on the one hand, there is no risk that any accreditation will be lost either European or international - in this sense - and, furthermore, it is precisely in the context of the RIS - to say this in this sense - its activity and its subject matter, its subject matter of accreditation, might extend its cooperation with private evaluators so that it can respond to this work, which - I say again - is a national obligation in this case and is the only body that can do so. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too, Mr Bukkoro and the Minister. The fourth question under number 605/1-32016 will be discussed in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Vassilis Kokkalis, with regard to the recovery of the HICP by the insolvency officer regarding the properties of his management. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Tree Alexiadis. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like your own attention because you are legal. First of all, we congratulate Mr Alexiadis, who is one of the few, who is stable in all the topical questions, despite his workload. Pursuant to Article 2 of Law 4223/2013 it was defined as the subject for payment of the Single Property Tax (ENPI) that of the bankruptcy in respect of any assets that are legally managed and supervised. Thus, the party - a property which is rendered by a judicial decision - becomes a debtor and, on the one hand, is at risk by means of compulsory measures, such as aggregation of accounts, not to obtain tax information, but also by means of criminal proceedings. As you well understand, this is at least a provision that is at least inappropriate and, in my view, comes into direct conflict with provisions of the law and with the Constitution itself. It is an illegal and unjust provision because it is called upon to pay for something which, on the one hand, does not belong to him and on the other hand is in the exercise of his duties. This will result in too many trade unions resigning from their position, a position which no one seeks because - I repeat - they are appointed by a court decision and, on the other hand, in the future to reject and any appointment of a lawyer. In view of all this, Minister, I repeat that it is an unjust and illegal provision because they are called upon to pay for property, which does not belong to them. So are there any thoughts in the planning of the Ministry for the abolition, otherwise, of this provision? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Papoutsis, you are putting me in a difficult position for two reasons: One reason is that I have to come to answer questions and defend a law like HISPIA, which is not a model of tax justice and has raised a great deal of criticism. I think that in 2016 we need to return to a page and go to another tax that replaces it and of course has the same collection - the 2.65 billion - but will share tax burdens more fairly and proportionately, and of course, it will not have the mistakes and excesses that the previous legislation had. You are right to ask your question about bankruptcy lawyers. I'm an economist. I'm not a lawyer. I'll try to explain it as simple as possible. Here we have the following strange things: HNPH is imposed on the property's property rights, its possessions, its possessions, its landlordship, the house and the surface on the property. This is provided for in Article 1(2) of Law 4223/2013. Whilst the property right is imposed, we come and make the bankruptcy agent subject, who has no property right. And we know very well that, when an undertaking reaches this situation, it cannot exploit any of its real estate, sell it, exploit it or anything else, because it is certainly the public sector, banks, suppliers and a number of others that this company owed. And the strange thing about this provision is that I have been researching - because I have unfortunately been following the tax issues for many years - I have seen that the Scientific Council of Parliament, when the 'Single Property Tax and other provisions' was adopted, clearly on page 5, states: 'In paragraph 2, it is stated that the person subject of the tax is also the person responsible for bankruptcy. As the trader has neither acquired any rights to the property of the poor, the arrangement should be amended.’ Unfortunately, the Scientific Council of Parliament was not heard at that time and things did not work as they should. But now the General Secretariat of Public Revenue in a document, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, clearly mentions the problems in this regard. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] ‘The problems arising from the application of this provision shall be known and shall be handled in order to promote such legislation.’; We will do everything possible to prevent bankruptcy, prevent their personal property from being compromised and money being committed. Immediately, with the new law we will bring about this, we will resolve this problem, which concerns the citizens and is an injustice, as you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Red, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I'm very happy for the answer. In addition, I would like to say that this provision risks bankruptcy and distribution pattern in general. According to the Code of Civil Procedure and the Commercial Law, the State in the event of the distribution of bankruptcy is privileged. The State will therefore collect the ENVY. Why should a party be appointed by decision of a court? All bankruptcy law will be blown up. I repeat that no lawyer wishes to be a lawyer, but appointed by a court decision, i.e. it fulfils a duty. To this man, who will distribute and manage bankruptcy in order to satisfy the public, workers and more generally to satisfy claims, will we seize the bank account to him, or will this man not receive tax information, and is it likely to be subject to criminal prosecution? I am pleased, Minister, for the answer. This is an injustice. It's not just a high tax. They are not complaining here that there is a high tax. We are talking about an unjust and illegal provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to add a few more words. You are absolutely right, Mr Papoutsis. Here we have a problem with the application of the law, because, as is clear, with Mr von Wogau. 3588/2007 and Article 17 the debtor from the declaration of bankruptcy is automatically deprived of his administration, management and disposal of assets - bankruptcy expropriation - which is carried out only by the party. So here we have an asset. He, who is, in theory, unable to exercise command - the property right, can do nothing about this asset and the person who undertakes to settle bankruptcy, we come and charge him. We don't want to do that like a Treasury. We want to solve problems and not create problems. Immediately, by legislative procedure, we will resolve this matter, which you have rightly pointed out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much both Mr. Kokalis and Mr. Alexiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of Ministers’, as applicable: 1. On 3-3-2016, criminal proceedings concerning the Deputy Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, to which the Minister attached a letter to the President of Parliament 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. On 3-3-2016, criminal court proceedings concerning (a) the former Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Charalambos Athanasios and (b) the former Deputy Prime Minister and former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Evangelos Venizelos. We will now discuss the fifth under No 596/29-2-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Attica Union of Centres Mr. Dimitrios Kavalla to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the lack of measures to protect the waters against nitrates. Please, Mr Cavadela, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Greece is a neglected country. Environmental protection is a key factor not only for growth, but also for survival. I am sorry to hear from the press that our country is being referred to the European Court of Justice for negligence in protecting water resources from nitrates, namely environmental burdens, due to uncontrolled discharges of waste water, mainly from the misuse of fertilisers. The Community directive has been in force since 1991, but all the governments and your own governments have in some way been indifferent to giving a solution to this issue. No programmes to combat this type of pollution have been introduced. In addition, there are two more serious environmental issues that need answers. It is the issue of toxic waste water in Triasios and Mesogeia, and the fact that landfills should have been kept, which had been closed since 2009 and which, for this violation in such difficult economic circumstances, for our place, the Greek people pay a fine of EUR 20 million annually. Is the Minister asking: What measures do you intend to take to address the acute problem of nitrate pollution, which mainly affects the rural areas of our country? Secondly, what measures do you intend to take to ensure the protection of Attica's aquatic horizons from toxic waste water and how wise, in the current economic circumstances, to pay every year these 20 million euros and other fines imposed on us at times instead of healing the issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Chironi, you have the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Madam President. This policy of equal distances is a little paradoxical. The case with nitrates - I start with that, because they are three different questions - starts in October 2010. At that time, the Commission first mocked Greece and started with the condemnation, which finally came, because there was nothing really going on in Greece in the case of nitrate pollution. In contrast to what you say, we started in March 2015, while we were only two months of government, an open dialogue on the Code of Good Agricultural Practice, which we finally ratified in August 2015. From that point on, it followed in November 2015, although elections were held, the change in the Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Rural Development. I say that, first of all, so that we don't think we're all the same. From there on, to go to the next topic - I answer too much populace, because it is obvious that nitrates are not enough to make the code, but you must also do the action programmes - we have found only seven action programmes for over thirty regions throughout Greece, which are terribly burdened. And, of course, they do not come out of these programmes, because these also impose irrigation and lubricating practices entirely differently, but they are programmes which, I repeat, require studies and these studies do not come out of one moment to another. We only found seven studies when we received our ministries. From there on, for pollution - not toxic, to clarify, but urban liquids, because this is what you are referring to - in Attica I have to say to you: In the trinity you know very well that the work has been completed and the fine comes in because our unfaithful fellow citizens have not been connected there, in the absence of money. They cannot pay the connection fees, and at the moment they are struggling, so that the project does not remain untapped. And in the history of Eastern Attica there was a parafiscality that these waste water will end in Psythalia, and we are the first government to cut it off from the first moment, that they will not go to Psythalia, but will be placed in the eastern Attica and the world calmed down because they were telling him more. Finally, for HSDs, you should know that we received two hundred forty-three, for which it came a fine in December 2014, so it was not a fine that came from indifference from our own government - and we managed them with a terrifying race to close in just a semester. We've dropped to eighty-two, which means we've shut down a hundred HR. From that point on, let's not forget that in these hundred and eighty-two, who are closed, there are the over eighty HADs of the Peloponnese, where with the accreditation work they have gone to the region, namely Mr. Tatoulis, and now Mr. Tatoulis called it in November, saying that they are almost half the HADs in Greece that are currently in fine. So that's where the accounting officers are, and not the Greek Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Cavalella, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much to the Minister for the information. I stressed that the story has been going since 1991, and in any case your responsibilities have been very little because of the limited time you have been in the government. However, this is a very serious matter. You yourself said that some studies should be carried out, that a procedure should be followed. Generally, because we all know from the state machine, these issues, when they are assigned to the state initiative, are a little slow. I am asking a hypothetical question: 'Cause we may not be ready again, there may be a problem again, and there may be a fine again, could it be awarded to the private sector - for example, like the CTEO - to make a tender? Is this more of an interest than to instruct the central government to make decisions? Do we have a quicker and more immediate solution to the problem if the issue is distributed to many scholars? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Chironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Madam President. I think this is not a question of whether we are going to have a shortage of public administration staff and we have to entrust it to private individuals. In any case, the studies I referred to are studies conducted by private students. They are assigned, so the issue is not there. But there are dozens of issues here, at least for nitrates. We're talking about good lubrication practice. Good practice means that the farmer has the consciousness to carry out this good practice. For example, the farmer, who pollutes less, to restore the aquifer, has reduced efficiency and is subsidised for it. So he's getting money for it. However, no one can guarantee, because there are black market circuits, that an allegedly badly managed farmer will not say that he is polluting less and will not get illegal fertilisers from the black market, with which his field will be polluted. It will, of course, have a super-performance, and at the same time it will also have the hand subsidy. It is a danger that, to control it, it is not enough to say that we have private scholars or non-private scholars. A comprehensive practice is needed. There are soil laboratories, regional farm applications and fertiliser analysis laboratories, but they are very few. From there on, private workshops are being set up does not mean that these will now be more reliable in terms of what they control, how they control, the issue of corruption, and how the control is being exercised to deal with it. These are important questions. It's not just. As far as HSD is concerned, it's a race. Private contractors are shutting them down. From there on, very big toys have obviously been played on the waste issue, which we all know, blackmail to mayors - "to close the HSD, you will sign up for my great work" - and so on. It's common secret that this has been done. And if you want to know, I'm a little nervous, because out with mayor I'm talking right now. I have an appointment with them, because these issues need to be resolved. These issues will only be solved by the state if it implements a specific political will purely and backward. At this point I would say - because it has not been the case in Parliament - that in this sense I am totally opposed to the universal governments, because the universal governments do not have that guarantee. They are urgent solutions along the path of democracy historically. There's a will, there's a direction in a government, there's a responsibility in a government. And, badly lies, the environment in all the previous governments was the scoundrel, it was the barbaric. It has never been considered the environment, as by other governments in other countries, as the backbone of economic development, as our own government considers. It is our view and we are serving it consistently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Tuesday 19 January 2016 and Thursday 21 January 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u54	The minutes of Tuesday 19 January 2016 and Thursday 21 January 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-07-S1-commons.u55	With the consent of the House at 18.58 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, March 8, 2016 at 11.00 with the special sitting of Parliament, on the subject: "Equal participation of women in political and social decision-making centres", according to the special agenda distributed.
