ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question report of Thursday 19 May 2016, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Harulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of National Defence on measures to maintain and restore the Heidaris concentration camp and the promotion of the site as a Memorandum of National Resistance. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 859/13-5-2016 of the Greek MP, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the lack of political will of the Government to improve road safety in line with the objectives of the European Strategy and the National Plan for 2020. 3. The question by No. 857/11-5-2016 of the current question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about "the resurrected action of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace". 4. The question by No. 861/13-5-2016 was raised by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the situation in the Congregation of Congregation of Congregation of Music. 5. The Question No 869/16-5-2016 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Health on the problems of the health structures of Kefalonia and Ithaca. 6. The Question No 865/16-5-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on compliance with the rules for the prevention, control and eradication of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies in ovine and caprine animals. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question, under number 862/13-5-2016, is a timely question by MP B' Athens of the Association of Centres, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the undue delay in the recognition of professional qualifications in Engineering, due to the failure to adopt the regulatory presidential decrees. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 860/13-5-2016 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the imposition of a night's fee in rooms and hotels. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 864/13-5-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the "provocations of Turkish-speaking, fake and Consulate in Xanthi". 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the problem of not conducting tests for obtaining a driving licence. 4. Under number 870/16-5-2016, a topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the reduction of the definitive basic payment entitlements for thousands of young farmers from a lack of information, arbitrary actions and mistakes of public administration. 5. The Question No 866/16-5-2016 by MP Mr. II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the impermeable introduction of electricity. 6. Mr Athanasios Davakis, Member of the European Parliament, asked the Minister of National Defence about the "Greek Defence Systems S.A." under number 837/6-5-2016. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the inclusion of the Department of Digital Systems of the University of Piraeus in the 2nd Scientific Field (EP) - Scientific Field of Positive and Technological Sciences. 8. The question by No. 836/4-5-2016 of the Greek Parliamentary I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the problems and prospects of the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO). 9. The Question No 840/9-5-2016 by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the problems and in the absence of a professional statement of status for rural photovoltaics. 10. The question by No. 838/6-5-2016 of the Greek Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Constantine Hatzidakis, about the living conditions of refugees - migrants in Greece. 11. The Question No 813/21-4-2016 by MP B' Athens, Nea Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the "interviewed intervention of the Ministry in the selection of a hundred doctors and four hundred nurses". 12. The timely question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Constantine Steerios to the Minister of Health about the need to prevent, treat and support the Volos cancer patients. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 3297/232/18-2-2016 by the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the pilot project "Guaranteed Social Income" (ESC). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 4413/1-4-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the Minimum Guaranteed Income. 3. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the restoration of the old First First First Chamber of Sparta for the housing of the General Archives of the State of Laconia. 4. The 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that the Standing Committee on Formatological Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport "Structuring the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Mutual Establishment of Cultural Centres". I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Tenical Responsibility of Ministers", as is the case, on the 16-5-2016 criminal case, concerning the former Deputy Minister of Health, Mario Salma. The Member, Mr Ioannis Pakisotakis, shall request permission from a short-day absence abroad in Brussels for personal reasons on the date of 19 May to 22 May 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on Maritime Cooperation". As you know, the bill was passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Then we'll say who's going to take the floor. A ministerial and two parliamentary amendments have also been tabled, Nos 433/2, No 432/1 and No 434/3 respectively. I propose to the Ministerial Amendment that the rapporteurs and the special speakers be placed and, if necessary, the parliamentary representatives, for five minutes each. Also, I would like to inform you that the following parties have voted for ratification of the agreement: SYRIZA in favour, New Democracy has reservations, Golden Dawn against, the Democratic Assent in favour, the JRC against, the Potami in favour, the Independent Greeks in favour and the Centron Association in favour. The New Democracy, the Golden Dawn and the JRC will therefore be given the floor on this ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u5	You have the floor, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u6	I would like to make an introductory comment on today. As you know, in the time of the memorandum, the country's civil servants unfortunately have very little memory. I must therefore speak for a moment and tell the ladies and gentlemen that it is now a hundred years since 17 May 1914, which signed the Protocol of Kyrgyzstan, that is, the Protocol of autonomy of Northern Epirus. I believe that the rest of the parties, which we are talking about for flea, are honouring and keeping a minute's silence or making reference to unrelated issues, and we are not making reference to very important national issues. Let me remind the ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, Madam President, that the Kerkyra Protocol is a diplomatic document which is in force. Our position is that at last for the rights of the Greeks of Northern Epirus, and not of the minority, the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs should claim its application. To this end, and to inform the gentlemen and gentlemen, I will submit to the Minutes some of our positions on the Kerkyra Protocol - such as, for example, we say 'apply foreign policy' - and it is about the Protocol of Kerkyra, what it means to Corfu and Florence, when it was signed and whether that is the case. I would therefore like the honourable Members to know about the various Americans from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whether on the right or on the left, that the Protocol of Kerkyra applies. As they want to talk about the 1922 Lausanne Agreement, the same must be said of the Protocol of Kirkras in 1914. It's the only national policy. And leave the friendship and alliance with the neighboring country, Albania, a country that has been characterized by some 'the troublemaker of Europe', a country that, if you see it on the map, is literally the spoon of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Metarakis, will you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u8	First, Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order, if I may. The amendments tabled today have been tabled in breach of Rule 87(2) of the Rules of Procedure and I would ask that they be withdrawn. They have also been filed in breach of Rule 88(3) of the Rules of Procedure as outside the main object of the bill and we are also asking for them to be withdrawn. If you disagree, you should raise the matter in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u9	Madam President, is the ratification closed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u10	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u11	What we did Thursday, we can do it again today. In the first instance, as you said at the outset, the ratification procedure should be closed. Then, because we also have a ministerial amendment and a parliamentary resolution, to go to the procedure that is exceptionally fine, but economically in relation to the Rules of Procedure, we followed on Thursday that the groups, rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives should speak, and any colleague from the Chamber who wants to open up a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u12	First of all, Mr Loverdos, there are no relevant ministers here. You have tabled them today, I think. At least, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u13	Here it is. There's a co-responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u14	I'm talking about parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u15	Parliament will be placed in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u16	What can we say here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u17	That will be said by the Ministers present, that they cannot cover the subject of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u18	The Ministers present?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u19	Sure. Let one of the speakers say that he cannot adopt the amendment or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u20	I will give the floor to the Minister, who has tabled it, to tell us what is the urgent reason he has been tabled to judge whether or not to be discussed. Mr. Toska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a serious problem with the competitive procedures. It's known. The minimum period of completion of a procedure is more than six months, unless objections are raised, so the matter goes to the administrative courts with an undetermined period of time. The extension granted until 14 April 2016 in order to have passed the Public Procurement Act. Since this bill has not been filed, and because there is an absolute need to provide basic spare parts and materials and oilseeds for the Greek Police - the Greek Police cannot live without frequent supplies of oilseeds, spare parts - we ask for a four-month extension. I think it is perfectly logical - by the end of August - to meet the daily needs of the Greek police. That is the reason for the urgent tabling of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u22	You heard the Minister. There's a matter of time. There's been some time limit for supplies. I think it would be reasonable if this amendment were tabled. If you insist, I will put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u23	Madam President, we have said so last time. There is no question of voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u24	And what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u25	Make installations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Metarakis has been placed. Does anyone from SYRIZA want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u27	Madam President, I.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u28	Here you go, Mr. Santorinier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. I think what the Minister said is obvious. The Greek police cannot stand still, because some procedures will obviously take a long time, in other words, to complete the competitive process. It is an important need for the Greek police, and I therefore do not think it is a question of a short extension of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u30	From Golden Dawn do you want to place in it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u31	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u32	Here you go, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u33	First of all, we should not be talking about the amendment, and I wonder why it was not stressed by anyone that it was unorthodox. There is again a ministerial amendment to ratification. We said last time it would be the last time. A number of colleagues from the other parties were put in place, the Bureau had agreed and it did not pass a week - you remember the amendments tabled by Mr Stathakis and Mr Spirtzi - and again we have an amendment to ratification. This fairy tale has to end sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u34	Does anyone want to speak from the Democratic Reconciliation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u35	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u36	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u37	First of all, I am coming back to our request to open a list. There are colleagues who want to support the amendments to be rejected and also the Ministerial amendment, saying their views. That, as we did very well on Thursday, you have to do it again. Now, as a parliamentary representative, I ask why I should like to say this: we have a parliamentary ratification procedure, that is to say we are following the Rules of Procedure in relation to the specific Minutes. In the past, however, certain amendments have been tabled with a strict exception in the past. There are two - three ministerial amendments here every time a penalty comes. Last Thursday, in order to correct this bad situation - and indeed the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Vaki, said 'yes' to that - we said that we are now escaping from the summary specific procedures, Articles 108, 111 etc. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. You must do this, Madam President. You will see that there will be three - four colleagues who will stand up and ask for the floor. I now come to the Minister of Public Order and say to him: Last Thursday, Minister, three amendments were tabled by ministers, ten days ago in a draft law by the Ministry of Education, twenty amendments were tabled, the majority of which were ministerial or ministerial, who were at the expense of the Ministries and were proposed by the Ministries. Didn't you have that picture five or ten days ago? Did you get her the weekend she spent? Why do you create this difficulty for us? We could say 'yes' to your amendment and other parties, not just us. Why do you bring us into this difficulty, have a paradoxical parliamentary procedure and have to decide whether to say 'no' to all the amendments or whether to 'yes'? What you're saying doesn't sound strange in the House. You want an extension and that's what you're doing, so the police can get the right money. Sounds reasonable. However, the complaint could also be filed: and why did you not rush to settle the proceedings earlier? Or as I said now: why didn't you come with your other colleagues under a normal draft law? That is why, Madam President, to conclude in a positive climate, please: first, I repeat, open the list. Secondly, Madam President, we should like to hear our comments on the amendments we have tabled. Mr President, I have tabled an amendment which is monolithic. On that day of the Ministry of Education of the many amendments, a parliamentary amendment of sixteen members of the majority of the SYRIZA was tabled - of which only one from Attica, the others are all members of the region - where the change of some uses was foreseen and, in any case, the inexpensive transfer of a piece of the coastline to the Ministry of Justice, with a view to establishing courts there. We told the Minister of Education present to take her back and consult with the local government. He didn't watch it. The next day, there was a great deal of noise from both local government, but also from parliament, and the government held a meeting with Ms. Duru and allied ministers and retreated. But the product of retreat did not come to the House and the Minister, who came here to answer my own timely question on Friday, Mr. Paradulopoulos said that he would be there and inspect Ruf's buildings and if they did, he would take it. If there was no other building, he told us, he would insist on the beach building. I do not want to develop the argument, which has been developed in Parliament several times by me and by other colleagues, and which is recorded in the drafting report on the amendment that I have tabled today. I would ask that the amendment be accepted, because it says that that sinful amendment is withdrawn on Friday. Nothing else says. Where the courts go, what happens, the government will see it with the appropriate units it has and with its available time. But you, the Secretary of the Ministerial Council, now, have to take a leave to accept this amendment. It's monolithic. It abolishes a sinful provision which the government itself, recognizing its mistake, stated that it would take back, but did not take it either last Thursday, which had three ministerial amendments, nor today, which you, Minister of the Public Order, brought in your own amendment. We have also, as a Democratic Independence, tabled another amendment, which I refer to, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, on the subject created by the benefits of those officials who are handling the tests for the delayed driving licences. We have made so many interventions here as an Opposition in Parliament and we want to unblock the issue on which the government has admitted that we are giving a solution. At any rate for the first, but also for the second, we want the government to clarify its position. Otherwise, Madam President - and I am closing - it is really paradoxical that the Rules of Procedure should be completely violated, that we all accept for the good of certain issues that are economical, and that function in itself should only be of concern to the government, not to the House itself, on matters which the Government has agreed, Mr Ministers, that something must be changed, something that it has done wrongly. Madam President, I am closing with a phrase - it is out of the question - which I would like you to convey to the President of Parliament, because there has been a literature these days for an event for Andreas Papandreou. Colleagues, I have made this proposal because it has been completed for twenty years. You were ahead of me as Parliamentary representative of the River, Mr Amyras, to the administration of the Democracy Foundation. It has taken a dimension, Madam President, from what I hear from the President of the PASOK, not even the President of Parliament. I mean, it's getting out of hand. From a photography report, to which Professor Paul Surlas will speak - so much is done - the subject has escaped and taken the other dimensions. If you are going to do something, which will be used against us and for other reasons, do an event for Mamanea in the House to honor him! You used him when you chased us in 1989.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u38	I don't understand. We shall therefore continue the process. I will give all the parliamentary representatives five minutes to talk about the Minister's amendment and then the Minister will speak. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u39	During the debate on the ratification of the memorandum in committee, the Communist Party of Greece asked the Minister Dritsa the question if he intends to bring amendments to the ratification of this memorandum. His answer was negative, unless there's something very extraordinary. What I understand is that since he's been hanged and come, he has the agreement, even though he's not your object. So the matter of withdrawal is not coming in. It'll be discussed. The second thing I have to say is that two parliamentary amendments have been tabled. We ask the Minister to tell us whether or not he accepts them. Of course, it's not the object of the Ministry. In their contents, we have no objections. We also agree on the traffic patterns of the ELGA workers, who are already in the process of mobilisation and cannot carry out the value-added work, but also on the amendment to repeal Article 78 of Law 4386. We therefore propose in our suggestion, Madam President, that the ones we are going to talk about should also be taken as a whole on the content of the ratification of the memorandum, on the amendment and on how we vote. In this sense, I ask the Bureau to tolerate this five-minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, thirteen students and students of the ANT1 Journalism School. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to say that, as far as the amendments are concerned - whether they are urgent or not - it has become normal for them to be discussed in this way. I call on the Government to take a different approach to this issue, because it is unfair to itself, to the functioning of Parliament, and, of course, it is inappropriate for certain issues, which do indeed have the form of urgency. For the specific amendment tabled by Minister Toska, one cannot, in essence, deny that there are indeed major issues which, through these delayed procedures, obviously cannot be dealt with. However, the revision of the National System of Procurement is also a matter that is more about the public and not just about the issues of your own Ministry. Give us a picture of where this case lies, which I think is of particular interest to everyone and, above all, to the government. Of course, we live as a country through prolongations. But that doesn't take us away. So on these issues and on whatever extensions we think we are giving solutions, there must be a visible point of completion of these extensions and a process of organising the normality that will take us further. With regard to the amendment tabled by Mr Loverdos, we consider it necessary for the government to adopt it because it has not closed the matter, which was created in abstraction and an absolute absurdity. From the very first moment our party tabled a question, exercising parliamentary control, immediately after the vote, namely, a majority of this regulation, which I do not know from which 'brains' was arrested, when there are so many buildings and so many other areas, which are suitable for spatial planning to work for and why we want the ownership of the public and are ponding. I think, Madam President, that a list of speakers should be opened. I do not think there are many colleagues who are interested in speaking. Let us follow the procedure we followed last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you are a Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. You want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u43	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u44	You, Mr. Carras?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u45	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. I will not repeat the haircuts that I have to repeat every time. I shall say, however, that the way in which the government adopts amendments is not only tiring, not only is it not lawful, but also definite the level of the House, because amendments are coming, which are often not in a position to assess, but also in the way that they are introduced - a brothel, I would say - in large bills, we do not 'take a scent' for what they are trying to regulate. So in Mr Toska's amendment, which I see here in front of me, I cannot say no. However, I will say something that I said when the first amendment came, which gave extension until April 2016. We had then recognised the need for a solution, even this temporary one given by extending police matters, we recognized the need for the feeding of foreigners, third-country nationals who were in Greece, regardless of whether they were refugees or immigrants. However, if you look at the Minutes, Madam President, you will see that I had said that the way in which you legislate on such important matters should not be covered with rough, transitional and mediators, if you allow me, solutions, but a greater extension should have been made at the outset, because we realised that the government was not intending to bring public procurement legislation. My conviction remains firm on this point, because we are again calling for an extension, as requested by other ministers and in the end we do not see a procurement law. At this point I would like to comment on the following: Supplies are a part in which the government can make a real economy, while in the way of direct assignments, even with the EUR 20,000 - the exception - is known - and with the rough solutions that are being given, we will not go to the so-called 'climate economies'. On the contrary, we're going to disperse, possibly, public money. And when I talk about 'climate economies', I mean that any small-scale manoeuvre, any small enterprise wants to be rescued, carries out these expenditure limitations. With regard to the two amendments tabled by my fellow Members now: in fact, the question of granting the courtyard of Kallithea's beach volleyball was and remains a scandal. Why am I saying this, Madam President? Because the government did not have the stature to come into the House to raise this issue and brought it through an amendment to Members of Parliament, respecters and loved ones of many of them, but MPs in the province, who were unable or unable to know the issues raised by the inhabitants of coastal areas. I will say something else, because I do not know if it is even the subject of an amendment, the question of the courts. The courts are a public service and an absolute competence of the Minister of Justice, because it is a provision of justice by the state. It is not a question that could be done by accepting a parliamentary amendment. You are a lawmaker, Madam President, and you know that the Ministry of Justice should have come here and put it in place if it were willing to regulate it. And I say this because it is not just a simple amendment by colleagues, who, as I said, I honor them and appreciate them, because I know them very much. But what's going on? It usually comes with a parliamentary amendment to deal directly with citizens' problems. But not to regulate issues of public services and justice. From what bidding did colleagues come of the Holy Spirit and have asked for an amendment to make the trials at the beach volleyyard of Kallithea and Faliro? So I will say it, Madam President. It was an orderly way of not taking responsibility for the government. He wanted to get over this stud. I'll say something else, because I want to finish. It was and remains an environmental crime, because no one studied, when he asked for this amendment to come, nor what the Regulatory Plan of Athens and the wider Attica provides for, nor the studies that exist for the region and for its mild development. Nor did anyone think about the burden it would bear on the people, the deprivation of useful and valuable spaces for sports children and all that we wanted to solve, to resolve a question of justice quickly. It is not justice rendered in this way. But the administration of justice, Madam President, is a major issue that has escaped from the government. It wanted petty to deal with it and solve it, but without taking the cost. I therefore support my colleague's amendment and must be accepted. It should have been accepted and cancelled, without any interest, whether the courts will be transferred elsewhere or whether there will be a suitable place. I'm a fighter and I'm not supposed to say that. But the need for the withdrawal of concessions will arise, even if we do not have any other solutions. I have to tell you this, I am very sceptical and I have very many doubts at the moment as to whether or not the proposed solution of the camp is appropriate, because what we are talking about is the courthouse. Is the courthouse going to be granted? Will we close a structure of military justice to cover the big trials? Let the government show braveness. Let them get in touch with the relevant Minister of Justice and withdraw the arrangement. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u48	The Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u49	Are we talking about ratification? We haven't even talked about ratification yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u50	That's all we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u51	Then I'd like to talk about the sanction after.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u52	If you want, you'll ask for the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u53	I won't talk about ratification. I am going to place myself on what has been discussed here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u54	Oh, no. You will be talking about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u55	Madam President, is the procedure based on the Rules of Procedure of the House legitimate? We're seventy MPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u56	Madam President, I have asked for the floor. Then he can also take the floor for anyone he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u57	Under the Rules of Procedure, can we today act as a plenary? We're sixty-one. Is this a parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u58	I happen to have asked for the floor, Mr Papoutsis. May I, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u59	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, let us make a few things clear, in addition to attempts to create deliberate impressions in this Chamber. Indeed, the special procedure under Rule 108 et seq., the brief and concise procedure provided for the ratification of memorandums, contracts, and all of this, does not provide for generalisation of the debate, does not provide for amendments, does not provide for anything else. We know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u61	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u62	Indeed, the government and the Bureau and all Parliament's wings must do our utmost to safeguard this. We have agreed on this before and recently, and we will be having this today in the debate we are having, because that is indeed the case. We must not inaugurate, in the absence of the Rules of Procedure of another kind. We all agree on that. The other day - Mrs Manolakou is right - I asked the committee procedure if another amendment is to come and I said: 'No, I will not bring it. I do not know that there is any other amendment tabled so far. I think it will not happen unless it is very necessary.' So there comes a Minister and puts himself in the crisis of this House and the crisis of the Bureau - Mr Toskas on this issue - an urgent case. It is imperative that the Ministry urgently legislate for the reasons it has presented to you. Obviously the issue is raised in this House's judgement. The Bureau shall take over the procedure. Evidently, in this case too, the debate is, in exceptional and exceptional circumstances and with the greatest possible constraint. That's what we're going to do today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u63	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u64	In your judgment, Mr. Toska's proposal is. Of course, where else would a Minister go if not in Parliament? Let's see now. What is a necessity - and it can be judged by each side of the House, if it is justified, if it is not justified - is obviously not an attempt to secure the vote of the House. We have criteria. This is not about 'night's amendments', 'historical' amendments of older times. This isn't about it. This is an extension. Nothing really changes anything terrible. It does not create hidden legislation by changing data. It's all obvious. We are aware of those who are aged, what has happened to the Greek Parliament many times under other regimes - literally with the amendments that were voted on at night and who have changed fundamental issues and shared the cards many times. Let's not extend to that. What I am describing, ladies and gentlemen, can also open up the way for parliamentary amendments? From there on generalization becomes full? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u65	Don't do it like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u66	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u67	Is that possible? Here is the urgent need for the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u68	Don't do it like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u69	Please don't interrupt me. It is the urgent need for the government, a minister, to address this House and ask for its approval, the urgent legalization. What is the matter with Parliament's amendments? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, let me finish. How do they identify them? In order to create voter impressions of similar importance, similarly, with the unfamiliar memory of health bombs for seropositives - let us not forget these - a case which was discussed here five days ago by Mr Paradise, the Minister of Justice and responded and of course the final legislation is pending. Where, then, is Parliament's imperfection on the part of the government, if it is not definite from some of the initiatives of other parties, to create impressions on television that it is supposedly an environmental bomb, a attack on the inhabitants of the Lecade and all this? So the feasibility is clear. Furthermore, it is obvious - and I am sure you are all familiar with what I said - that you are all aware - and those who tabled the legislative amendments and all of you - that there is no possibility for me or Mr Toska to accept them because of lack of competence. Can the Minister for Maritime Affairs be legislated on matters of justice or on matters of another Ministry? How can you ask me to accept them so that they can be voted on? You know that. It's not that you don't know. You know it better than me and everyone. Let's finish it. Let the debate on the ministerial amendment be generalised and put to the vote. Parliamentary amendments cannot be accepted either on the basis of the substance - although I do not actually go into it - or by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u71	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u72	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u73	Since the Minister does not accept the parliamentary amendments and so that we do not have an endless debate, I will give the floor to the speaker for five minutes to deal with any questions they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u74	First of all, Madam President, we will be putting the ratification on the table.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u75	Those who disagree will be placed on the ratification of the agreement. Let everyone else talk about all the issues raised in this Chamber, whether they consider some of them personally or politically or whatever, so that we do not hold the mammoth meetings for no reason. Let's go, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u76	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u77	Leave it, Mr. Loverdo. You'll talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u78	Madam President, there is a matter of staff from the Minister's speech. You'll understand as soon as I develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u79	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u80	I would ask you to explain this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u81	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u82	Minister, I imagine you know the joke that was called in the 1970s, 'and you who are oppressing blacks'. We raised other issues, you referred to me in relation to positive prostitutes. You're a slander and I'll tell you why. Because you are very well aware that in 2013 in the Greek Parliament there was a debate in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, present at Mr Voutsi, Mrs Constantopoulos, and other Members of this House, and that report was made more than ten times. So in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency - and it was heard in the House too - the Personal Data Protection Authority which decided on the case as to whether personal data were breached by the executive, did by Mr Christoforos, then its President, an explicit reference to her decision, according to which there was no Minister for the Public Prosecutor's order for the publication of photographs, but of the Attorney's Office, as, according to the legislation of 1997, I was a professor at the university and a lawyer, Mr. Minister, who was alone in charge. This responsibility was exercised by the Prosecutor - obviously not by me - and my own intervention - as a recent dialogue allowed me to remember - was that after we arrived at these points, then the illegal prostitution of posted customers should also be treated by the criminal legislator. That was my intervention. So what is this matter doing here now? And, secondly, how do you ignore something that this House has repeatedly heard, although you have been a Member of the Anti-Population since 2015, Minister? Please do not repeat such posts. The question we have raised also concerns the application of the Rules of Procedure. As for the needs of the government for the second time there is a request for an extension - ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that the Ministry has asked for an extension - and this Parliament is disappointed, in any case, to understand the needs of the Greek administration and sees in alpha or beta the ministerial amendments, how are you doing this fraudulently, considering us problematic amendments? In the same sense, there is the request made by Members - a parliamentary group here and a Member - for a serious and urgent situation. One of the two has been recognized as a serious and urgent situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u83	You'll talk about the staff. Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u84	So, Minister, I ask you not to be insulting, not to be slandering and not to change the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u85	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u86	No, Minister. We can't do this business all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u87	He called me a slander, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u88	When you get the floor, you'll answer all the matter. We're starting with the speakers. Mr. Mitaris has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has reserved the committee for the vote on this memorandum, because we considered that, in the new practice of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, it should bring forward delayed and irrelevant amendments whenever we have ratification. This demolishes the House. First of all, it underestimates the Standing Committees of Parliament which are unable to discuss these important issues that we have today. Minister, you said something that, although I am a new Member - four years alone - I can say that it is insulting Parliament: the ministerial amendments are serious and Parliament's amendments are not serious! The ministerial amendments may be urgent, the MEPs are not, and they are vote. First of all, because most of the amendments have now been tabled by Members of the SYRIZA, to their honor, you suggest that your own Members are voters! That is why I am forced to react. And on the basis of Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, Madam President, I am tabling the following: Firstly, a request to withdraw the amendments pursuant to Article 87. And you have the right, Madam President, to put it in this House and to decide with a stir that they are not late. Secondly, I ask that they be withdrawn as irrelevant on the matter of the bill, in accordance with Rule 88, which you cannot put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And thirdly - to prevent you - I ask that the entire bill, in accordance with Article 104(4), should not be passed today. I am tabling them for the Minutes and in accordance with Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm now going to the subject of the registered memorandum. The New Democracy has always supported the development of Greece's relations with China. It was, moreover, the New Democracy Government which signed in January 2006 the overall strategic partnership between the two countries. It was Kostas Karamanlis who envisioned and executed its great investment "COSCO" in the port of Piraeus, an investment despite the intense reactions of the left. It was Antonis Samaras who developed this relationship in a more integrated cooperation based on the sea. We stepped up cooperation and gave it a clear economic and business content. We tried to use the example of 'COSCO' in Piraeus, despite SYRIZA's reactions, which he assured would fight to cancel privatisation. And we did it, as it turned out that China, being a strong, dynamic and steady rising power, trusted Greece and the Greeks. It carried out important investment projects and could be a key source of investment to Greece in the years to come. Finally, despite your rhetoric, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, you have completed the investment of 'COSCO', as I am passing away, you have completed the regional airports, which we discussed yesterday at a timely question here in plenary, such as, to be timely, you are celebrating today the TAP pipeline, in which you reacted strongly as opposition, which in the first months of your administration you have tried to undermine, investing in supposedly other pipelines. But today you are celebrating this work signed by Antonis Samaras. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy opened up the new road of silk to sea, making Greece a key gateway to the East to the West, giving value to our country's geostrategic position, supporting Greek commercial shipping. An important part of this effort is the currently being ratified memorandum, which we are discussing today, signed by the then Minister of Maritime Affairs Mr. Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, a memorandum seeking to further promote and deepen the Chinese strategic cooperation in the maritime and maritime sector in general. The current agreement is a continuation of multiple agreements, multiple visits, Greek missions in China and Chinese missions in Greece. The last, June 2014, led here, in Athens, to the signing of trade agreements between Greece and China, totalling EUR 6.5 billion. To conclude, the memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on cooperation in the field of maritime affairs is a beneficial agreement for our country. Apart from that, however, we want to keep this strategic option alive. When others, inside and outside Greece, saw only the danger posed by the deep crisis or cling to their ideas, China, in the wisdom of its long history, had the insight to see the opportunity and invest in Greece. In principle, Madam President, the New Democracy will vote in favour of the Memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u92	Madam President, are we all talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u93	We'll all take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u94	Are we talking about the amendments at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u95	All of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u96	But there isn't! It's a sanction, there are articles. We talked about Article 1. I put myself in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u97	I've explained that you have five minutes to say what you want, and you chose this. It's your problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u98	Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u99	We can't. Are we going to do this business all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u100	What do you mean, Madam President, by 'continuing this job'? The government is bringing amendments to ratification. Under Rule 108, I have five minutes to talk about ratification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u101	The amendments have been explained.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u102	So I talked about ratification. I therefore have the floor to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u103	You spoke twice, since you did not accept it before and the second, that you also made the written applications, which I will put to the vote when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u104	I spoke under Rule 108.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u105	Now Mr Santorinis speaks of all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u106	Will we be able to talk about the amendments or leave? Are we going to put the amendments in place? I was placed on the basis of Article 108.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u107	For the amendments, Mr Mitaraki, the Minister said that the Members of Parliament did not accept them, and the Minister accepts it as an emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u108	What article are you following, Madam President? According to 108, I only have five minutes to talk about ratification. I talked five minutes about the sanction. If you want to talk about the amendments, you need to open a second round for the amendments. We've done it ten times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u109	We haven't done it, Mr. Metarakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u110	Why? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u111	For economic reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u112	Then we'll talk for a second each.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u113	For economic reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u114	You should abolish the Rules of Procedure then. The Minister wants to abolish the parliamentary amendments, you want to repeal the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u115	Please, Mr. Metarakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u116	Don't we have a reason to be in this Chamber? Let's vote for forced laws then! Please, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u117	You're interpreting whatever you want, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u118	Am I interpreting? Will you not give me the floor to put myself on the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u119	Madam President, let the tone down a little, please. Give me the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u120	I have given the floor to a speaker and you are interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u121	Madam President, the vote should be taken by the representative of the opposition, Mr Mitarakis, who had some objections, but who finally voted in favour - I think they wanted to speak today - Mr Kouzilos must be voted on - and also voted on the JRC. We will talk about ratification and then we will be placed on the amendment. So, what's that? How do you mix them like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u122	So we do it all the time. Read the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Metarakis, I explained I put it all together. Instead of opening three rounds of conversation, I said, to the extent that you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u124	Then we shouldn't have three hundred MPs. We have a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u125	You do not want the amendment. I don't understand. Good. You want that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u126	I'm sorry we have eight parties. We've never heard of that before. What the President says has never happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Metarakis, do not exterminate yourself. It's always happening, because I'm all the time in sanctions, by the way. That's what happens all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u128	Before you started, the President had said the procedure and you did not disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u129	I disagreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Santorinier, please wait, to do the procedure Mr. Metarakis wants, where people will rise up many times to say different things, because they have a problem. They want to get up all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u131	The ratification, the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u132	Yes, Mr. Mitarakis, you will especially rise again. May Mr. Kouzilos speak on behalf of the Golden Dawn for ratification. Here, you have the floor. Let's do the procedure as Mr. Mateatakis wants...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u133	As the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u134	...in order to please. Here you go, Mr. Kouzele.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u135	The amendments will put our parliamentary representative on the table. With regard to the ratification of the Memorandum of Cooperation with China signed by the New Democracy on 19-6-2014, we must say that we are talking about China which has a growth rate estimated for 2016 at 6.7% and which threatens Greek shipping. We must not forget that. To justify why it threatens Greek shipping, we must say that it has an aggressive investment policy worldwide. A train example for its investment activities and its purposes is what it has done in Africa. He bought with crumbs all the resources of sub-Saharan Africa. Minister, we're not afraid. It is not right to ratify a memorandum of cooperation with China. In 2012, the Maritime Funding Centre was established, which purchases Greek companies and dynamically plays its state bank, the ‘CHINA DEVELOPMENT’, which buys Greek portfolios. Then we had the New Democracy policy, which gave a gift to the Chinese, triggering nine Chinese shipyards, with Samara's wishes at that time. That's what Samaras did. If I remember correctly, the value of the yards that went to China is estimated at EUR 17 billion. Then we have the previous sanctions with China on shipping, which we have told you about. IT had then protested very strongly. Let's see what you said. You spoke about the continuation of your cooperation with China. I'm telling you that this follow-up was critical of the ITP. Let's see today's sanction. The explanatory statement states that, taking into account our country's strategic position, the memorandum submitted for ratification constitutes an agreement beneficial to Greek shipping interests. What are the Greek maritime interests it is worth? We're actually going to export know-how to some parts. Let us see some points in Article 2. One is the protection of the marine environment. We're not scared, like you said. I'm stressing it again. The only thing China has to get from us is know-how on shipping. I'm telling you, it's now a number one threat to Greek shipping. And here is the question of whether it respects international conventions such as SOLAS, MARPOL, STCW. Marine resources: As I told you in committee, China has bought mining platforms from all over the world. So it will, in fact, implement the policy it had implemented throughout sub-Saharan Africa. So what's he gonna do? He'll find a country broken up, he'll come in and get into the contests so he can with platforms, with know-how, with everything he wants at a very small cost. 'Sea policy'. Meaning? It's too vague. 'Other areas to be agreed'. It's vague, too. In Article 3, we're going to make an export of know-how, as I say again. We are pleased that the ANELs have actually agreed in committee with us. However, they actually voted in favour. And it is worth noting, from the Minutes, what the rapporteur of the ANLL said, that the Chinese are not good people and that I have the luck of working with them. From there on, that's what China's intentions look like and what it has done. We all know that very well. As an investor, as a co-operation, she always looks at her interest. And it's good. Cooperation on Greek interests will not be beneficial. That is why we are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u136	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and students and four educational sessions from the Elementary School of Waterkouri Chania and the 2nd School of Ferra Evros. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Diamanto Manolakou has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u137	I ask for your tolerance, because I will speak once. I shall also speak about the amendment. In the debate in the committee, Minister, you said that it is very important that a small country should develop transnational relations. We say that it is natural for there to be transnational relations, because no country has and does not produce everything on its own. That is why we are in favour of equal trade relations which benefit workers and peoples. But this is not what this is all about. Wind of such agreements are monopolies and business groups enjoying special privileges, such as tax exemptions, exemptions from customs duties, favourable financing and other measures to exploit raw materials and abusive labour force. We experience this in Piraeus and you know it. The experience that exists so far is that Chinese magistrates make use of infrastructures of the SPA, the PPA - geostrategic position, natural resources - by ensuring legislation of abusive labour force in their feathers. They've got huge profits, no taxes. These are the only ones you have for poor folk mattresses with laws - looting and automatic cutters in wages and pensions. Shipping companies closed down to Piraeus. Small transport companies put a padlock on. Packets saw their cigarette evaporate. Thirty thousand jobs have been lost. What did these Chinese magmas make? They made a few hundred jobs, of course created by the monopoly, with half the wages they were paid for in the PPA. And, of course, they are "carryed out" workers and hired as unskilled workers to be cheaper in the labour market, with cracked cuts, without regulations, hygiene and safety measures. We even have accidents that are not reported because ambulances are not called. For a number of workers there is a rotating employment scheme with remuneration of EUR 300 and EUR 400, with daily contracts, via super-processors. This is why the Chinese company’s turnover was set off at heights. At the same time, remuneration and personnel expenses decreased. The PPA 1 workers know that you are about to surrender and live in anguish about what awaits them, because there is no guarantee from the government that their rights will be guaranteed. It is well known, therefore, that China focuses its cooperation on energy, investment, projects and infrastructures and trade facilitations to promote the 'Mexico Road', trade and energy routes, sea and land, which are leading Chinese major companies, with a view, of course, to strengthening their position as a whole from the entire West and East connection. The geostrategic position of Greece as a link between the East and the West, the sea and everything associated with it, from a commercial fleet to a hydrocarbon extraction, are the advantages of the country. This is why the ratification of Memorandums goes further, deepening the cooperation with Greece, due to a geostrategic position that serves the "Mexico Road" and other sectors, in addition to shipping and trade. In the question we asked you, Minister, on point (b) of Article 2, on the question that the exploration and exploitation of marine mineral resources between the objects of cooperation is also the exploration and exploitation of marine mineral resources, we got the answer that it is too early to say it. But Mr. Skourletis, speaking last Friday at an official dinner for an international oil meeting, made simple invitations to international oil companies to invest in the field of hydrocarbons research and exploitation. Also, there are various banks in China which finance investments that are of interest to its interests, as is done with the renewal of the Greek fleet, strengthening Greek logistics with cheap money. Of course, this is the stimulus that breaks down, shrinks the ship repair zone in Perama. Ship capital is therefore gaining, workers lose their jobs, unemployment exceed 90%, and seafarers' wages are being smashed. The strategy therefore plays with Greece, as well as further expansion in bilateral cooperation concerns agreements for profitable actions, which exist for capital and business groups on both sides, and that is why the parties and the governments of capital are strengthening them today and yesterday. Moreover, the Governor of the Bank of Greece recently said that China wishes to invest in Greece, not only in infrastructure and networks, but also in other sectors of the economy, such as industry and the financial sector. All this, of course, has nothing to do with the interests of the working class and other poor people in satisfying the needs of their families, since they aim to strengthen capital and business groups in the context of capitalist development. This is the development you are promoting for capitalists, not for workers and people's strata. And we have no appalling negligence about the deeply unequal agreements that facilitate action and are in the interests of capital. That is why we are voting against. As far as the ministerial amendment you have brought about is concerned, there are problems. But when it is to plan taxes, income cuts and rights, the ministries of finance and labour are very quickly and efficiently - and with fast track procedures, even with plenary sessions within a weekend, they are effective in fact - but when it comes to service needs, you are slowing down, you show twigs and the results are not there, then you are going from an extension, as is now. We have shown tolerance for the moment, we are saying'residents' in this amendment and we hope that it will be the last.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou, and to facilitate the parliamentary process. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u139	The rest of us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u140	Now we have accepted Mr Metarakis' proposal. We're in a new phase. Because it is now often in Parliament, we should thank him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u141	Madam President, I will say a few words about the memorandum of understanding. Mr Toskas will be defending the amendment. We discussed in committee a few days ago. I responded to the objections of all the wings, as they had developed. Golden Dawn had its disagreement, the Communist Party of Greece had its disagreement and therefore took the floor today normally. The New Democracy had the deal, but it did a trick. Because there would probably be amendments, he says, he wanted to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u142	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u143	He wanted to talk to say that she brought the Chinese to Greece and opened the road. The NSA brought them, Mr. Metarakis. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u144	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u145	The SAD. The Left had better relations with China before you. So, now we're gonna have a serious conversation? Not applicable. I can understand many and many of the objections that have been heard at other levels. What does this Memorandum of Understanding say, however, and why did our government accept it and promote it for a vote today in the House to be ratified? The People's Republic of China has not yet been ratified. His ratification is imminent. I hope that this will be done soon, so that the implementation process can be initiated, as is provided for. Such diplomatic documents, these agreements, the Memorandum of Understanding, have a general way of describing the data precisely why they trigger initiatives. So the memorandum of understanding - and I said it to the committee - on cooperation in the field of maritime affairs makes express reference first of all to the United Nations Conventions on the Law of the Sea. The first scope of this memorandum is international maritime law, which is a very good basis. Our country claims that all countries should join and sign the law of the sea, and we have vital interests since the signing of the law of the sea. It also refers to a number of other conventions signed by our country with the People's Republic of China. This memorandum of understanding is precisely in the context - and I told the committee - of transnational relations. It is also very important for a small country to have an active diplomatic field at the level of transnational relations. It is much different than international contracts of a Union nature. There compromises are always in favour of the young. In transnational relations you have much more room, even if you are a small country, such as our country, in relation to a huge country like China, to find parity balances. This memorial of understanding is not all that has been heard. It is neither for shipping in general, nor for ports specifically, nor for any of them. It is for the development of cooperation between research centres and universities in the field of marine sciences, information data and results, which are shown as the means to strengthen cooperation between the two countries in these areas. I also mentioned to the committee that by visiting China last November for the end of the Year of Maritime Cooperation, I met the representatives of the PPE, who are already there. They have programmes that run in the context of marine research. Many other institutes can be activated in this direction. I do not want to go far, because I have referred in detail to the committee. It is not just Article 2 that talks about the protection of the marine environment, about the exploration and exploitation of marine mineral resources and so on. I talked about it. Always at the level of research on this memorandum, it is not a project implementation and award agreement, this is not the case. Now, if anyone can imagine that this is automatically transferred there, I can tell you that it is not the case in diplomatic relations or in economic relations such automation. From there, however, I would like to point out to you the relevant article on the protection of intellectual property rights, which is imposed in accordance with the respective national laws and regulations of the parties and other international agreements signed by both parties. The use of the name, logo and references are made, and the most important one in paragraph (c) of Article 5, on the protection of rights reads: ‘In derogation from paragraph 1 above, intellectual property rights in technological development, the development of products and services carried out: 1) jointly by the parties or the research results obtained through a joint activity and effort of the parties shall be shared between the parties, under conditions to be mutually agreed and (2) exclusively separate from one party or the research results obtained by means of an exclusive and separate effort by the party to be owned by the party concerned’. Is that reciprocity? Is that protection? Whatever research will do, a research institute, a university and it will do so alone within the framework of a common design, the findings will be kept by the Greek center. Whatever we do together, they'll share it. Isn't that reciprocity? What is going to happen in practice? Here we are, looking at our designs, looking at our options and moving forward. But an transnational agreement on research, even if it is with a powerful country such as China and a small country like Greece, does not mean that it is only tradition. On the other hand, it means involving a country in transnational cooperation. After all, our country has made such cooperation with many other small, medium-sized and large countries and each has its own course. Well, that is why the Greek Government considers this memorandum of cooperation to be very positive, and that is why it introduces it to the House, in order to be ratified and made the law of the state, to do the same, and to proceed with these research programmes and cooperation in the field of research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, too. Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Madam President. We will obviously now talk about the amendments. I think the Minister made it clear that he only accepts the Minister's amendment and not the other amendments. The need for the ministerial amendment is obvious, because it is with it that direct operational needs of the Greek Police have been met, for which competitions have already been carried out. I would say that the Ministry is basically coming to prevent any judicial involvement that could lead these competitions to a very large extension and therefore there are problems with the functioning of the Greek Police. I read from the explanatory statement: 'A tender has already been made for the supply of motor fuel, heating, oilseeds. There has already been a competition for the promotion of tyre suppliers for the entire power-driven fleet of ELAS. There has already been a competition for the promotion of cleanliness service providers for police services. And there has already been a competition for the promotion of food service providers in the emergency detention centres." From this it seems that the Greek Government is not expecting the last moment, but you understand that, once there are the strikes of judges and lawyers, it is likely that a delay will lead to major problems in the operation of the Greek Police and it is therefore clear that this amendment must be voted on. For the other two amendments, which are parliamentary and which the Minister has not accepted - and I think it has rightly done - I want to make three comments without going into the substance of the amendments. The first is that it is oxime when, in this Chamber, the opposition comes to beat the government down on the wrong way of legislating, when, if you like, we have all agreed that it should not be introduced into sanctions, but on the other hand we recognised the urgency of the process and the reason - the urgency of the Minister's amendment - for which it brings out amendments, which also bear the signature of those who take the government to introduce the amendments. The second important thing is that amendments are coming, which are the responsibility of Ministers - which are not currently in the Chamber - and specifically the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Rural Development and the Minister for Transport, Infrastructure and Networks, and it is clear that such amendments cannot be introduced without the opinion of the relevant ministers. So we cannot discuss the substance of these amendments. I will take a sentence said by the Parliamentary spokesman of the Central Association, who said that 'Where the courts are to be placed is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and should not therefore be done by a parliamentary amendment'. Let me agree with him. Will the placement be abolished by means of a parliamentary amendment? One mistake, will we abolish another mistake? Is that what we have to do? I think the Minister of Justice, Mr. Paraskevi, has clearly spoken and explained this issue in less than five days ago, and said that he will also take appropriate legislative initiatives on this issue. We expect the Justice Minister to do what he has to do. We therefore vote in favour of the amendment brought by the Minister for Civil Protection and do not go into the debate on the other two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u148	Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor. Make a time economy, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u149	I have never exceeded my time, Madam President. First of all, Madam President, I would like to remind you that there are three issues which we have raised in accordance with Rule 67, which I imagine will be discussed later. Secondly, I think that everyone in this Chamber is aware that we must at some point stabilise the process. Because there was a tension before the Chamber, and I apologise to the extent that I am responsible for it, for the fact that there is no stable procedure. I have found three times when you are presided over and every time we have a rather different procedure. Because the government, unfortunately, is using sanctions and Article 108 to bring an amendment, we must reach a stable process. What you did last time, where the rapporteurs spoke first, the contributors to ratification, and then opened up a list of speakers and spoke to colleagues, as well as colleagues from the SYRIZA who support the amendments - it is their duty and their right to support their Minister - I think it is the best procedure in this particular procedure where we normally all agree that it should not be done. As to the fact that the Members of Parliament are absent from the House, and that is why we cannot discuss parliamentary amendments, you realise that it is true what you are saying, but it is not right in Parliament. Members must be present in the House. A comment on the ratification for China: Minister, I am impressed by what you said "the Chinese came from the SAD". Probably. Then you owe us a big apology, an apology to Costas Karamanlis, an apology to Antonis Samaras for all the rhetoric that you have had against the effort made by our country to attract these large investments in recent years. It was not the New Democracy's fault that these large investments came. According to you, it was the SAD's fault. Of course the NSA was wearing a tie at the time. You also did not say whether the ESA had anything to do with the ESA that we signed today. Because if the SAR has nothing to do with it, then it is clearly an investment that came over the New Democracy. And I am glad that SYRIZA is finally aware of the need, even late, to make some major investments. On the amendments: we shall be voting 'present' on the amendment by the Ministry of the Interior. We understand and respect the need for there not to be an interruption in the supplies that the Greek Police must make. Of course, I cannot make a few comments. The first comment is that there is L.4270/14 for public procurement, which must be implemented at some point. Two years have passed, and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government was responsible for bringing in the integrated legislative framework for public procurement. You have said many times in the Chamber that the procurement procedure in the past has had many questions and many mistakes, which is why the law has come, and that is why you, with the amendments you may have to make, must apply them. But the government of SYRIZA came on February 5th and called for this special police procedure, which ended on 17-4-2016. It's been over for a month. May I ask you, Minister, for a month now we've been having a competition? I understand that this provision is retrospective, so I imagine competitions that have become irregular in the last few days will be covered by this procedure. But I will ask you: is it 16 May, you ask for a deadline by 31-8-2016, will you be ready? Let us not have this procedure that we did with the red loans, and every month there was a new amendment. I read in your explanatory statement to the amendment: '9 a) there is no specific timetable for the implementation of the competitive procedures, which are already on the part of ELAS in progress, (b) there is no legal framework, which is effective to meet the specific, exceptional and unforeseen needs of ELAS'. So, is this coming? Because if he doesn't come back, in a month, we'll come here to have the same conversation. Also, I note from the General Accounting Report of the State that contracts made for the feeding of third-country nationals residing in pre-repeal centres can also be covered by movable resources. These tests that are not carried out in the single framework will be accepted as expenditure by the European Union, or will they eventually be rejected, and while we have had the opportunity to obtain European money for feeding eventually will the national budget pay for it? The Report of the General Accounting Office of the State also shows that there may be additional costs in addition to the budget due to the derogations. And that is something that you realise that in this financial framework it cannot be accepted. I shall make a comment on the amendment tabled by Mr Loverdos, which, in principle, is totally in agreement. There is an integrated plan for the development of the coastal front, which is unfortunately being abandoned. I shall say, however, that the SYRIZA colleagues who have tabled this amendment to the House have perhaps not seen it. In accordance with Article 78(d) of the law you have deposited, any provision contrary to that provision is repealed. Consequently, you have already abolished Article 22 of Law 3342/2005 which laid down the uses of land at that point, and laid down that there would be cultural and sporting uses. At the moment, the plot is without land use, because as your amendment writes, it has abolished the spatial planning that has existed since 2005 and has not replaced it with another law and with the ministerial decision made by the Minister of Justice cannot legislate. It's not a presidential decree. You cannot therefore go into town and country planning. So we have a piece of land outside of a city plan, no longer worth the public itself. Will you take it to the TIAD to do it by means of a new presidential decree to get where you were in 2005? This is the case at one time with the late parliamentary amendments which your own lawyers, the CENE of Parliament, have not been able to see, for the Commission to see, because as we legislate with amendments, mistakes are always made, and we are again called upon to get together to resolve these mistakes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u150	Thank you. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u151	I would like to talk about the amendment. I was surprised at the beginning that he defended the introduction of the Ministerial Amendment of the Ministry of Public Order, Citizen's Protection - say it as you wish - Mr Dritsas. I would expect the Minister responsible to defend the introduction of the amendment. Let me say this: did you not know that, with the previous amendment in January, the deadline has expired and will you bring it on 17 May? Is that such a vigilance the political leader of the Greek Police who is late - for the needs of your amendment - an amendment to the House? If you knew, why didn't you plan it properly and bring it into law and not a sanction, but bring it into a relevant bill? So why did you do that? Why do you work this way? If you are so operated and operated by the Greek Police, this is what frightens us of the security of our citizens. You know, at the beginning of the month I went to the police station in my area to give this present for the sake of the criminal organization, the Samara gang. Nobody's stopping me. It had been this incident before in the twelfths of a minister. I have said the same words here, a sign that you are no different from the New Democracy. I go in and nobody stops me. I enter the service officer and say to him: "Christ Anestes! What happened?’ It says to me: 'I am alone'. I say to him: 'You have no other?' He says to me: 'He went for a moment to get something'. I see a poor cop with a bag of socks. I say: "How do you survive here? If he passes a car and gambles?’ He says to me: “Mr. Pappa, God knows! God help me!’. That's the Greek police we got. We don't want that kind of police. You have taken the baton from New Democracy and you continue and you have a decorative Greek Police and not just. A Greek Police who beats the Greek people when claiming rights beats Greeks who are protesting outside the hotspots. Greeks are beaten! It also has a political leader who refuses - beyond an exception, because you had come to a timely precedent - to answer completely externally, unconstitutionally and undemocraticly to the questions of the third political power.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u152	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u153	What's the matter, Minister? It is very serious what I tell you and you should be placed. So, what are you? More democratic than the rest of your colleagues? You're from PASOK. What are you playing at, so that you can get the laurels of democracy and the Syrian laurels? Why are you doing this? You're not answering. Why don't you answer? Don't you have time? Is your work so great?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u154	Talk and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u155	I'm not saying inaccurate. You are Muzalas, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Paulakis. What are you? Are you anything different from the other ministers? On the substance. I should not be speaking about the amendment, because it is not legitimate. One of the prisoners. Secondly, there was an amendment again in January. And here the New Democracy has made terrestrials. Indeed, in order to be able to speak about the amendment, the committee said that it was reserved for the five-minute period for the rapporteur to make his own account. What did New Democracy vote in January 2016 on the relevant amendment, which today says 'present'? Does anyone remember? Because I do not remember, I want you to tell me, since we are more relaxed and has introduced new morals - and you are doing well - the dear President. Do you remember what you had voted on in January 2016? Gentlemen of the New Democracy, what did you have voted on then? You know? Do You Remember? You don't even remember. Now you turn it around and say 'no', you say 'no', you say 'no' at the weekend, the many 'no's', to show what you are now doing. No opposition. No trust should be given to the Greek people and to you and to your President, who has declared the war against the Golden Dawn. Let me remind you when we were coming in here, in this building, in the Greek Parliament, where the police left us in the basement - you were government - and you voted here all in favour of the lifting of immunity from the Members of the Golden Dawn, but in the hallways, when we went out to make a cigarette in the hallway, you went out and said: "You guys right, you guys what to do?". But you were coming in here and voting in favour of the waiver of immunity. What's the conclusion? That you are a reduced consciousness, reduced moral erection and at the same time have reduced self-esteem. Do not think that because SYRIZA is government, you will not listen to it and you who are the second, the other side of the same currency. We are against the amendment. We should not normally have placed ourselves at all. We were given the opportunity to say a few things, not for you - because you are not mindful - but above all for the Greek people who see us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, too. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. I'm on my way, saying I'm 16 years old in PASOK. I started from PAMK. Mr. Toska, I've never seen him in PASOK. It therefore accepts unjust criticism. And because the criticism of either the Golden Dawn or the SYRIZA's organisations and parliamentarians composes to the same thing, it may also do something good, the actions for which they blame him may be correct. I now come to the amendment. We have tabled an amendment which has two more urgent issues. There is a direct need to resolve the two issues mentioned in this amendment. Because the Minister's amendment - and we have heard it very well - comes to Parliament in order to deal with a problem. Here, we are talking about a problem that has been created, caused by the mistaken legalisation by the Ministry of Administrative Reform and for the last three months there have been no tests to obtain a driving licence and to upgrade a driving licence. What does that mean? It means that thousands of people cannot be considered and obtained the diploma, so either they cannot work or the Greek Police bodies put the fines required on people who do not acquire the upgraded professional diploma they need. Why? Because the services aren't working. Today we are talking about, there is an occupation in the transport directorates of Heraklion, Thessaloniki and the other transport addresses of the country. Is there a more urgent matter to deal with and solve? And there's a party position here that says it's not urgent. The second issue - which is dealt with in the amendment - concerns the assessment of the losses of the ELGA. You know that three months ago huge catastrophes took place across all the crops in northern Greece and in southern Greece, throughout the country. Estimates cannot go to make assessments because the same law abolished their ability to use their own cars. What's the result? Do not make assessments. While people have paid insurance contributions through ELGA, estimates are not made. After some time there will be no assessments, because there will be no evidence of damage so that there will be no rights to be lost. What was more urgent? So both the issues in the amendment are overly urgent. I'll tell why it's also the Ministry's responsibility. First of all, the Minister, who owns, holds, has the responsibility to introduce a bill, has the power to say yes or no to an amendment, of course, in consultation with the co-legislator, or even after the Minister responsible has placed it. That's for granted. Its presence is often unnecessarily required after consultation. That is why there is also the General Secretariat of the Government, so that the necessary consultation can be made when over-critical issues exist. I would like to remind you that the specific amendment that Mr Friends accepted was not even the Minister in it. It is not just for it but also for other amendments that have been made. So that's not necessary. But I'll tell you something else, Mr. Dritsa, Minister of Shipping. You've been transferred. It is your responsibility, too. Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Apostolos, Minister for Rural Development, and your Mr. Paradoxopoulos have transferred responsibility. The bill, which we are discussing, in which we are positive, to remind ourselves of why we have placed ourselves in committee, is about the memorandum of cooperation with China, with the Chinese, on maritime affairs. These three ministers, then, have screwed up and then who do the Chinese. So you have been transferred this to us. [[Applause]] Please get in touch with the government Secretary-General about these two over-calls. The amendments are precisely those, the one made by Mr Juliarakis, who had been brought back but withdrew, and the other, which Mr Apostlelos had made, which had been brought up but which was withdrawn. It was Article 45 in the law on cooperatives, and the other must have been Article 7. They have no burden on the state budget. For what? Because those who want to test a 10 euro paradox and that's where the examiners are paid. So there is no extra burden on the state budget, nor on the citizens. The same applies to ELGA estimates, after paying the valuation fees. Therefore, there is no burden on the state budget. I conclude by saying that if there is no attempt to accept the amendments, even though we are positively seeing the Minister's amendment on the possible need when the urgent need is not tackled at the moment in many thousands of citizens, we will be in'represent'. We will not be opposed, we will be with 'the present'. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u158	Madam President, a clarification. I did something wrong, I did a boom, and I have to fix it. Twenty seconds, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u159	Here you go, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u160	Madam President, we Greek nationalists and I personally have no problem saying 'My mistake'. Previously, when we were developing our positions on the amendment, I told Mr Toska that he did not answer our questions. It was a mistake. Mr. Toskas answers our questions, other colleagues are not answering. I want to correct it and say, Mr Toska, mea cuulpa, it will not be repeated, it has been said on the opposition ostrich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Amyras has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately today, it is becoming clear and in the most intense way, in our view, that you are legislating in a subtle way. Mr Dritsa said before, rejecting the Loverdus parliamentary amendment abolishing the concession of the Falikian Coast and Kalithea's exit to the sea to the Ministry of Justice, that he cannot accept this amendment, first of all, because he is unreserved himself. Will you tell Mr. Friend when you see him out in the hallway? Mr. Philis, here ten days ago, on Friday, May 6th, accepted a parliamentary amendment by SYRIZA's government MPs, granting the great extent, this vast plot, the big beach volleyyard, to the Ministry of Justice to build courts. Then there was no incompetence, friend? Will you tell Mr. Friend? And that's all it was! An amendment on that draft law on vocational training had - listen, listen - thirty-five pages, and you consider this to be the procedure, when it is made by you at night, in smuggling ways, legal and proper, and when Members come to treat a mistake that you yourself have provoked, invoke formal reasons, which in any case cannot only apply to one side and not to the other! However, the Loverdou amendment has substance and, above all, you SYRIZA Members, who were law-abiding a night-old amendment, which was brought up to the Athens coastal front, should have accepted it. You should have taken the lead in discussing and voting, because at the moment this area, many hundred acres, with the night's amendment, is being exempted from the regulatory commitments. It's a black plot, a hole plot that no one knows where it's going to end up and what it wanted for this plot. As far as the environment is concerned, Mr. Dritsa, you're wrong. Obviously, you are not informed, and Mr. Carras was right to raise the environmental issue. Watch out now. The Athens-Attica 2021 Regulatory Plan in the issue of the presentation of the Ministry of the Environment, which was included in the announcements in June 2011 - enter the internet to see it - clearly says about this piece of land, which is now an orphan, after the night amendment of the government MPs. So what does it say? It says it is an environmental shield for an open sea front, extremely necessary for the whole of the basin. It is necessary and enforced - look, I read you - 'Conservation of natural space and biodiversity, adaptation to climate change, without additional burdens on building infrastructure and traffic'. To overcome the technical problem, why does it not call - the Secretary of Government will now see us from Parliament's channel - the responsible Minister of Justice come to discuss, accept the Lovertou amendment and thus resolve the problem that you yourself have created? That's the essence of the matter. Unless you have other plans for the coastal front and you don't tell us. You want to sell it? You don't want to know what to do with it? Do you want to give it for a new hot spot? Say it, in order to go through the sufferings of the questions here, of the procedure, and to discuss this and not to come through amendments by government MPs, behind which the government is hiding, and we do not have the opportunity to put an end to this, because the Minister responsible is not here today. But they were the other day! Still the other day, she wasn't here and she was accepted again! Callithea and Faliro need these open spaces. I watch with interest a new Mayor in Kallithea Dimitris Karnavo - independently, he did not come down with a party - who, within two years, has revived as much as possible the market in Kallithea. It continuously organises outlets for the city to the sea, and suddenly we are now obliged to wait when any minister is willing to sit down and discuss this serious problem. It's not like that! Also, with regard to Mr Toska's ministerial amendment, Mr Minister, we will all agree on its content. What we do not agree is that we have a second extension, an extension. This country must stop living with extensions. He has to stop living in tubes. We need a plan and, above all, this plan we need is no other than the framework that needs to be laid down in the provisions of the Greek State. Unfortunately, SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the supplies of the Greek public, the port, the fire department, the police, has made routine the derogating supply of materials, services and other goods, without ensuring transparency, accountability and control. So we in your amendment, Mr Minister, will vote 'at present'. Of course, I appeal to the SYRIZA colleagues, who are this: dear colleagues of the SYRIZA, wake up and come here to put pressure on you ministers and the government first to discuss the Loverde amendment to remedy the problem and this subtle chaotic situation, in terms of spatial planning, land use properties on the Faliro - Kallithea coastal front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Madam President. I waited today for a quiet afternoon, as took place around 12 noon for the exchange of cultural centers between a superpower, which is China and Greece. I think there is no man to disagree with cooperation with a country that has a billion four hundred million people and we already have some relationships, through the Port of Piraeus and I would have no hesitation to say to those who started it and to do the self-criticism we are now continuing. But I would like to say this here: one would expect one to hear some positive comments. In fact, it made me a very positive impression at noon in the Senate Hall something I did not see today. I don't think there's a man to argue that this agreement is for our country's sake. I would like to remind you, because I am speaking practically, that four to five years ago he was not hit by Chinese here in Greece. In 2015 it was a hundred twenty thousand tourists and this year it is planned to be two hundred thousand. I see it practically and I think it's very good for us and I don't talk about it. But I see that while it could be very nice and constructive to end this debate and the opposition to exercise its inalienable right, it sometimes undermines its credibility. So I want to remind you of a few things, because I see an aggressive mood at times that are not appropriate. On the 24th day of the month, that is, in a few days' time, I think it closes an evaluation, which, unfortunately, some people had bet not to. I think the country will enter another orbit and start a new reality. And I want to be a little burnt and remind of fresh facts, such as the arrest warrant for a man who, for sixteen years, has been afflicting justice, and I am referring to the President of the Greek Red Cross. I would like to remind you that the cloak is tight every day behind a banker who has been running by the Republic of Cyprus for years. I would like to remind you that we have recently heard a dialogue between the government's spokesperson and a convicted prosecutor. I would also like to remind you that half the friendly environment of the former Prime Minister is on the panama papers lists. What do I mean? We should be a little more careful in our opposition tactics, when we see that this government for the first time - I would like it even more drastic - is divorced by complexity and tax evasion. Finally, I would like to say this clearly: we are voting for the Minister's amendment and clearly the contract. I would like to talk about what the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Independence said. Indeed, this is a matter that has dealt with everyone and us. But I would like us to be more careful, because I think it has already been settled. I think it is an issue that has taken its way correctly - that is my assessment - and now it is growing more for opposition and less for substance reasons. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u165	And we thank you for the time and the measure. Mr. Megamomustakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u166	Madam President, I would like to take the floor for one minute and in addition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u167	If your colleague, Mr. Carras, hasn't finished his time. We've broken the record. Here you go, Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I hear today's debate and I am wondering what is going on here, unfortunately. I have previously heard the representative of the Independent Greeks say that they would flow nicely and quietly if the opposition did not do what he is doing now. But you admitted that it was wrong and one amendment. We from Genoa told you, for the amendment on the Greek Police, that you should legislate and not do so with amendments. We made you imperative the need to legislate then. So it's a mistake of yours. The opposition is here to present and oppose your mistakes. If we're not going to have a dialogue on the mistakes, what can we do? Then let's get out of here and go home. Then you know that Mr Loverdos' amendment is correct. We all know in here. The amendment that you brought in, the research bill, Mr. Friend, went through without the Minister being here. Now you're telling us it's wrong. Nice to meet you. What are you waiting for? Do you expect us not to react to this? Today the Minister should be here, if you want it to be, and accept it. It is a problem that you too admitted that there is and we should resolve it as soon as we can. You brought it last time. You can solve it again the same way. But you're the one who's undoing your policy. Did you expect us not to understand it and not to see it? You brought it in black at midnight. Let it go, shall we? As for the second amendment tabled by the Democratic Alliance, it should be accepted. It is a problem that exists in our society at the moment. I cannot understand, since you know that it is wrong - your rapporteur said so - why not correct it immediately. I really don't understand. That's what people see and they make fun of us. He's devalued our political system. I'm not saying the other guys were the right ones or angels or anything like that. But don't make the same mistakes as previous people did. That's all I wanted to say. I'm leaving some of my time. We are certainly in favour of ratification with China, although I was saddened by what I heard from the Minister, who said 'the smaller ones always win the largest'. We're a very strong force in shipping, and you all know it. We're positive about that. We would like the other amendments to come today for discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Carras, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u170	I won't say much. I've been covered by Mr. Megalustakas. I'll just take that note. Mr. Dritsa reacted to my location on the environment of Faliro and how to legislate, saying that I'm talking about showing me the TV. Uh, yeah, let's show me TV, show the government, show the opposition. And why did I refer to the environment? For crime is environmentally acceptable in this sense: it breaks down the unity of a legislation for which the country has been trained since 1986 under Law 1650 on environmental protection. It is trying to protect this region and an amendment comes and says otherwise. Mr. Drits said something. I'll take it as refreshing that he didn't have any information. He said this: 'But can you ask for a parliamentary amendment to abolish a regulation?' But, first, the government brought it into line with an amendment by Members of Parliament, not wanting to take the blame, not wanting the ministers - many who are also members of the district of Athens - to take the blame. So they put the MPs who are a province. I give a thousand refreshments to the Members who signed them, because they did not know the dimension. However, we, who are protesting, who are in Attica and are aware of the problem today, and we have also received the reactions, must continue with the reactions. To conclude, Madam President: if an intervention is started on the coast front, I do not want to be a veteran of evil, I know the buildings, if maintained and withdrawn, then this will happen tomorrow: the Ministry of Justice will ask for new buildings to be built, and it will ask that the needs of the existing buildings be extended because they are not covered. It is therefore an urgent need to resolve the problem and not to discuss it in the Chamber in a way. The way the concession came was bad, and therefore it is reasonable that Mr Lover's proposal should be abolished in the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-four students and students and five educational attendants from the 4th Primary School of Lefkada. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u172	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u173	What do you want, Mr. Ilhan?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u174	Although you did not open a list, I would like to say about Mr Kegeroglu's specific amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u175	Now tell me, if the Minister does not accept them, at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u176	But you didn't open a list, and we're MPs. Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u177	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u178	Okay, but you're all out of order. You're talking about things...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u179	You didn't open the list. I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u180	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u181	I think, however, that this amendment by Mr Kegeroglu on the ELGA is extremely important. And why is it of paramount importance? Watch out. After a month there won't be anything left for the evaluators to see, so here beyond the failure of the administration there are offenses. You know Article 150 of the Civil Code, the administration is persecuted for acts and omissions. Is it possible after twenty days, if you do not accept this amendment, to go to the field and find something for the assessor to appreciate? But in the hallways, the SYRIZA MPs are begging you to accept it and they say the Minister is not accepting it. It is not only of paramount importance, but I can tell you again that, after ten or fifteen days, legal problems will arise. So will we oblige the Greek citizens to go actions against compensation for actions and omissions by the administration? The concept is wider. You know, here's a constitutional right. In the ELGA regulation, people have the right to be compensated. If the estimates are not made, how will they be compensated? And my colleague explained that there is no financial burden on the Greek government here, so you will be controlled by this omission, gentlemen, and not that the Minister is not here. The responsibility is in the service and the entire government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u182	Total.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u183	A total of responsibility and legality is thus the problem. I would ask you very much to accept this amendment, or to come to the vote, of another bill this week and to prevent the worst estimates, because it exists and is real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u184	Mr Ilhan, the ministers will be informed of these amendments anyway. Of course, they will be speeded up. There's a reason why they're obviously not institutionalised. Let's not begin to assume.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u185	Don't be so sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Toskas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased at the end that there is a different climate of approach to the problem, because as you know, No 4281/2014 has not been implemented. Such a law could not be implemented by means of unrealistic means. The new legislative framework for public procurement is currently under way, and that is what we expect, in order to stop creating such problems, which, in fact, have their irrationality as one point. It is also irrational to be able to determine the time for closing a competition, which is currently normally six months, but with the appeal, as I said before, to the administrative courts is close to two years. They are things that are unacceptable to the proper functioning of a public body. The competitions, which have been mentioned before, relating to fuels, oilseeds, cleanings, feedingstuffs and various other things are under way. Discontinuation of these supplies will create a huge problem in the functioning of the police, and this forced us to bring this amendment in the form of an urgent procedure for four months until the new framework for public procurement comes to this House. You see that I am anxious to express what I want to say, because there is a very serious problem with the proper functioning of the police, which we have received with many problems, with many problems and with the mobility of cars and motorcycles. We are trying to do everything we can and of course we are not prepared to leave these cars and motorcycles without fuel, without olive oil and without feeding the feeders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor for a minute, because you have spoken too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u189	Madam President, I will try to speak less than half a minute. I have to say completely telegraphically about Mr Loverdo's amendment that he replied a few days ago to parliamentary scrutiny by the responsible Minister of Justice and informed the House and the questioner and proposed that he be in a process of regulation other than that. It is the next time to complete this process and will choose another solution to the need to cover the functioning of the courts in the large courts. That's what this House knows. It's over. The Minister responsible replied and gave the full framework and, of course, once it has completed, he will take the legislative initiative which belongs exclusively and exclusively to him and which will do so. So what's this all about? Second, I'm not a slander, Mr. Loverdos. I have discussed existing political positions, not only yours, but all of us, on the issue at issue at the time of the seropositives. Others were placed like this and others were placed differently. I'm not talking about persecution. I am talking about the political attitude that each of us has taken. So I didn't slander anyone and slander I'm not. We all remember. Thirdly, with regard to Mr Kegeroglou's amendment, tabled today at 2.30 p.m. at noon, when the Minister responsible is abroad, and when in the next few days we have bills which have been announced that they will be submitted, we are serious about losing the farm and is judged by these hours, five minutes next, the next half hour if the disaster occurs in the country's agricultural world and if citizens are hurt, farmers? Do you really think there are no solutions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u190	Minister, is the government committed to bringing them down?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u191	I'm not actually going to the point, Mr. Comrade. I'm not actually getting into it. I will agree with you that this is a very serious issue and it needs regulation. Indeed. From 2.30 p.m., when this amendment was tabled with the Minister abroad, will the Minister for Maritime Affairs assume responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u192	I want you to tell us if the government is committed to moving forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u193	Everyone understands this, and even in a process in which we described that this was not the case, and that it was only because a minister had an extremely urgent matter. Let's not pull things that badly. It is a few things that I think they can unite us all in the context of common sense. For God's sake! Finally, humor, Mr Mitaraki, for the ESA was for no other reason, but because we really have a serious text, this memorandum of cooperation in the sea of Greece with China, and you made no reference to it, except that Mr Varvitsiotis signed it. But no mention was made of the Civic Opposition in its contents! So humor was why other things you wanted to say, apart from what this particular reality calls you to say. Finally, Madam President, precisely because Mr Toskas proposed this amendment and was put before the House in order to vote, the draft law that I propose before this House must be differentiated in terms of title and therefore be: 'Determination of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China, on cooperation in the field of maritime affairs and other provisions'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u194	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u195	Again, Mr. Loverdo? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u196	I would like to continue my placement on staff, so that we can close it down. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the National Representation and there is no other programming for anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Loverdo, I think you've exceeded every limit!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u198	Dialogue and criticism are the task of politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u199	You have said about a series of ministers and MPs that are too heavy and you are affected with anything. Look at that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u200	Madam President, I will close in thirty seconds. It is known that a slander is the one disseminating false facts when he knows that this is false. Because the Minister in his "dosing it", I have no reason to insist. I just want to say to him that it is another thing to have a political attitude to one issue and another to give someone something that has not done and to insist on it, even though you know that the truth is different. With regard to the amendment, Minister, the parliamentary control of Friday really had me here, and the minister from the chairs was asking for answers, but not what you said. He said that if he hadn't found another place, he would insisted on the solution of the beach and that at Ruf, which is a solution that Mr. Kammenos gave, he has not gone to see if his buildings are doing and that he will go inspect, to see it. As Mr Karras said very well today, if the buildings are inappropriate or if another activity has to be stopped, to start this, and no other solution is given to it, we have a matter. That is why we say, Minister, that our amendment does not indicate any room for manoeuvring the legal problems of the new area. That would really be inappropriate as a parliamentary and political method on our part. Our amendment abolishes that regulation and enables the government to make any choice and if necessary a law, to come to Parliament. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u201	We understood that. We're done, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u202	You should accept that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u203	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u204	No, I don't give anyone else the reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u205	Madam President, it matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u206	What does it matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u207	It matters because the Minister is missing. Please give me the floor for just one word!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u208	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u209	Because Mr. Paraskevi is absent from the Chamber, I would like to restore reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u210	It characterizes him, the one we're talking about is absent. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u211	I'd like to restore reality. We have all followed this dialogue. I also happened to watch him without being in the Chamber. The Minister has undertaken to take initiatives, resolve the issue differently and then come to announce and develop his legislative initiatives as well. Of course, he ended up with what Mr. Loverd said, but he didn't say he wouldn't. He said he took responsibility for doing so, to change it. That's what he said!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is adjourned: 'Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on cooperation in the field of Maritime Affairs and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u213	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u214	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u215	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Definition of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on Maritime Affairs Cooperation and other provisions" was accepted in the first place by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u216	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u217	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u218	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 433 and a special number 2 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u220	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u224	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 433 and a special 2 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u225	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u226	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u227	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Definition of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on Maritime Affairs Cooperation and Other Provisions" was accepted in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u228	No, Madam President, there is a written request from the New Democracy. In accordance with Article 104(4), you must wait twenty-four hours before you vote on the whole or vote on Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u229	It emerged from the statements that, by a majority, no one accepts this. I'll do it on the spot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u230	Rule 104 does not show the right to the Bureau to discuss it. Only Article 87 on late payment can the House decide to do so. In Rule 104(4), the Bureau is bound to wait twenty-four hours. It is not something that this House can vote on at the moment. Article 104(4) specifically states that, when a whole article is added, we must wait at least twenty-four hours for it to be voted on. It can be voted on, for example, Saturday morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Metarakis, this has happened several times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u232	I don't know if it's happened on several occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u233	I put it to the vote by raise, despite the fact that you are making this request.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u234	Then you will raise a matter of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u235	Who disagrees that Mr Toska's amendment should be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u236	Then the law could be insulted in the board. Is that right? That it has been voted by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure. You're creating a problem with sanction. It is a question of whether it is adopted by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u237	Well, you say you create a prestige problem. I will vote on your request.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u238	Madam President, I would like the Scientific Committee of the Parliament to tell us if we can. Call the Scientific Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u239	All right, let's say it retrospectively, and I take responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u240	He cannot say it retrospectively, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u241	I take responsibility, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u242	Madam President, I beg your pardon, you cannot personally take responsibility. There's a rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u243	And you're yours for what you're doing. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u244	Excuse me, there is a Rules of Parliament, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u245	By lifting, please, the House will decide. Anyone who disagrees with Mr Toska's amendment rises.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u246	It's not for the amendment. It's for the whole. You're confused. The amendment has been accepted. In order to vote on the entire bill, which has three articles now, the body of the bill must be shared. You haven't shared the body. Is there a body? Where is he? Bring it, let's vote. Where is he? What are we voting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u247	Mr Metarakis, it is the contract as it was, plus Mr Toska's amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u248	Oh, no. He always shares the body. Bring it to see. Article 104(1). 4 provides this procedure for the control of the body. This is Parliament's procedure. If you do not want, Madam President, we can close this House. We cannot always ignore the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u249	Good. Then take a break to get the body, see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u250	Good. Break.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u251	Five minutes, then, to get Mr. Metarakis and the others who are interested in visually seeing the body.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u252	The sitting shall be resumed. Mr. Metarakis, did you read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u253	We have read it, Madam President, and thankfully we have read it, because it does not have time. The deadline requested by Mr. Toskas has not been written into the law. ‘31-12’ has been deleted and is written in the second paragraph of Article: ‘The period referred to in Article 132(6) shall be extended until...’ and we have a void. On the paper we were given, the body hasn't written a new date.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u254	It is ‘31-8’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u255	They haven't written it in the body, which would be signed in law. That would be a law, and it wouldn't be a date.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Metarakis, Parliament's services say it's the seal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u257	What seal? The body they gave us is undated. So this body is wrong. Why are we in a hurry to do everything roughly? I don't understand why everything's getting rough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u258	It's the seal. It is normally introduced with the date ‘31-8’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u259	I don't disagree, but I'm telling you that the body hasn't been written.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u260	What exactly do you want, Mr. Metarakis? Do you want us to apply the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u261	I want the body corrected. He was going to the FEK without a date. The body doesn't have a date.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u262	Do you want us to apply the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u263	I do not know, Madam President, you are presiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u264	Tell me, because since 6 p.m. you have a problem with today's meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u265	No, I'm trying to apply...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u266	You take the floor to protect the environment, to listen to the southern coastline. You are giving us lessons of Rules of Procedure and legality. What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u267	The right thing is at the next meeting to be approved in the whole with the right body.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u268	Haven't you heard of '31-8'? Didn't you see the introduction of the '31-8' issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u269	Insert ‘31-8’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u270	In the body he shared, it did not appear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u271	Aren't you criticizing '31-8'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u272	Mr Metarakis, '31-8'. If something doesn't look good...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u273	Do it as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u274	The agency will once again say '31-8'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u275	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u276	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u277	Madam President, the representative of the Officerial Representation raises a typical issue. Regulations and laws, yes, they do indeed have to be respected in their essence. The relevant Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure provides, in fact, that, when articles or large-scale legislative improvements are added to a bill, it is possible to ensure that the Parliament understands all those which have already been voted on in principle and on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u278	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u279	Here, then, we have a ministerial amendment with signature - seal, with the General Accounting Office of the State, which states the date '31-8'. We don't have a lot of rules. One amendment was tabled and debated. The word was given to those who wanted him. It was investigated by the House. The House has been informed. And we now come to the formal question of whether the vote on the whole will take place after a 24 hours, that is to say, if the House is to be given the opportunity to understand what you have all understood, and you and everyone. There's no one here to say he doesn't know what he's voting for. That is the benefit of the Rules of Procedure. Why, Mr. Metarakis? If you want to defend the Rules of Procedure, I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u280	I have no other reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u281	If you want to sabotage the government work, I don't understand it and I don't believe that you want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u282	No, I don't want that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u283	I can't believe it. Madam President, I think that the Bureau can normally proceed with the voting process as a whole today. That's not what this is all about. It does not suffer from legislative, legislative or legislative problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u284	We're going to distribute the exact date anyway. Thank you, Minister. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u285	Yeah, with the correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u286	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u287	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u288	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy: ‘Principle of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China on Maritime Cooperation and Other Provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u289	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to empower the Bureau and to have the Minutes ratified in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u290	Therefore, the House granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-17-S1-commons.u291	With the consent of the House at 20.28 minutes, the sitting on Thursday, May 19, 2016 at 9.30', on the subject of the proceedings of the House is closed: (a) a special plenary session on the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greek Population of the Pontum and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate.
