ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's authorisation from 26-7-2016, the minutes of the PXTH meeting on Tuesday 26 July 2016 were confirmed by the Bureau.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK To discuss and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendments to the National Customs Code to strengthen the fight against illicit trade in tobacco and manufactured tobacco and the establishment of a Coordinating Centre for the Combating of Smuggling, the harmonisation of Greek legislation to Council Decision 2009/917/JHA of 30 November 2009 on the use of information technology for customs purposes and other provisions of the Ministry of Finance and the transposition into national legislation of Articles 15, 16 and 18 of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 20 July 2016 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, single on the principle, articles and amendments. Before we start, I want to read you a request. Congressman Chrysula Katsavria - Sioropoulou asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad, from Saturday 30 July 2016 to Friday 5 August 2016, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u3	Madam President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u4	Yeah, if you want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Because, as you said, the debate is uniform and because all night it was raining amendments that we have not had time to study, will you give us the possibility of dentistry, at least, to read them so that this House can know what it is voting on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u6	I think we'll have a comfort of time, not a dentist. But we will see that in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u7	Excuse me, Madam President. I'll have to make my suggestion in a quarter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u8	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u9	As I said, amendments have been tabled, whole bills. I don't have time to read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u10	Okay. If you have not studied it, Mr Kutsuko, we will obviously give you the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Because the amendments are irrelevant to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u12	I know. Isn't that always the case? What to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u13	We had amendments until last night.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u14	Yeah, I know. Last night they were distributed. I know that. That's why there's gonna be a flexibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u15	Can I say something, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u16	What do you want, Mr. Mada?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u17	Perhaps for the Economics Ministry's amendments concerning Mr Alexiadis, it would be helpful to mention them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u18	Tell them orally before we start?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u19	Yes, because that is important to the rapporteurs too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u20	I don't know. Will you support them, Mr Alexiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u21	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u22	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u23	You have the floor, Mr Anastasiades.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u24	Since we are aware that other amendments, other than the Ministry of Finance, will come, I would also ask for what Mr Koutsoukos has asked for, to be able to take place. Because you realise that we cannot see them and know them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u25	Okay. The ministers will come anyway, so you won't have heard of them when you first speak. It is reasonable, when you hear them, to have to be placed. So we're starting with Mr. Alexiadis. I'll give you two-three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. I will need a little more, because of the two amendments, the latter has several provisions in place. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 570 and a special 106, which relates to fines, the Ministry of Finance responded to the requests made by the institutions and to the many complaints made by Members in relation to the fines applicable for this period. And so, by means of a provision we have brought from 25-7 onwards, as the amendment stipulates, the procedure for imposing fines is changing. That is to say, it amends the relevant provision of the tax procedure code and we now anticipate a financial fine of EUR 250 for companies that have a simplified system, namely companies that have a turnover of approximately 1.5 million, of individual UN, EU and other criteria which are simplified. Those who have a duplicate, that is, the big companies, the AE, the EIA and more than 1.5 million, the minimum fine that we will have per control will be EUR 500. This makes it easier for the fine procedure, because we had cases where the minimum fine for the non-issuance of a EUR 1,000 item was about EUR 110-120. The notion of such relapse infringements by doubling and quadrupling the fines for the latter and subsequent checks is introduced. In other words, there is a lower fine for any control. Because we had audits that testified 10, 20 euros and did not even catch the auditors' travels. And secondly, the fine is multiplying in relapsing and relapsing. In the argument that this does not work here that there are cases where there are no VAT, doctors, caregivers, etc., we say that this is going to deal with the problems of the summer period of the checks that are already going on and will become much more and aim to start from the big and very large cases and then go to the small and the smaller ones. In other words, we are starting checks from the exact entertainment and accommodation areas and not from the canteens, cafes, cheese shops and sulavenders. We will also go to these, but after we have been able to cover the big business and the big business. The second amendment is the amendment - which has several articles - with a general number of 585 and a special 109. We are doing the following with this amendment. We solve specific issues that we had as unfinished issues at the Ministry of Finance. It did not come with the original provision - because it will be heard as an argument and I would like to reply well - because the negotiation process had to be completed and this process was completed and it is now coming as an amendment. With Article 1, we solve the problem of multiple retention of 3%. I mean, we had a technical project, there was a 3% withholding on the one who took the project. The person who took the project gave another contractor part of the project and thus again withholding 3%. The second contractor could've given a third party, and there was another 3% withholding. It was an insanity. This absurdity is resolved and so we resolve the issue of the multiple retention of 3%. With Article 2, we extend the exemption from registration fee for cars, vehicles, etc. They are mostly ambulances, special mobile units for health issues. We have too many cases that due to the refugee and humanitarian crisis in Greece, international bodies, embassies, states come and donate to Greece ambulances and various vehicles for special needs. In these cases we had the problem that a registration fee should be imposed. With this provision we come and make it clear that there will be no end to classification in cases where we have donations for such vehicles. It will therefore be easier to move this process forward. With Article 3, we are responding to a request from many productive players and also political parties on the issue of tax certificates. The tax certificate is an institution which has helped tax services. We extend the tax certificate, because we have within 2016 and 2017 specific prioritising and targeting as far as the checks we want to do are concerned. The tax certificate will give us a good database and allow tax services to better target large tax evasion cases. Article 4 concerns the institutions of the tax administration responsible for prioritising cases. We do not want to have the old procedure where almost all the cases were brought out for inspection and each auditor had 110-120 cases and the criterion of what they would check was the year of limitation. We now want to go into procedures with risk analysis systems and other systems where we can prioritise and choose on specific transparent criteria what assumptions we will control. But in order not to have disciplinary, criminal problems, we are able to cover the officials of the tax administration who will choose these cases. With Article 5 we allow the Special Secretariat of the ILO, which no longer has fiscal and customs powers, to assist the work of other audit services, such as the General Secretariat of Trade, the General Secretariat of the Consumer, the General Secretariat of Industry, the Directorates for Development of the Regions, the LAGs, the Port Authority, to extend the IMO, to have more powers for audits and to assist these services. Article 5 provides for the final period for the payment of income tax for specific categories of natural persons. For some natural persons, such as residents abroad or other cases, may have submitted their statement - legally, not illegally, not late in December. In other words, someone who has made a statement, had problems with his statement, invited him to check on the DU and finally submit his statement in December or other cases of foreign residents. In these cases we solve problems and relieve citizens. With regard to Article 7, we are prolonging the application of more favourable tax rates for Euro 5 passenger cars. I would like to make it clear that the proposed provisions still allow less polluting second-hand cars to be marketed with lower rates of registration. Article 8 implements the second phase of the transfer of the GFCM cases to the GFCF. You remember that there was a lot of noise about what was going to happen with the cases that had remained at the ILO, that they would be deleted, that they would be lost, etc. There's nothing like that. The cases that have remained in the ILO and need to be transferred to the GFCM on account of competence are transferred. And, in order not to worry, the limitation of these cases is extended by only three years. They will go to the GDR, they will be prioritised, they will be chosen for control and the control will proceed. Article 9 deals with issues relating to the choices of heads of government in GATT. With Article 10, we are dealing with a business tax exemption. In other words, it concerns only goodwill, the transfer of shares in real estate investment companies that were not listed on the Athens Stock Exchange. With Article 11 we are solved - and it is an article which, I think, fills all of us with joy - the subject of supplementary tax on agricultural parcels for natural persons. We say that no additional tax will be calculated for the ENPI of 2016 on the agricultural parcels of natural persons. The first dose for ENVY will be September 2016, so that no citizens will have, that is, any problems and that they can get in until then and make corrections to the E9 because we have found that in many cases it was wrong to register elements of the parcels in E9. I have said such examples before, and I will say them more thoroughly after my speech. This is why the first dose of ENVY will start in September 2016 and the last one will be January 2017. The previous law, I would remind you, predicted that HNPH is in monthly instalments starting next month of liquidation. These two amendments, so that the debate can begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u28	Madam President, I would like to ask the floor for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u29	Now? For these amendments? I think it won't help, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u30	Two things, two simple questions for these amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u31	Come on, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u32	Minister, may I ask for clarification in relation to the registration fees: the hybrid cars where they are located, in what category are you okay with them? Secondly, for Amendment No 570, to reduce the fines you have told us, it remains that fines will be imposed by fiscal control, both for simplistics and for bibliographical books. This is important. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u33	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u34	On the matter of hybrid cars, I will answer you, precisely because it is a special matter and I cannot tell you right now. For the issue of fines it is not EUR 250 per infringement, it is per inspection. This will double, reach the quadruple in every next check.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u35	Mrs Papanatsiou, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate that took place in the last few days during the committees, we have seen that not all sides are at first sight opposed to this draft law. This alone is an indication that the war against smuggling can have a future and produce fair results. Greece, unfortunately, has a remarkable place in the smuggling of tobacco. The country has some special features. In particular, its geographical position is a hub for trade, so also for smuggling. Some others, however, need deepening, analysis and change of strategy. The fragmented institutional framework and the respective agencies have left little scope for success to the authorities. By combining the two characteristics it is not surprising that the studies show smuggling cigarettes to hold a stable large part of the total market. I will give you some indicative figures, so that we can have a detailed picture of what we are trying to deal with. In a recent ‘KPMG’ study, conducted every year since 2006 in all the countries of the European Union, it is clear that in Greece illegal tobacco trade continued to be particularly high. Greece is in the fourth pan-European and proportional position with the revenue foregone behind Latvia, Norway and Lithuania. Smuggling cigarettes in our country account for over 20% of the total market, when the pan-European average is close to 10%. This investigation estimated that in Greece the taxes in question from the illegal cigarette trade in 2015 approached around EUR 637 million. According to the ‘KPMG’ survey, 50 billion illegal cigarettes were consumed in 2015 in the European Union, representing 9.8% of total consumption. Our country also holds the second 'illicit whites' consumption in the European Union. Millicit whites are cigarettes which are usually legally produced in one country, mainly for the purpose of smuggling them to other countries. It is therefore easy to conclude that the illegal market in cigarettes is depriving the states of considerable revenue, which, in particular, in a time of crisis, are very much in need of them. In 2015, the corresponding taxes and duties corresponding to the total seized cigarette cuts amount to EUR 114,544.016. A total of 630.801.892 pieces were seized. Here it is sufficient for a comparative analysis in the period 2013-2015 to see the seriousness of the draft law on increasing control. In 2013, the quantities seized by all services corresponded to 449.205.077 pieces. In 2014 they corresponded to 425.793.048 and in 2015 to 630.801.892 pieces. We note, therefore, that in two years 2013-2014 there is a 7.28% reduction due to declining customs and services due to the policies at the time applied. In 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u37	Now we've changed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u38	Colleague, they really didn't change, but for us, the understanding of the added value of control in the fight against the phenomenon of smuggling was our first goal, which is why we have an increase of 48.15%. Smuggling of tobacco products has been an illegal activity so far and offers high profits with low risk, which has been an attractive combination. Here, at the level of tax loss, we must all have in mind that the more smuggling increases the State's revenues. The big question raised fairly is that, when there are so many studies, so many forecasts of the size of the taxes lost by analogy, why have the governors and the rulers so far not done anything about this? This bill therefore comes to modernise and unite the existing network, combining newly created structures. The draft law therefore consists of three parts and fifty one articles. The logic of the bill is to try to combat smuggling, but with an overall approach, with a specific framework and with services that will now provide know-how and international cooperation. The aim is to monitor the product from the field to the factory and from there to the last economic operator involved in the process. The first part of the bill includes changes to the Customs Code to enhance the fight against trafficking in tobacco and manufactured tobacco. It also provides for the incorporation into the Greek legislation of Articles 15, 16 and 18 of Directive 2014/40 of the European Union. In this context, it is established for the first time by the Single Central Register for the Supply Chain of Tobacco and Industrious Tobacco. The Single Central Register for the Supply of Smoking and Industrialised Tobacco Chain will follow the product throughout the production and movement chain held on ICISnet. At the same time, the complete logistic chain shall be recorded and a unique identifier shall be provided for each tobacco product. The Register Number is provided for all licenses and it is compulsory to be registered at all stages of the movement. With these two steps, but also in conjunction with the incorporation into the Greek legislation of Article 18 of the European Directive, Article 5 of the draft law on traceability, a comprehensive control framework is established, which monitors the product throughout its course. The coordinating operational centre is established, which will operate as an information hub and will be referred to the Interministerial Committee, and its main objective will be the joint cooperation of all the audit bodies. On the basis of this operation of the Coordinating Business Centre, which will operate as an information hub and will refer to an Interministerial Committee, the main objective here will be the joint cooperation of all the audit bodies. On the basis of this function, therefore, the obligation of the licensed tobacco industries, laboratories and importers from third countries is established on a monthly basis on e-commerce. In addition, it will not only be a monitoring body for tobacco products, but also for those subject to excise duty, such as alcoholic beverages and fuels. The new draft also provides for the purchase of electrically heated tobacco. There is therefore a excise duty on tobacco in the new type of electronically heated product. The predictability of the arrangement is provided for and the case where the product has a negative impact on revenues due to a large part of the market coverage. In this case, the rate of excise duty fixed will be increased. In the second part of the law, we have incorporated into our national network of Council Decision 2008/917 on the use of computers for customs purposes. Specifically, the use of the Customs Information System is being extended and modernised. The new operational framework to come is complemented and promoted with the country's cooperation framework with EUROPOL and EUROJUST, with regard to the use of data from the Customs Information System. The new design will create a new database that will form a information bank for serious infringements and will cover sources and records for investigations conducted or conducted. A new database of the cases that will have been checked, codified and facilitate the work of the competent authorities and services is essentially set up. This file of customs investigations illustrates the pan-European effort to combat smuggling. Finally, in the third part of the draft law we have amendments to the Code on Tax Procedure, with a view to simplifying procedures. I mention, for example, the change in the regulation on charges for used cars, the correction of the distorting provision for the calculation of fees and their safeguarding, based on their registration day in Greece. The traffic charges will now be calculated on the basis of the year they were first released in a European Union country. They will thus be taxed on the basis of old times and there will be a reduction in traffic charges paid. An important and necessary facility is provided to the residents of the outside for the alleged action, as the limit of the days of deposit is increased from thirty to sixty days. In addition, fines are no longer imposed for changes in the individual elements of natural persons, such as the date of marriage, since, anyway, natural persons in any conciliation with the tax administration will be able to declare such changes. At the same time, fines are increased for interventions in cash machines or even for evidence without complying with the criteria and standards laid down. A fine of EUR 500 is now laid down for proof issued without a tax cash-pool or a cash-pool which is not authorised. Fines from EUR 5,000 to EUR 30,000 are still available for those who violate tax cash. There is also a fine of EUR 1,000 to EUR 10,000 and EUR 200,000 to the persons of the tax administration who violate tax confidentiality or disclose confidential information. Appropriate protection shall also be provided in the course of the investigation of tax cases, where the auditors' entry into the taxpayer's residence will be carried out only on the basis of a prosecutor's mandate and the audit will be carried out only in the presence of a judicial officer. In addition, by regulation, which gives the administration the right to review a case, only if it is found that the tax debt goes beyond the original one, we are looking forward to ending the insecure reductions in debts, which, unfortunately, have been allowed in the past. It is clear that the special VAT refund scheme is subject to farmers' supplies of goods of up to EUR 15 000 and subsidies of up to EUR 5 000. The change, which occurs, concerns farmers of special status who have other professional activities. Finally, they now fall under the normal scheme. The supplies of goods also include deliveries from farmers under the special scheme to farmers under the special scheme. At the same time, the length of stay is reduced from five years to three years for voluntary admission to the normal scheme. I would also like to refer to the amendment, which Mr Alexiadis referred to. I believe that the amendment is in a positive direction with the change of fines, as well as the multiple retention of 3% of the tax withheld by technical companies, which is no longer considered appropriate to exist and it is good to offset it. Also, in the social section, which deals with the donation of ambulances, firearms and cars, it is appropriate to abolish the registration fee and thus facilitate donation. The extension of the tax certificate is also in the positive direction. I consider it very important that the abolition of the additional tax for the agricultural parcels for 2016 and for the dose of ENPI, which starts in September 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that a grid is being built, which is inextricably linked between structures and services, a grid which combines old and new structures to facilitate and benefit the control services. At the same time, we must point out that the abovementioned services and structures, established by this draft law, come fully in line with the pan-European frameworks. The monitoring of tobacco products from the beginning of the procedure up to and including during promotion to the final buyer remains the point where control should focus. The government has shown its intention to clash with old concepts in the field of tax evasion and, more generally, corruption. This bill is another port in this process of Europeanisation and returning to healthy entrepreneurship and respect for legality. Late and diligent legislation, which closes the eye to irregularities, slowly ends. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I'll be out in a minute. However, this bill will also be the backbone for other similar, associated with the fight against smuggling. Already the services, which are set up in the single centre and in the coordination centre, in the TEC, are landmarks and reserves. Finally, I would like to point out that the government has been trying to build the most difficult and complex part of the economy since the beginning. This logic begins with the fight against tax evasion and the equilibrium of operational institutional framework errors. The bill is part of the government's overall view of dealing with both the paramilitary and tax evasion and corruption. The government has shown intentions: the lists are controlled, the laws are being speeded up, the examinations go ahead and reveal a number of truths. Let's make a new start and let's all get together in it. Tax policy and the fight against smuggling and corruption can bring moral justice to the Greek citizen. At the same time, because of the classic sign that distinguishes the policies behind these concepts, we have to win this fight for the people, for the conversion of income into social policy and for the financial relief of our workers, the unemployed and our young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u39	Mr Anastasiades, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. I would also remind you of the request for the amendments, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's plenary session, the debate on the draft law amending the National Customs Code, strengthening the fight against smuggling of tobacco and tobacco products, integrating Articles 15, 16 and 18 of Directive 40/2014 and other provisions, mainly of fiscal interest. It is, in our view, a very important bill, but it is very rough and fragmented. So the results you expect, Minister, will perhaps not be what you expect. We in this effort have been critical but creative, with positions and proposals, as stated by the seriousness and responsibility of our party. We insist on fragmentation, Mr Minister, because you too have admitted it. It is characteristic that your word has been revived at the second reading of the bill in committee. You say there, among other things: "Let me mention that the bill is part of a comprehensive plan. It does not solve all the problems,” and so on. What you are saying is not a confirmation of what we are pointing out, that is, fragmentation? Mr Minister, we repeat this today - Directive 40 of 2016 should have been introduced for ratification. Because the debate would have been more complete and the expected results we believe would have been better. When drafting the draft law, the requirements of the Union Customs Code, which our country already applies, should have been taken into account. In other words, since the Union Customs Code provides for and imposes cooperation between the administration and economic operators, you should have taken the participation of a representative of economic operators in the Coordinating Operational Centre referred to in Article 6. The financial interest of the country is better served by participation in this institution by the certified customs representative - we have also told the committees - because the customs representative has the guarantee of solvency, knowledge and experience, and its contribution to the efforts to increase revenues, to combat tax evasion and to protect society and the security of citizens would be very important. Because it can have direct data, cross them, verify them and compare them. So you would have avoided the timeless communication process between the services. Therefore, the work of the coordinating body would be easier, more substantial and more effective. Because his participation is provided for by the Union Customs Code, you can be sure, Minister, that we will be imposed on him. You, however, lose the opportunity to be the rapporteur for a groundbreaking piece of legislation. We have also told the committee that in the supply chain referred to in Article 1 of the bill the farmer must be authorised and in paragraph 1 of Article 3 there is no need to provide, as part of suppliers in licensed industries with all kinds of materials and services, only those relating to the production of tobacco products. A problem arises in the provision for the necessary equipment for the registration of tobacco products. Article 5(6) for traceability provides that such equipment shall be provided by tobacco manufacturers and paragraph 7 of that Article provides that tobacco manufacturers and importers shall conclude contracts for data storage with an independent third party in order to host the data storage unit. This contradicts the provisions of the Protocol, the Framework Convention of the World Health Organisation for Tobacco. There it is foreseen that each Member State should install the traceability system and have control over the whole territory. So while, Minister, you do not accept a representative of economic operators and customs representatives at the coordinating operational centre because, as you said, you cannot take part in private business, you accept the involvement of the tobacco industry, namely private individuals, the traceability of tobacco products and the preservation and storage of data by a private person. Aren't these two contradictory? Ladies and gentlemen, dealing with the smuggling of tobacco products and smuggling in general must be very high in all our priorities and, of course, very high in the priorities of our prolongation. It's a tough fight against economic crime over and over parties. It is about society, it is about all of us, and today we are taking part in this debate with the appropriate seriousness. The ineffective treatment of smuggling to date is mainly due to the division of the object. The overlapping of the responsibilities of the various prosecuting services, the under-representation of human resources, the absence of modern technology equipment, and the lack of evaluation and training of staff. Your heavy promises to arrest the smuggling, Minister, proved empty content and lack seriousness. The fight against smuggling requires will and bold initiatives. We have already tabled some of them in the debate on this bill. Of course, they need partnership and seriousness. And compared to what the previous ones did, Minister, I think it's unfortunate. The others were judged. But now you're judging. Because you promised everything and created great expectations. Compare what you promised to be Opposition. With your studies and the 'Marda' and other executives' theoretical approaches that you flagged the fight against smuggling. Comparable with them! The political specula and false announcements do not lead anywhere and do not benefit the country. And in this piece of legislation too, Minister, it turns out that the administration cannot escape your bureaucratic attitude. You do not take into account that every legislative initiative should be addressed and benefiting society. You do not dare to create a framework for protecting healthy trade and competition that will ultimately help growth. In our view - which we are putting forward again today - Article 6 should have been the subject of a special legislative initiative, which is more perfect, more sound and studied with a substantial aim and aim of eliminating competition from prosecution services, the concentration of a fragmented duty to prosecute smuggle into a truly effective, coordinated, operational centre with debate on all products subject to excise duty and not just tobacco. Our appreciation is that you won't make much. I wish we could be disproved for the sake of the public interest. The second chapter of the bill refers to the harmonisation of Greek legislation on the use of information technology for customs purposes. In view of the new conditions created and the globalised market environment, we urge, Mr Minister, the Government for rapid harmonisation and full and proper use of information technology, with a view to combating lawlessness and infringibility and always with a view to the national interest. In the provisions of Part Three of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, the sloppyness with which the government legislates is attributes is reflected. You have been obliged, Minister, to retreat and retreat. Whether under the general outcry and our pressure you have retreated and withdrawn Article 49, which abolished tax evasions in weak social groups, such as the unemployed, the disabled, the polyteces and the third-party families, regardless of whether you had to exclude the agricultural parcels from the supplementary tax, HNPIA, the additional charges that you imposed remain high. The notorious ENPI, who could not change Mr Tsipras's statement before the January 2015 elections, is not corrected, he said, but is abolished - it remains. Not only was it not abolished, but it increased. The new parameters which you have imposed, Mr Minister, are a panic for the citizens, because they are heavy burdens. The new "passengers" of HNVY will include charges for about six hundred thousand property owners. In non-electrical property where, until last year, the owners had a 20% discount, you abolish it this year, the property used for the production or pursuit of all kinds of business have ceased to be exempted from the supplementary ENPY. While the supplementary tax until last year only concerned those with an objective real estate of more than EUR 300,000, it will henceforth be imposed on owners with real estate of more than EUR 200,000. I mean, the limit is reduced. The coefficients increased, the tiles changed and come the tops. The new traffic charges under Article 46, Minister, create confusion, reductions, increases and inequality, while evidently the Government's attempt to create a party army, with regard to the clean-ups under Article 48, is made. I asked the Committee for a debate, Minister, for comparative information to see if this procedure is of public interest. You didn't bring me any physical evidence because it's not a public interest, it's only a good interest in your party. We hoped, Minister, that in this bill - so it seemed - no amendments would have been introduced. But you didn't take the temptation. You have now changed your way of legislating. You are mainly legislated by legislative acts and amendments. An alalum is the government, if we judge it by the way it legislates. As far as - I am concerned, why are the others not - the amendment number 570 - we will see the others and then - I would like to point out the following, Mr Minister: Did it take nine and a half months to see that it was wrong to abolish and not to impose an autonomous fine for not issuing tax data on transactions and instead of imposing a fine equal to 50% of the corresponding VAT rate on the transaction introduced by No 4337/2015? In the proposed change in the article, the mistake that you are trying to correct with this amendment, you are doing so again in the wrong way. And I would like to explain that fines are imposed in accordance with paragraph 1 of the amendment not to issue a tax item on VAT-free operations and that 50% of the tax in question is covered by a fine of EUR 250 for the simplification system and EUR 500 for the folding system, distributed with the elements of the first, second, third and fourth relapse and with double, threefold, four times a fine. Minister, tell me what you will answer to the first taxpayer for good administration and the rules of proportionality and all that you express in your cartoons. Tell us what economic, mathematical, proportional model or other study is based on the amendment you bring. What will you answer to your colleagues on the morality of the above-mentioned treatment of fines? On the same subject, a different approach? That is how you demand, Minister, and the tax services. Because you, while you know it, continue to insist on correcting the error by another mistake. Obviously it is the government's will - and you said so in your protagonist - to deal with fines and not wrong, since your experience in tax law is well known. In order to prevent you - because I saw it in your Ministry's circular - the collection of statistical data in order to carry out checks on offenders with indirect control techniques, irrespective of the fines imposed, leave them, because they only concern natural persons. And, of course, everyone is suspected now and the proceeds of tax evasion do not appear in the banking system, as is shown by a study by the Bank of Greece. It is also very important, Minister, that we stick to the practice of the government of how it perceives the functioning of the law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. While we are in the process of legislating the proposed change, we are informed by the media that it was signed by the Secretary-General of Public Revenue Circular, with which the new fines are applied since 25 July 2016. This is what we will be working on today in this debate in the legislature. You inaugurate a practice that is incomprehensible and unprecedented. This has never happened, and of course we are voting against this amendment for the reasons I mentioned, Minister. The government, ladies and gentlemen, claims to be the gafazier's title. It is the 'Government Gafa'. The stitches were drying up and her resets aren't over. Panics run to gather the gave of ENVIA. They do the same for farmers who were part of the special scheme. They do the same for imposing fines on tax violations. And all this, Mr Minister, you are doing it again with the wrong speeches, with a new gafa, so that you can run again in a few minutes to fix these too. And you still have the nerve to claim infallibility. You are a “Babylonian”. Of course, we knew that and we will not stop at every opportunity to remind both you and the Greek people of what you were saying. We knew that the Left's ability is only exhausted in theory, fine words and false promises. In the theory, your sensitivity to the unreserved - and this is proven - is being exhausted and your sensitivity to justice. Now all this is felt by the Greek people and society. Because all this is good, until the time of application is right, the moment of reality. It's all over there. They're finishing the lies, too. And especially all that ends when you have to lie. And you, Minister, only lied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u41	Mr Karakostas, rapporteur for the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u42	First of all, I would like to point out something which we also stressed in the committee and which was confirmed by the hearing of the bodies: this is a bill, which is a timely one, because the final date for the adoption of the directive was 20 May. The question was raised in committee concerning the other articles of the directive which are not incorporated into this draft law and are introduced by a different draft law, the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. All this proves the curiosity with which you are legislating, since you do not at all guarantee the unity of the law and are burdening an already possessing legal system. You do not provide legal certainty to the Greek citizen, since every quarter you are bringing amending provisions of the legislation already adopted by you. The argument, which may be suggested, is that the articles of the directive which are not imported are the responsibility of another Ministry and are irrelevant to the existing one, is already being dismantled when you choose to incorporate provisions of purely fiscal law into Greek law a directive to combat smuggling of tobacco products. Once again we become societies of irrationality and destructive ambiguity, which characterises the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. We are called upon to vote on an abortion bill, a bill containing provisions to combat smuggling of tobacco. It contains provisions for the use of computers for customs purposes. It also contains provisions for the harmonisation of Greek legislation with Directive 2014/40, as well as provisions for the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, which of course come to harmonize the average Greek citizen, who is now unsuspected to go the way of witnessing and enthusiasm on the part of your Memorandum of Understanding. The overtaxation of tobacco products - and we have said so in the debate in the committee - is the number one factor in strengthening smuggling. The bodies invited to the committee were clear: Smuggling blossoms and the draft law in its current form avoids dealing with this problem, which, if anything, causes losses of billions of euros on public revenue. It was reported that the profit of smugglers alone in the center of Athens amounts to EUR 30 million a year. Therefore, the loss of revenue for the Greek state amounts to 1 billion, when the corresponding leak for the whole of the European Union is estimated at EUR 17 billion. Is everyone aware of what? That the size of the smuggling phenomenon in Greece is huge. The fight against smuggling of tobacco and related products is indeed a problem that arouses the economy and we must note that it has been particularly acute since the country's final delivery to illegal immigrants. It is well known that the favourite occupation of part of illegal immigrants is the sale of smuggled cigarettes in many neighborhoods of Athens and also in the center of the city. For example, on Stournaris Street, near the Polytechnic, cigarettes are smuggled daily under the tolerance of authorities, which, although informed in this regard, do not appear to be capable of hitting crime at birth. Instead, the Government comes, after years of improper action by it and its predecessors, to take measures against smuggling in the context of the harmonization of national legislation by means of Community directives. We read in the bill on the establishment of a coordinating centre, supervisory authorities, personal and other data recordings that will be kept in the archives for a decade and we normally freak out. We realise that we are going through the era of complete data digitisation and should therefore accept the establishment and legalisation of all these principles that are set out in the motion for a resolution. Our own beliefs, however, stress a different form of perception of things and legislative operation. We believe that the arrangements for combating smuggling are imposed by Brussels, without a substantial assessment of the problem of smuggling, which takes place within the geographical limits of Greece. In our opinion, we are dealing with a shameful commitment and exploitation of personal and general data within the framework of global governance, which you are evangelizing and promoting all parties of the Greek Parliament, except for the Golden Dawn. The clear involvement of EUROPOL and EUROJUST, which will have direct access to the relevant electronic registers and databases, is allegedly intended to combat smuggling. Big liar! It is simply a question of the legitimate interception by the central European government of all those data they need to obtain and maintain full control of the market. For the rest, we have to say: you have too much nerve to vote on unrelated legislation, which deals with the application of memoranda of arrangements in the tax system. Also, to mention that the bill introduces arrangements for the recruitment of cleaners with six-month contracts. Does that remind you of anything? Who told you that by increasing - and returning to tobacco products - the tobacco tax will automatically increase revenue? Do you not realize that this practice will finally turn even more towards the smuggling of cigarettes? If there was indeed a more general strategic planning, which would also include combating such phenomena, then it is estimated that the country would save up to EUR 1 billion a year. But that's never gonna happen. In addition, illegal tobacco trade has two aspects. On the one hand, there are the aims of the interconnected policies at a pan-European level and, on the other, there is the overriding role of the large tobacco industries. In this process the only loser is the retailers of tobacco products, as weak market rings have become. The next issue concerns the amendment of the Customs Code. We will not go into details. But what we want to note is that it is not enough to update and amend the institutional framework. At the hearing of the institutions, it was clearly stated that their staff were in half that year 2012. Indicative of the impossibility or reluctance of the government to smuggle smuggling, therefore, is the fact that even customs representatives pointed out the unfairness of overtaxation, which leads to smuggling combined with the inability to control intra-Community trade and ultimately to deal with organised economic crime. Customs themselves said that customs officials from four thousand in 2012 have now decreased to two thousand, clear indication of the degree of will of the Ministry and the state as a whole to smuggle smuggling. What customs officials have told us is that the organized economic crime is throwing parties in Greece and that is why tobacco producers certainly do not have the tobacco producers, the retailers, but the incompetent state itself. These units are in the front line. They bring the largest load, and yet they are declining to human staff and logistics, and I am referring to the customs. When the role of the customs office has deteriorated over time, it is certain that there will be an evasion of revenue in the State and that any entry into Greece will become perforated in any infringement activity. Societies, like professionals, have voiced their objections and stressed the problems of the economic export activity of businesses and the incomplete control system, which now leaves the scope of action free of charge to individuals or smugglers of certain kinds. Finally, I cannot focus on the deep hypocrisy of your Government regarding your supposed social policy. You represent the humanists, but your humanism is entirely selective. And since he is selective, according to your logic, he is racist, because I must remind you of your reactions when the People's Association - Golden Dawn organized food distributions to our most deprived compatriots. Then politicians and various journalistic lacquers went out on television and talked about masses of hate. That's your humanism. It is not possible, therefore, to have the intention of abolishing the discount even for socially vulnerable groups of Greeks or saying it more simply, for social groups in need of special state care, such as multi-texts, such as disabled people, and at the same time to enter, with Article 50, the VAT exemption and retroactively the exemption from 1-12-2015 in the case of the supply of goods and services to organisations and organisations, which aim to meet the needs of refugees. How much will your selective sensitivity and whose interests are you really serving to the Greek people at last cost? So I ask again this question to the Government and the Minister: who will pay the Marble of this VAT exemption? In which professional sector or in which social group will this burden be passed on? What are the equivalents you have placed on your partners in order to proceed with this provocative action for Greek VAT exemption for anti-racism professionals, who are getting rich in illegal immigration flows? For these reasons, the People's Association - Golden Dawn naturally votes against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u43	Madam President, I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u44	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u45	In order not to go back to Article 49 and paragraphs 3 and 4 concerning the exemptions or discounts from HICP, I would like to say that the article has been voted on in committee. We could not bring it in an amendment. With legislative improvement currently being made and coming, paragraphs 3 and 4 will be removed from Article 49, which provided that those with deposit interest income of EUR 300 or 600 per case will not be deducted or exempted from HNVY. Paragraphs 3 and 4 will be removed by means of legislative improvement, which is coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u46	Mr Koutsoukos, rapporteur for the PASOK-DMAR Democratic Association, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Like the 'hotja cover' you have made fiscal policy, Minister. After you turned HOPIA into a sickly tank, with the provisions that we voted on here about two months ago - the law that you introduced, L.4389 - you grew up with six important changes in the basis of calculation and charged both the parcels and the professional facilities. And we talked to you then, but you didn't listen. Mr. Juliarakis told us that only six hundred thousand will be charged as you have reduced the objective prices. And we told him Mr. Juliarakis that the objective values have not been reduced in the region, the province, where the zones are below EUR 600. So now it seems that you made a print and took you out "false" and bring you corrections here and say that it is the pleasure of the Minister, the joy that cannot be hidden. And now you've just withdrawn the device, the other sick-bore-bore-bore-bore, under acute criticism. Isn't that Hoja's cover? You terrorize them, and then you're supposed to make something happy for them? And please very much, we had an institutional bill. We have said that we will vote on this at first reading because it concerns provisions aimed at hitting smuggling and tax evasion on tobacco products. And since yesterday's evening, it is 'blue' amendments. It has a third part with other tax provisions, so we are discussing a tax bill. I would like to remind you that when we discussed Law4337 here, you have again recommended - and indeed the SYRIZA colleagues also celebrated - that we abolish fines for not issuing proofs. And we told you the example of what does not issue proof and will pay half a fine. And now you are bringing an amendment to correct it. You told us when you presented it that you responded to requests from operators. I do not know anyone who says'send me fines'. In any case, in the criticism of ours and Members of Parliament, even yours, you have responded. Again legislate in fragments. You have been saying that you have a target for summer checks, because you go to justify why no fines will be imposed on non-publishers, on those who are not subject to VAT and are exempted, such as doctors, and so on. And this isn't a fragmentary arrangement? What my colleague told you earlier that the General Secretariat and the fines are being applied without having voted on the provisions is legal? In any case, as far as I've been able to see from what you brought us last night, I see that you are transferring the cases from the ILO to the Special Secretariat. We had pointed out that we had thirty-five thousand cases, and they're out of control. The taxable matter is gone. The provision for the three-year extension of the non-delete has been checked? I am in favour of non-registration, but I read yesterday that a decision of the Council of State has been taken which has justified a lasting citizen and raised questions of legal certainty. Have you checked these, or will we again be in charge of charging the tax services tens of thousands or even millions of euros, and on the basis of this reciprocity some are entitled? I mean, we do a hole in the water. Tax policy wants to be serious. That is why, Madam President, I said that it has also brought amendments and we have not had time to see them. The non-criminal and civil liability of the employees who will make the choices of the cases, you had brought it back again, if I remember well and you took it back. You said he was intruding. Now have you studied her? There are also a number of other topics. What about the supervisors who have reached the selection criteria? I don't understand all this. In any case, we will study them during the debate, as long as we can and will be more detailed. I say, therefore, that with these amendments you have tabled and with the provisions of Chapter Three, you have transformed an institutional draft law into a 'parallel' tax arrangements. So let me go with the tax provisions. We have criticised you for Article 40 and for depriving the citizen of his right to appeal to the Secretary-General of Income and of asking for re-checking. We have indeed put it to you on an institutional basis. We told you that the Secretary-General has the ability to exercise re-control. Should the citizen not have the right to equality of arms when new evidence emerges? He found new evidence or hadn't been found by the services. Where will he find his point of view in tax courts with advances, at the cost or in the article committee that never operates? You haven't answered. You have misunderstood, and the device has no retroactive effect. I want to hear a serious position on the institutional issue, on the right. We also told you that you should provide an explanation for Article 45 that gives an extension of up to 30-10-2016 of the favourable arrangements for those who have high tax evasion cases and exempts them from fines. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity now to say that we must fight against tax evasion and smuggling and fuel and cigarettes everywhere, as long as this tax evasion lives and reigns, honest taxpayers are paid, and the state is forced to increase the rates every time, which in turn, as the representatives of the Customs Federation have said, leads to a reduction in revenue. That's what's going on. Specifically for cigarettes, it is paid and the retail sale, as the profit rate is reduced. That's where this story has become. I would therefore like to remind you that, apart from voting for institutional provisions which we do not disagree, as neither with traceability nor with electronic recording nor with a number of other issues provided for in Chapter I of the bill, there is the question of human resources, resources and infrastructure. We have been told again by the institutions in the debate that as long as we do not deal with them, no legislation can deliver the expectations we expect. Where's Mr. Nikoloudis telling us about the 2.5 billion dollars of tax evasion from fuel and cigarettes? So he was going to arrest the tax evasion, and we didn't? You were just saying words, you saw it's hard to put it into practice, and some "have done it" with light jumps. I don't know if they've done it themselves or put them aside. In any case, it is an issue to which you must answer. In Chapter I, we have expressed a reservation as to the article on coordination. Because we appreciate that the way you legislate is not effective. And everything in this case is coordination. I told you and the committee that all the provisions contained in Articles 1 to 11 are designed to control and trace the legally produced products in our country. For raw material that escapes and ends up in consumption, without passing through the legal procedure and for products from third countries, which will also not be registered anywhere, who will see to it? It will ensure coordination between the prosecution and the audit authorities. So to the extent that we don't treat this, we're going to throw a hole in the water again. I do not want to go into the issues raised by various representatives of operators about who will have control of traceability, how jobs will be given, what business the tobacco industry has to have access to data and so on. I am well-intentioned, and I think that the legislation, since it also has the transposition of part of a directive, is well-processed. That is why I said that we support these provisions, not because it is simply a transposition of a directive, but also for reasons of principle. Also, for the same reason, we will also be voting on the provisions of Chapter II relating to the transfer of the Council's decision, that is to say Articles 12 to 39. However, I would like it to be clear in the Chamber that when we vote on provisions, we are automatically hitting tax evasion or smuggling. Let me now make a reference to a number of other issues included in Chapter III concerning tax matters. As far as the debtors are concerned, we are told by the press that the debts have reached 16 billion. I don't think you're proud of that, Minister. Because in the committee on the fact that the rate of increase in public deficits which, in glory of the people, are close to 90 billion, you have felt responsible and happy. We criticised you here, in this Chamber, that you did not inform, as you are required by law 3943/2011, the list of debtors with more than 150,000 debtors. We gave you the intention of concealing those favored by the Act of Legislative content, the two hundred seventy people with debts of more than 1 million, to whom you have deleted fines and increments for large tax evasions under the Act of Alekos Papadopoulos 1999. We couldn't find out who they are. You claimed tax confidentiality, we were looking to compare the debtors' lists, but unfortunately they weren't on the Ministry's websites. It was 2013, when the bad coup d'état had made them public at the time. We didn't have any hustlers. You seem to have had other hustles. In any case, life is sometimes avenged and now you have also had to make public and extend this regulation for the insurance funds as well. We are pleased and we are voting in favour of it. Also, Minister, on the basis of what Mr Amyras asked earlier, because in the amendment you have brought in a number of provisions relating to traffic charges, and what is in Article 46, I have to say to you that I find it difficult to decide as rapporteur - I will speak to my colleagues - what to vote on. Because yes, we agree that old age should be calculated from the year of circulation, as in all the countries of the European Union, but you must give us an answer for hybrids and those who went and took cars with low pollutants in the belief that they will have less traffic charges. Not to trap people through a legacy, which has too many contradictions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the criticism we have made in the government of the issues of tax evasion, which it had raised as the first issue on its agenda in relation to the policy pursued in previous years, namely that a policy which favoured the interests, which did not want to hit the workers, the national contractors. Unfortunately, you have come to show in practice that you are doing not just the same, but much worse. That is why we do not accept the accusation that we are the same, as the JRC sometimes says. You are far worse because your tax policy hits the weakest. I heard the majority rapporteur talking about the class mark. Very good. So the class sign is about the increase in the VAT paid by people's consumption, it is about reducing the tax on the poorest, it is about the sickest tank of HNVIA, as I said, which you would have abolished. We will therefore insist on our criticism of all the issues relating to your tax policy, since this is the result of an agreement on measures of 12.5 billion and what we think is right, such as institutional provisions concerning the attempt to combat smuggling and tax evasion in cigarettes. Please, Minister, because we have agreed with the Bureau that it will enable us to intervene on the amendments, on the questions that have been asked, if you can give some answers, in order to facilitate the debate and to know what this House is voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u48	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u49	You'll get, it seems, many times the reason, Mr. Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u50	I will not abuse this minister's right, Madam President. I will not do so because I am not in the mood, asking for the floor, to make any political controversy or to raise issues which I shall raise in my speech, where the political issues will be answered. I will only speak for as long as we need to clarify several points and not repeat them in speeches from other speakers, with respect for the different viewpoints that exist from everyone. The coordination centre provided for in Article 6 is not only for cigarettes. The Coordinating Centre in Article 6, as the provision clearly says, will act as a Coordinating Centre between services to deal with the smuggling of excise goods, i.e. tobacco, tobacco products, fuels, alcohol, etc. It refers to the great vendals of all these products. So it's not just tobacco products. It's a Coordinating Center for the whole smuggling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. Mr Delis, rapporteur from the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Madam President. It is not difficult to answer which government is worse. Every next government is worse than the previous one. That's what experience shows. Ladies and gentlemen, today a bill is coming up, consisting of three parties, to combat tobacco trafficking, provisions relating more widely to smuggling, incorporation into Greek legislation of a European Union directive on the use of information technology in customs purposes, as well as other provisions which are very common, but also a rule for our people in the Ministry of Finance. But we'll talk about them later. First of all, no one can object in general to the use of information technology and technology in customs matters, the fight against smuggling. The question, however, is the conditions and context within which this use takes place. And here - as we will see below - there are ambiguities, vague and intentional concerns. First of all, to explain, on the issue of smuggling, we do not question the intentions of combating it, Minister. Such intentions, after all, have not been lacking in any government. There are still in the ears of the world your heavy declarations about the fight against fuel smuggling and in general, which would also finance the forgotten Programme of Thessaloniki. Smuggling lives and reigns now, as its fight either stays in the big word or is being molested. What should one consider when this new attempt to combat smuggling of tobacco and other goods is being referred in accordance with this bill for not too close to 2019? This position of the President of the Greek tobacco industry also comes first in the relevant committee of Parliament, where he is right - since he agrees with the bill - openly and cynically spoke of pious desires for the fight against smuggling. The capitalists know more than that! So what is happening, and the fight against smuggling, usually stays in words despite legislative measures and well-advertised campaigns against it? What's to blame and it's an old problem that he doesn't have? What is to blame - and not only do you not think to touch it, but you protect it - lies in the very heart of the system that you all serve. It's the very capitalist profit, legal or illegal. Profit is the foundation stone, the same reason for any capitalist society. It is well known that illegal capitalist profit is far greater than legal profit. That explains why smuggling is being raised in developed capitalist countries such as Germany, England, France, and not even the President of the Greek tobacco industry. This explains why, at the same time, there is always a smuggling situation in which protagonists and feeders are certainly not some immigrants, poor people, and let them alone be targeted. All means are used to hunt capitalist profit. Capitalist competition, the so advertised, is unaltered. He doesn't know any boundaries. The phenomenon of smuggling is of course growing in times of economic crisis due to the sharp decline in the value of the purchasing power of the people's strata, because of poverty, which is rapidly spreading as a result of the anti-grass class policy in favour of the capital followed by all urban governments. But there is a need for clarification here. The abolition, restriction of smuggling, the so-called fight against tax evasion, of course, do not concern the official activities of capital. These activities to a large extent enjoy scandalous tax immunity, tax exemptions, incentives, subsidies. It is a typical example here of shipowners and of the last development law. All tax laws, all regulations are rightly called a tax storm. Here, let us say that tobacco products are champions in the taxes imposed. Your electronic cigarette has escaped for a while and you are now putting the relevant tax on it. So all the unscrupulous burdens of direct and indirect taxation fall on the backs of the city’s and the village’s popular strata and do not concern business groups, which, after all, contribute to the state’s annual tax revenues is less than 5%, that is to say, if they are affected by their competitiveness. But you don't stop here. These state tax revenues, the state resources coming out on the hump of the people, are they meant to meet the social needs of our people? Apart from a small part of them, which is constantly frustrating, the main volume of state revenue is directed towards the multi-faceted satisfaction of the interests of capital and the service of lenders. This is reflected in your annual state budgets and is experienced by the popular layers in education, health, which are extremely expensive, in the welfare of crumbs, in the poverty that is spreading. We are not talking about all this, Minister, for any other reason, but rather about setting the real framework, both political and economic, in which the regulations of this bill are also being attempted, which also declares the fight against smuggling. On this basis, our remarks and our overall criticism of the bill are based, but also on its individual articles. Thus, while the bill in its first articles announces a new system of authorisations for the tobacco supply chain, through a central register, the EMEA, which will be registered with a unique number of tobacco operators, on all these essential issues, which are mentioned so broadly, will require future ministerial decisions, so that they will in fact be specified, without any binding timetable for such measures, while the computerisation implementation of these measures will be repeated in those articles once and whenever the information system of customs electronic services is activated in the context of the trans-European ICISnet, however after 2019. But in Article 3, it's where the snakes live. It is not only that this refers to unknown content and that of ministerial decisions. It is mainly because you are giving tobacco, domestic and multinational companies themselves, the right, it says, to take due diligence measures to their customers for all transactions, normal, unusual or suspects, and indeed the minimum of these measures. Really, with the minimum of the measures in the hands of the tobacco industries, will you step on smuggling? If this is not a carabinae bypass of the competent state services, then it is known that we ‘we put the wolf on guarding the sheep’. While this article hypocritically mocks tobacco manufacturers that they are being loaded, says, bureaucratic tasks, the Centro Association comes here and asks them for what they dare not even the tobaccomotors themselves to ask for themselves, i.e. even more motives, financially meant. We should pay them back, that is, the tobacco industry and above. Then they get mad that we call them the rabbits of capital. Article 5 provides for the traceability of tobacco products by means of an indelibly unique identification code of eleven elements per unit of packaging, i.e. per package, with three elements accessible only electronically, in order to illuminate the entire trade path of tobacco as the consumer. Yes, sir! Who will store, who will monitor this data of the traceability of tobacco in our country and in the European Union? An independent third party responds to the bill. However, in the committee yesterday, it was formally denounced that this role of the independent third party would be taken by subsidiaries of the multinationals of the tobacco industries. But you will put it in the same article 5, and an external auditor of this third party who will be closely and vigilantly monitoring his activities. Who will I please hire and reward this external auditor? But from the tobacco industries themselves, the multinationals. I have forgotten that everything will also be under the approval of the Commission. It's now that we're saved. Hey, did the monopolies make the European Union for free? Her burger still needs him. As for traceability itself, its own article, which refers to it, cuts its wings, since it expressly states that this is possible provided that monitoring and detection of all packaging units remains feasible. If this is not a pre-emptive confession of inefficiency, then what is it? Why does our country and the European Union, in other words, not require the traceability identifier for all the products of third country tobacco industries with which it is traded, but only for tobacco products intended for its purchase? Who ensures that these are all coming? For others, in third countries, the European Union knows how to demand, even to bomb. Is that what politeness has gotten into her now? Article 6 provides that the Coordinating Business Centre is to be established to deal with the smuggling of excise goods. However, it is not created as a service of the Ministry of Finance, but it is directly owned by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, an independent authority completely controlled by the Commission and by the institutions, namely the lenders. This does not change, Minister, because for reasons of impression you have the impression that it will also be supervised by a committee appointed by the Prime Minister. Among the seven responsibilities of this coordination clearly states that this takes operational action in research, control and prosecution against smuggling, not only of tobacco, but of all excise goods and of the same powers. We ask: How feasible can this be with the twenty seconded staff of the Coordination Service that you are planning, and above all why this critical and heavy work is being removed from customs and other government agencies? Up to an investigation work takes place this coordinating task, by removing the relevant state services, while it may have access to all information systems and databases, without preventing it from being taxed or otherwise classified. Here, for the coordination, the New Democracy in its competition with SYRIZA for the benefit of capital is overheating. Calls for the inclusion in this Coordination and the representatives of economic operators, i.e. capitalists, and of course reproduces all the demands of the tobacco industry. Articles 12 to 39 are the incorporation of a Community directive providing for cooperation with EUROPOL and EUROJUST on the service, as the text says, in addition to other administrative or other objectives. So, what other purposes? What is behind this vagueness around the European Union's prosecution authorities? In the definitions of Article 14, it concerns - and I think it should concern us all - the reference to identifying a person's identity on the basis of elements characterised by physical, biological, psychological, economic, political or social aspects. That's a regular Eurofalse. In Article 15 it distinguishes itself and gives rise to remembrance from the data categories of the Customs Information System the category "Trends of Fraud". In fact, in what way, Minister, will you find that someone is being persecuted by fraud? You'll guess them? In short, in the articles of the Community directive, which we are voting against as a whole, for the use of this Customs System, whose data can also be used for purposes other than the persecution of smuggling, or even for use in third countries or international organisations and in cooperation with EUROPOL and EUROJUST, as I have said, there are deliberate ambiguities, vague ones, which do not at all guarantee the protection of personal data, which they are supposed to - as they are - to protect against attempting to combat smuggle. The other tax provisions of the bill are literally a medicated garden for the people. Its cool fruits you have for capital. And what doesn't he have? From tax exemptions for large technical companies, facilities for major automobile importers, up to provisions which may lead to exemptions for serious cases of tax evasion or such as Article 40, where the independent tax administration authority takes over powers and with its amendment you also ensure the impunity. On the other hand, with Article 47, you are abolishing the existing special arrangements for the reimbursement of VAT to farmers selling their agricultural products on the people's markets and adapting Greek legislation to the anti-agricultural policy of the European Union. You're moving on to another tax-payer. However, this debate on farmers and tobacco is literally on the ashes of Greek tobacco production. In any case - and the people know - tobacco-growing has paid and paid very expensively - most probably of all agricultural crops - the common agricultural policy of the European Union. At the same time, of course, the last link in the supply chain of tobacco, pavilions and retailers are literally suffocating from the tax pressure on all governments, while tobacco industries enjoy favourable treatment in all their activities. In Article 48, what you are doing is to constantly extend the flexible forms of employment to individual employment contracts for the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance as well. Of course, you have retreated under the general outcry to abolish the reduction of the EMS by 50% in the disabled and the tenants. Retreat, but retreat at the moment. Your disposition does not seem to be cutting too, even though it is a class mark for your policy. To conclude, I should like to say here that the cherries in the cake are the usual amendments. With the fines for the violations of proof from EUR 250 to EUR 500 for cigarettes of up to EUR 1 500 000 - that's what we're talking about, that's where we're talking about - you're hitting the small cigarettes, the 'bug', because that's a waste for the big tax companies. As for the facilities for payment of pensions, benefits and allowances, which you are cutting back, what you do is not called social policy, slaughter on better terms is called but slaughter. That is - how Mr Chakalotos said yesterday - courage. So in closing, with his movement and his struggle to stop you. In conclusion, we will vote'representations' despite the fact that there are positive provisions, better declarations. We shall be placed with the'residence' at the outset and on the whole of the bill and, of course, according to the article. We will of course vote against all the relevant articles of the Community directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u53	The Minister, Mr Paulakis, has the floor for three minutes to talk about the amendment by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. This is the amendment with a general number of 575 and a special 107. I also thank the Treasury Department for integrating it into his bill. This is an amendment with seven articles, which solves some immediate and pressing issues which exist in the health field. In particular, the first article identifys how the selective recruitment and crisis bodies operate in the DPEs by means of the corresponding procedure in hospitals and in the EAWs. The second paragraph extends the function of the Price Observatory Committee, what we set up in the parallel programme and in the amendment afterwards, which gave us the right to resist the war that we were conscious of in a number of companies, trying to block the system of hospital supplies, giving very low prices to some species, blocking the whole system of competitions. By the way, we have been able to save EUR 5 million because of this provision from the way we invoiced the artificial kidney filters, both those relating to classical haemodialysis and blood transfusion. It's 5 million euros with only one move. The third paragraph is to extend the supply of health centres through contracts previously signed by hospitals until the completion of the new central or regional competitions that have begun to take place. However, because they are not everywhere in the same way and at the same time, we are prolonging the possibility for health centres to supply themselves on the basis of the oldest tenders they have had. Also, with paragraph 4, we are prolonging the EEAS contracts with the providers that ended in June, as at the moment there is a huge deal going on with all the EEAS providers, firstly, meeting the needs of patients and, secondly, the public benefit. What some people knew to forget about it. There's a real deal going on. We will meet the needs of the world with the best possible financial benefit. With Article 5, we are extending the movements made by health regions or by hospital administrators in different places to cover emergency and pressing gaps in the health system. We're prolonging until the end of the year. With Article 6, we legalise the costs incurred by June 2016 in order to be able to repay the providers. I should also like to say here at the time when I am given that the Ministry of Health and EEAS fully meet the timetable for payment of outstanding debts and by 30 August will have fallen on the market of EUR 570 million to suppliers from the Ministry of Health and the Hospitals and EUR 300 million from the EEAS to the pharmaceutical industry and the provider of the EEAS. This is a EUR 900 million liquidity injection, for which a huge mechanism is currently working at an exceptional rate. I would like to offer congratulations from the Step of the House to hospital service providers and to EEA service providers, because these 900 million by the end of the year will have given birth to another 3-4 billion. The last article - and most important, in my opinion - concerns eight hundred and eighty-four doctors and six hundred and twenty-three other auxiliary staff. We are giving, as we were committed, an extension to ancillary staff serving in hospitals and covering gaps and has put back on the support of the health system. We allow it to extend its term of office up to 30-9-2017, for another year, as it expires on 30-9-2016. I note that, after six years, there was a contraction of seven hundred sixty permanent doctors' posts and the implementation of the first batch of nine hundred and eighty-five recruits, which were announced last November, which have already been served in over two hundred hospitals, fighting daily with this monster of bureaucracy. In the next few days, the proclamation of the thousands of seven hundred that will go from the rolling table of the previous notice comes out. Let me mention here that yesterday Mr Vernardakis signed the thousands - there are two thousand people - with a nominal ranking of the administrative staff from the 1998 CSCE, please. We also corrected this injustice, the left-wing government. For eighteen years they had them on the outside. They took the best friends right and left, and those two thousand people stayed out. Today or tomorrow, it is published in the FEK and the nine hundred and fifty-four of them will strengthen the administrative mechanism of hospitals. It was also signed and we received a thousand more permanent nursing staff, mainly supporting Athens and Thessaloniki. We are giving extension to this subsidiary staff until the permanent recruitment is completed, because indeed, however many people are shouting, however much they are trying to pass the record of the disaster, the health situation in relation to October is clearly better. It's much better. The system balances and goes through a new page. Some people got hurt at the Santorini Hospital. They had it five years closed and were ready to sell it, and right now a private store that is offshore is boring flies with this hospital starting to work. We know they mind. We know they have great pain and malaise, but in the health field, we're going to another page. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u55	Don't hide in Parliament's Control, and we're looking for you, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u56	I collect them and answer them all together. Mr. Kutsuko, I'm working. I'm not hiding, I'm going out, and I'm telling them by their name. You're too little to say I'm hiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Kutsuko, please calm down to listen to Mr. Amyras next. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Amyras has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u58	Peace memorial! Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I will start with a little comment on something that is happening out of here, from plenary. Next to Syntagma Square, dear Mr. Manta, your former companions, you will recognize them as many of them, took possession at the offices of "ELLENIKI SA". I'd like to know what your reaction is. Will you tell them to leave, because the privatisation of the Greek now is good, or will you tell them to stay because your former comrades were right? In any case, I come to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, if we assume that today Greeks and Greeks will smoke a thousand cigarettes, the two hundred fifty of them are smuggling. We are therefore all aware of the scale of the problem. For years and years now, the same problems. We hear about smuggling tobacco, we hear about fuel smuggling, we come governments, the Ministers, their Deputys, the Secretarys-General, the Secretary-General, all of us are told that they will fight these two phenomena of the black economy, but that is today, in 2016, we are discussing the same things. You'll tell me, there's a solution if the smokers cut off the cigarette. It would be a very good development for health first of all, but also for health, of course, for the budget funds. Because, yes, the state would lose revenue from tobacco taxation, but it would recover the lost revenue from the money we would not spend as a health system and as a pension insurance scheme. In any case, it would be a good choice and I wish someone, even one of the thousand who were supposedly saying that today they would turn off cigarettes. However, the economic issue is a big one. The majority's good colleague said so. I've also mentioned it to the committees. According to the study by KPMG, only in 2015, with conservative calculations, the Greek State lost EUR 637 million from tobacco smuggling. I have told you to the committees - and I will repeat it - that we should add to these costs and a cost - of decency. Why would some citizens - tell me why they have clothes, why can't they pay HIS? Why did products that buy extremely expensive goods by increasing VAT on your days, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers of SYRIZA and ANEL? - they'll light the cigarette. Well, it turns on the cigarette, but at the same time the smoke smugglers do harm their own health, but above all - and not only - to the 'health' of the producers and the Greek tobacco companies. We believe that in order to address the problem as a whole and in depth, we should show, protect and exploit the domestic tobacco production potential. Greek tobacco is one of the top in the world. It is of excellent quality, but at the same time it also needs better information for consumers. But simply words, we want speed in the moves of the state and government mechanism. We hear a small melancholy that in 2019 the system for identifying and monitoring tobacco products will be put into operation through labelling. It's something that worries us. We should be running faster, despite the fact that Europe does not seem to be rushing into such a regulation for other European countries as well. However, they do not face such great problems of tax evasion and smuggling. We also definitely want more customs in the field, on the front line, and we want you to equip the customs services and services of the Ministry of Finance with everything that is necessary - with the rays we have heard from the customs representative and with a thousand or two other means used by the Bulgarians across the street, the Turkish side, the Italians to the west, and only we are in an eternal black hole. I have some points to make on some articles and, above all, on Article 40(11), on the inability - to say so - to review a case of a citizen if he so requests. Now a citizen can no longer ask for the re-checking of his tax case, only if he produces information which is prejudicial to him and increases the tax or the fines he should have had to pay from the first check. What are the ways of a citizen with a small or larger business - does it not matter - toward a tax control which the citizen considers to be unfair? He's got two streets. Firstly, the wrongful means, namely going to the Committee on Dispute Settlement, but, as Mr Koutsoukos has said quite rightly, this committee is meeting in chaos and fame. Second way is to go to court. However, in order to go to the courts and be justified, it must, first, pay 50% of the debt, secondly, the excessive costs of the courts and the misconduct. But you say that's what they're treated for. The worst part is that a court decision takes four to five years to be issued. Until then, this man won't have tax information. So, Minister, how will he move and survive? It may well be that he has also been put into the accounts. On the contrary, what is the effect of the tax office making a bad check on an operation? None! Why, Minister, do we deprive the citizen of the right and refuse him the opportunity to provide information to the tax authority and on the basis of the new evidence to decide whether or not the re-checker is to decide? This issue has been debated in particular with Mr Theocharis and Mr Koutsoukos, and we have a proposal to put to you. Citizens should be given the opportunity to provide the Committee with information and the Committee should decide whether the information is sufficient. In other words, the citizen should be able to contact the tax authority by asking the tax authority to weigh whether or not a matter of review is raised. That is something you should think about. Because, Minister, it is paradoxical that - and that is why I am staying very much on this point - that the citizen loses a weapon he has and the tax office acquires a second in his own patron. What does the citizen have to do? Get tempted to ask the taxi to fall softly, since he won't have the second re-control staircase. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] What's left of the tax office? Not to accept the information provided to him by the taxpayer and for his own reasons to propose another conciliation. This is a very difficult matter. In addition, Minister, there is this. There are tax collectors who are indictees, tax collectors who are in the hands of criminal prosecutions. These cases will not be able to stand in court if the applicant or the accused citizen fails to prove that the tax office has done bad control, omitted evidence or, in any case, concealed the truth. Minister, this is a very delicate matter. There are some customs officers, some tax collectors - I put a question - some other auditors from the Ministry of Finance who are pleased with the deprivation of the citizen of his ability to go to a second step and ask for a review of a check which the citizen considers to be bad. So please, we would like an additional answer on this. I have a few comments to make on the amendment, with a general number of 570 and a special number 106 on the fines that we have just been talking about. I am referring to the fact that you have reduced the basis for the fines to EUR 250 for a business with simplified books to EUR 500 for bibliographics. That is why I asked for clarification at the beginning of the meeting. As you have said, the fine is cumulative by tax control and not by breach. I'll say it differently. An EBGAzicon having a turnover of EUR 10,000 per year, if it does not cut a receipt, will be imposed on him the fine of EUR 250. A company supplying EBGAzidic, for example, with ice cream and 1,500,000 euros, if it does not cut eight hundred proofs, will pay for all the evidence it has not cut. This shows that there is an imbalance in the system. They will, if not six, but chosen tax-gatherers and those who had a little misrepresentation or were not wrongdoing and, in any case, somehow fell into it. I would also like to say that Law 2523/1997 provided that a fine would be imposed for each individual infringement. Why don't we go back to the former regime that provides us with a security against the involvement or, if you like, to the slut in the wrongdoing of businesses that don't escape, but with this kind of regulation they get an incentive not to cut evidence? As far as fines for undeclared VAT are concerned, we consider that a fine equal to 100% of the tax that would result from the undeclared item or the difference, including the levying of tax - on undeclared income I mean. We therefore say that in the event of a relapse of the same system within one year rather than the five years mentioned in the amendment, because in five years' time this operation may have been closed, it may have been imposed at least twice the fine. In relation to ENPIA, Article 49, what now can we start for ENPIA? Remind me what SYRIZA said? What did the Prime Minister say when he was Chief of Officer Opposition on the irrational HIS tax that is not corrected, but is abolished? Who was unreasonable then? The one who listened to it or the one who said it? I note, of course, that you said about HNPH "it fills us with the fact that we restore the discharge and the discount to the disabled and the multitude". I have to say that the joy followed by another feeling. What feeling did you have before the joy when you imposed on disabled and multiple families? I would also like to make a point to you on Article 1. It is for the dispatch, import and export of tobacco, manufactured tobacco between Greece and other countries. It also says that the report of the Scientific Agency that the authorisation proposed for the adoption of the Ministerial Decision does not correspond to Article 43(2)(b) of the Constitution. Why? Because this legislative text does not contain any substantive rules - it also says the Scientific Agency - even if it is of a general nature and the terms and conditions for granting this authorisation are unclear and generally unambiguous. In other words, any minister could uncontrollably move in this area. Article 10, Minister, for the retroactive application of Article 29 of the Treaty. 2960, what's he telling us? It tells us that the fine proposed is not in proportion to the economic object of the punishable infringement. In order for the importer to be subject to these rules referred to in this Article, imports amounting to at least EUR 250,000,000 per year, EUR 100,000 for the first five years of accession to the regime should therefore be made subject to these rules. Look at that, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I could conclude my speech with one wish: to gain first of all from all the parties that are in Parliament the self-awareness that will lead us to consensus so that we can slowly gain the national confidence we have lost over the years. In order to do this, we must radically hit and hit the holes of corruption, of intergovernment, of corrupt public officials, of corrupt entrepreneurs, and at any rate, if we unite in five basic steps that may seem to be small, but they are, in fact, very big, in fact, we can hope that we will also face this phenomenon. I conclude by saying that, in order to solve the problems of smuggling tobacco, I call on the citizens, even for this reason, because you tell them about their health and they are not convinced, since you tell them that they are harming their health around them and are not convinced, to quit cigarettes. It's the safest way and to improve your lives and the state's finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u59	And we're running time, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u60	Before Mr. Kammenos, I want to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u61	However, Mark Twain said: “The easiest example is to quit cigarettes.” I cut it twenty times."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u62	It's good to cut cigarettes, but it's reducing public revenues. So we need to see which of the two is less evil or more evil.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u63	We're compensating for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u64	I'll tell you. In relation to what has been said on the subject of review and Article 40, the full answer and political response and many other issues will be heard in my speech. I don't want to get into these issues now. They'll be heard there and you believe they'll be busy, because I'll reveal too many things. As far as the question of review is concerned, however, I should like to make this clear: First, Mr Amyras, I can assure you that I have been working in the Ministry of Finance since 1987. Corruption at the Treasury doesn't start from a limit below. The point is that corruption does not exist from the top, from much above and go down as a phenomenon. Because, it's too easy when you're on a very high level to blame it underneath. I'm more concerned about not having the high levels of the Ministry of Finance's ability to deal with corruption, despite the following. Because if the motto is given on top, there's no question. But I can assure you that exactly with this provision, we're going to close such holes. The right to review the operation or the citizen is not abolished. The right to re-check is specific, there is, we do not abolish the re-control, but we are setting criteria. I will say in my speech about what has been done at the Ministry of Finance and what is happening at the moment with the provision. If the citizen finds evidence after the check, i.e. if the check was carried out, he has found no evidence - which is scientific fiction, accept it - and found some information after the check, he can go to the Ministry of Finance's Directorate responsible, to the Post-Control Dispute Resolution Directorate, where there are still officials from the Ministry of Finance who are dealing with this issue and who are reviewing the case. If the new information provided by the taxpayer shows that he is right, the case can either go back to the department which checked for the purpose of calculating or the address to deal with the matter. So the citizen has the ability. Let's just go close holes that caused problems. I'll tell you in detail in my speech about this series. It also remains the right of the citizen to appeal to the courts, which, if they consider it, may order a re-check. So what we are closing down as a problem, as a door, is not a citizen's right, but a right to abuse any Alexiadis or any other political factor to use his position to benefit businesses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's speech will be divided into two key parts. We have had a great deal of discussion in the committee and we have listened carefully to all the actors. There are too many stakeholders in this bill and we have been lucky to know about issues that we did not have a chance either in private or in political life until now to learn, for example, from the recommendations of the President of the tobacco industry as well as from the President of customs. As I said in my suggestion to the committees, this state was in full lawlessness. This government is coming to put some laws and rules, not only on tax revenue but in order to enable the citizen to feel safe when making use of a product or service with state control, which must be everywhere and to oversee whether the product or service that the citizen enjoys is safe. I also raised the issue of cigarettes and containers and 'on-calls' I put it to the President of customs, namely that there was a great responsibility for the containers lost in Thessaloniki, to the OLTH, which we do not know, because there was no system for tracing, monitoring and storing. The cigarettes were for ten years in the warehouses and they were out. I will say this for the record that the administration then preferred, instead of burning them with 50 000 euros, to pay taxes and duties 1.800,000 euros. In other words, he actually preferred to damage the public. The sum of 1,800,000 euros is 50% of the tariffs of lost cigarettes in a warehouse. All this took place one night, without anyone knowing anything: neither the guard nor the administration nor the customs officers. Nobody! There must be seriousness on the part, which is specific to tobacco products. I have discussed with very many bodies, in private, I have discussed with the Minister himself, but also with colleagues from all parties, except Golden Dawn, on the issue of my amendment to protect the margins of tobacco retailers. I will, however, come after the middle of my introduction to this matter and I will read and bring evidence and evidence of European Courts, which resolve the question because there was a question, although it is contrary to European law. I would like to say here that the tax revenue - and for the Minutes I have to say once again, although we are tiring up, but it is good to inform the Greek citizen and our colleagues - that in the major audit centres from the CFP the data state that in 2014 we had a total of EUR 250 million of certified debts, in 2015 we had EUR 417 million, an increase of 67%. On the same basis in 2015 there were twenty-four thousand two hundred seventy-three on-the-spot checks against the four thousand six hundred one in 2014. A thousand fifty-eight appeals were issued against nine hundred fifty-six in 2014. There were six hundred and sixty-six opening accounts against thirty-one in 2014 and taxes of EUR 2,6 billion compared with EUR 1,4 billion in 2014. As far as tobacco products for 2014 are concerned, we should congratulate the services of the Government of the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA and the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance and the knowledge of the Minister, who is also an expert on the issues and has control - I know what I say and I do not steal from him - because he knows the job. So in 2014 we had eleven thousand seven hundred and fifty-four audits, with a certificate amount of 59,894,357 euros and in 2015 we had six thousand five hundred eighty-five audits with a certificate of 147,664,000 euros, almost three times the revenues with fewer audits. In terms of fuels - we will come to this later - within the year we had twenty-seven thousand tests with a certificate amount of EUR 18 million, in 2015 we had eight thousand eight hundred checks with a certificate of 13,800,000 euros. I am presenting the proposal to the committee today. The Minister knows her. Of the set of attestations, for example from the Lagard list, only the SYRIZA and Independent Greeks managed to collect EUR 175 million, while previous governments in 2014 had only received EUR 26,620,000. Of this, the government could and should have made a government decision to make an amount corresponding to EUR 2 million per tonne per tonne for each customs, to give EUR 20 million for the misery, to get ten scanners and not be forced to take them from any PHILIP MORRIS, from none of the Karls and from any tobacco manufacturer, which is a conflict of interest and it is clear that articles prohibiting this not only in the marketing, purchase or donation of the scanner, but also in the management of the software. So my proposal is official, remains and I will ask it, and I will intervene in time, so that we can take the sum and we alone with our own money, without harming any public funds, go and get the scanners to bring the revenues that we have, as Mr Amyras said earlier, and as we know very well, exceed EUR 600 million per year. So we don't have anything to discuss. The exit of EUR 20 million from money-laundering 650 million is not something we need to discuss. It is a matter of common sense and must happen. As far as customs is concerned - and I am closing down with economics to go to the subject of the amendment - we had revenue in 2016, 6,131 with six months' revenue from customs 5,630. We've got it every month. Customs have more revenue. In total, the increase in revenue is 9%. I do not testify to the tables because the Minister has testified to them before. Now let's go see the trade piece, the tax piece, and why I will largely agree with the Communist Party of Greece - it may be one of the few times that this has been recorded in the Minutes - because, fortunately or unfortunately, the tobacco lobby imposes the legislation in Europe. We know that this legislation is spread over national legislation. They are trying in every way to control and make the oligopoly - I would not call it a monopoly - on tobacco. The revenues are huge, hundreds of billions of euros, the escape is again hundreds of billions of euros. Ladies and gentlemen, we must know that the - let us say - all ten large tobacco industries have in their possession all the cigarette companies that make cigarettes that are without a name without label in various countries of the world from Central Asia, India, Africa, Latin America, Argentina and Brazil. So, in fact, they control nearly 90% of the total trafficking in legal and illegal cigarettes. The word 'unlawful' put it in introductory terms, because to many, and illegality is legal. But we are coming to see what the Greek public is doing right now and how it is doing it. In attempting to rationalise revenue and control tax evasion, but also to have immediate recovery - God first! - in the evening with the clearance of VAT and elsewhere, we will put POS, that is to say we will put the electronic card payment systems at all points of sale and give the tax incentive that by charges and transactions with plastic money we will have - and we will have - tax-free. Up there we will build the tax-free, motivate each other and the user and the service provider. The State will have full control of the transaction and all transactions on Greek territory. To reach the point of sale, for example, which concerns us today, which has tobacco products processed, as is international terminology, we also have to put POS, if you like, on all these points. The profit margins for anyone who knows them or does not know them are extremely low. We're talking ten to fifteen thousand businesses that are family, they're people's business. We are not talking about capital companies, we are not talking about multinationals, we are not talking about anonymous companies that manage twenty, thirty, fifty, a hundred kiosk. They're family business. 85% of the revenues and of the availability at this point of sale - take note of what I'm saying to you - is done for tobacco products. If tobacco products leave or are not sold or closed, not all other products which are food, mobile phone products, newspapers, magazines, etc. shall be sold. Everyone knows what he finds in these stores. Some of them are small ovens, because we have the fish shops. We must say here that it is clear that the strategy of companies is to open up their own shops and get out of the middle of all retailers, that is to say, having their own vertical system of production. This will create distortions in the market, we know that very well. It's understandable and self-evident. The traceability we are voting on today will help fight. Let's go now and see why and what is the reasoning of the amendment I have tabled? The proposed provision seeks to protect the income of tobacco retailers from the legislative power of the tobacco industry at the same time as setting the retail price or the price of tobacco products, thus unilaterally defining the distribution of profits between them. I mean, the seller determines how much anyone gets out. If this is not a abuse of a dominant position in a market or anything else that trade law might say, I don't know what it is. This is where the SYRIZA Government has to intervene. The unilateral definition of the supply of the press retailer by the distributor at the expense of the first, as well as the development of oligopolistic practices in the distribution of the press, by imposing on the part of the distribution agencies a exclusive supplier of the press with geographical criteria only. Even the press becomes an oligopoly and the press determines the profit rate of the seller. For these reasons it is necessary to adopt this amendment. In accordance with Article 9(1) of Directive 95/59 of the European Community, tobacco-industrials, their relevant representatives and agents in the community, as well as importers from third countries, shall freely fix the highest retail prices of each product in a Member State in which consumption is intended to be made available. Article 100 of the Customs Code in force has been fully harmonized in the above provision, amended on the provision of Article 48 of Law 2127/1993. This amendment completely abolished the previously applicable system of administrative price control, in which the retail price was again determined by the tobacco industry or their representatives. I conclude - in order to reach the very important decision and to facilitate both the Minister and you - by saying that the proposal for the amendment is in Article 97 of Law No 2960/2001 (265A) to add paragraph 9, which reads as follows: 'The threshold for the supply of tobacco retailers is set at 39.6% on their retail price before tax. By decision of the Ministry of Finance all the details necessary for the implementation of that provision are regulated, in particular the administrative penalties for violating it by the competent enforcement bodies’, i.e. there is arbitrary action. "The minimum supply threshold for press retailers is set at 10%, which is exactly Europe's average, which is set by law in all the countries of Europe, on the price set by the printed retailer. Finally, all products in which the total VAT on the retail price is incorporated in accordance with the tax provisions at the retail price and which do not deduct, such as indicative telephone cards, access codes to telephone services, etc., the minimum fee of the retail points to be set at 8 %.’ I will typically leave it in the Minutes for anyone who does not have it, and I thank my colleagues again for the agreement. [[At this point the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will help the Ministry, leaving the case of 78/82 in the minutes, and only by reading to you the end of its thinking. The European Community has turned against the Italian Republic and said that since you want to put a certain margin of profit on tobacco, this is contrary to Article 37 of the European Community. And he turns to the courts. The decision was a conviction against the European Community, Minister. Italy was acquitted. It is an application from the European Community that Italy should be ordered not to make a minimum profit margin for tobacco products on the territory of the Italian Republic. The reasoning of the judgment I will read and I will leave it in the Minutes for everyone: 'If the contested regulation restricts imports of foreign products, it must be noted, as the Court has repeatedly held, that national measures regulating price fixing and applying indiscriminately to domestic and imported products do not in itself constitute a measure having an effect equivalent to a quantitative restriction, but that they may have such an effect when, by reason of the price established, imported products are placed at a disadvantage'. There was a question of whether the imported products in question in relation to the products produced in Italy are of distinct or unequal treatment. The courts have decided negatively. Finally, it states: ‘In the present case, the contested regulation does not affect the ability of producers and lays down retail prices for their products. Full competition is possible in the basic sector of the fixing of retail prices. Foreign tobacco producers may either benefit from the existence of a more competitive cost price or fully transfer the higher cost price. It is not disputed that the single margin represents an adequate remuneration for the retail sale of tobacco products, whether imported or domestically imported.’ The European Union and the European decision are clear. Anyone who goes through will lose, because the decision is clear. Each Member State may and may adopt measures to protect the weak. Impossible in this equation we are debating today is the family business of retailers, who are forty-five thousand people on Greek territory. The government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks will not shut them down. He's not gonna put a padlock on. That's not going through anyone's mind. The lobby should sit down and do its job, fix its tariffs. I have to say that in the crisis - because I had more customers than most of them abroad, Minister - on Fridays the tobacco industry sends profits abroad. They leave no single euro in any face-to-face accounts. Last year's 2014 and 2015 uses, if you see the balance sheets, show losses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Is there any damage to tobacco, to multinationals in Greece? Why do they show damage? To avoid taxing in Greece, even with an increased rate of 26% plus the advance, and I have discussed it with them that we have found. They're presenting artificial damage. We will therefore put in place a normality and help healthy entrepreneurship and the neighborhood shop, which plays a multi-party role. We all grew up with the pavilion in the neighborhood. If we close it, the Greek society will close. I don't call it part-party, I call it human. I've grown up with people in my neighborhood forty years. I will leave for the record the European Court of Justice ruling on all colleagues, which condemns the European Commission and vindicates the Italian Government and protects the retail trade and the profit of retailers, especially in tobacco products, by not considering unequal treatment or manipulation of competition in relation to local or imported products. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, we are voting on the bill as a whole, in accordance with article and amendments. We also thank Mr Polakis for informing us of the direct and indirect revenues of the resolution of the health system. I would ask, Minister, that the amendment be accepted, because there is consensus, I think, from all parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u67	Mr Katsiantonis from the Centroon Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Katerina Papanatziou, in committee stressed that the aim of the bill is to clash with the system of fuel smuggling and the end of the closure of the eye to irregularities, stressing also that it is the backbone of other similar issues to combat smuggling. I wish, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, it was so easy. The fight against smuggling cannot be dealt with by dashing legislative interventions and arbitrary or inadequate regulations. Unfortunately, smuggling is not so easily undone by a law or articles. Smuggling has deep roots in Greek society and is in direct connection with social and economic conditions, as well as with the culture of fiscal consciousness among citizens. The reason for this is not only some socially unrealistic and 'neo-liberal' - within introductory companies - who will not hesitate to deal with the irregular trafficking of tobacco products. The most profound cause is in the world, which is now on the verge of poverty. The citizen knows that by buying a pack of cigarettes or a tobacco product of dubious origin, he is committing double damage. One, the principal to him, is possible damage to his own health, as this product to be purchased does not go through the necessary control procedures. The second is the harm caused to society as a whole by tax evasion and tax evasion. However, this man who lives within a regime of great economic hardship will prefer the smuggler if he is to save some euro and definitely use them later on for his immediate needs. For the truth, I quote some things from my experience in the Committee on Economic Affairs in the last few days. The President of the Association of Greek Tobacco Industrys Mr Spyros Flegas pointed out that with this bill, yes, we are in line with European legislation, but he noted that his wording is general and no drastic improvement of the trade is foreseen. At the same time, it raised objections to the provision which obliges tobacco producers to send an electronic statement with their transactions and to provide information on suspected transactions. He said attributes that we should not have hopes of combating smuggling. The vast majority, which reaches 90% of the smuggling, concerns products that have not been legally imported into the country, but these issues are not at all touched by them. On the other hand, the President of the Customs Office, Dimitris Tribonias, said that the bill alone cannot deal with economic crime unless there is a strong political will to put forward an integrated action plan. The entity argued with arguments that the Ministry of Finance should immediately review the issue of excessive tobacco taxation in order to tax more proportionally on cigarettes, taking into account prices in neighbouring countries. In other words, it tells us that we have an unfair tax system for the benefit of expensive cigarettes. Other market players, those closest to the ordinary citizen, told us some things. For example, the President of the Trade Unions of Smoke and Fishing Species, Attica, told us something very interesting. He talked about interests that want to eliminate the patios selling tobacco products, but also about interests behind who will take charge of tracing. Also, the President of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Wage Adventures and Disabled Cylics, Mr. Theodoros Mallis, made a direct reference to the quality of the auditing mechanisms, mentioning features that we need trained staff. This finding by an experienced market man means that to date he has not seen the appropriate technical disposal by the government to serve the responsible control steps with people - known of the object, in practice and not simply in theory. This concern of the people who know the market is making us call you that you are heading the wrong way. This attitude of imposing legislative regulatory interventions in the direction of repression rather than prevention is a legacy of previous governments and, unfortunately, what we see is that you are continuing it. For example, in Article 6, you form the General Secretariat of Revenue, a mixed interdepartmental group with the name ‘Coordinating Operational Centre’. In other words, to achieve something positive, such as the fight against smuggling, you are putting another gigantic port into the public. This creates conditions for greater opacity and minimise the possibility of achieving the objective of combating smuggling. At the same time, we see in paragraph 4g of this article that you make new important committees by direct decision of the Prime Minister. Also in the next paragraph we see in the next paragraph that the Coordinating Operational Centre gains access to all the necessary information systems of the services involved. This long hand of the state seems to be your most friendly tool in a supposed fight against the monster of the para-economy. Unfortunately, though, gentlemen, with more stamina and more whip you will not achieve anything at all. We have also seen in the bill that they are no longer subject to the special scheme for the taxation of farmers who deliver their production products from people's markets or from their own shops or are exporting. This will be a major blow to our primary sector with mathematical accuracy. Especially now, in critical times of economic and social instability, the farmer and the producer of primary products must be supported more than any other period. I continue for traffic charges and in particular for imported used vehicles. It appears that since 2017 traffic charges will be calculated on the basis of the year that was first reclassified to a European Union country and not only on the basis of the year that took signs in Greece. In other words, older vehicles will have lower charges. Here I would like to agree with my colleague from Potami, Mr Amyras, on his question to the Minister for the Hybrid. I'll wait for his answer. This, in addition to apparent trade effects on free competition, may also have a clear environmental impact, as anti-pollution technologies are developing over time and it is a pity to put a brake on such provisions in the movement of new vehicles. The article we also discussed in committee, for those who owe more than 300,000 euros, whose names you will make public, gives me great pleasure. We will certainly support it, because we are against tax evasion. I am curious because I see that we find scattered articles, which deal mainly with amendments to the VAT Code, which are presented to have retroactive effect. We understand that you have the highest need for revenue, but this insistence on retrospective power of articles eliminates some of our fellow citizens. It is possible to accumulate to the Greek public huge amounts - benefits if we calculate the retroactive effect of the legislation. For example, we see this in Article 50. Unfortunately, this is not the only case. With these actions, the citizen is completely losing his trust in the legislative body and politics in general. It is not every time we need revenue to draw the carpet under the feet of some of our fellow citizens. On the maximum issue of HNVY for disabled people, I am delighted that the Minister has withdrawn it through his amendment. Finally, it is a tragic finding for a left government that, on the one hand, it does not move effectively towards dealing with the wounds of the market, while on the other hand it is increasingly burdening the most productive sectors in our country. And that's not all that's done. It imposes on as many citizens as possible even greater states, even more demonstrable processes to deal with their necessary transactions with the public. Please treat the state more technocratic and less ideological. This will be for the benefit of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. First of all, I was informed that one of the theory films the meeting. I have to say it's forbidden if it does. And if he wants to exercise his film cowardice, please out of the hall. Before entering the list of speakers, Mr. Kontonis wants to present an amendment, and then Mr. Baltas. Mr. Contonis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the amendment we have tabled. It concerns a number of serious issues, but for which the National Representation has been involved in the past. First of all, I would like to say to you that in paragraph 1 of the amendment you have before you, there is a change in the composition of the Committee on Professional Sport, and this is to make the functioning of the best and most effective. In this sense, we broaden the possibility of the chairman of the Committee on Professional Sport being not only a retired judge of the Supreme Court of the Ice Bay, but also coming from the very lowest grade. In particular, it refers to the provision that there is now a possibility of being replaced by a chairman of the Board of Appeal. In this way, by extending this possibility, we will not find ourselves in the unpleasant position of having continuous resignations and, after a quarter, it will not be possible for the Committee on Professional Sport to operate as it is at present. We are therefore bringing this amendment to correct this issue and in the next few days the new Committee on Professional Sport will be appointed, by decision of the relevant Minister, to deal with the remaining cases. The second paragraph of paragraph 1 is that in the position of a professor of economics schools, a member of the Ministry of Development's Management and Supervision is now placed, to connect - this is the work of the Committee on Professional Sport - with the competent state agency, which controls the finances of the anonymous football companies and the anonymous sports companies of basketball. We therefore believe that this committee is becoming more operational and effective. Paragraph 2 defines precisely who those athletes who receive the reward are. And the range is limited, so we have a saving of resources from the state budget, but it is clearly stated that we are talking about the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games, the Deaf Olympics and the Chess Olympic Olympic Games. There was, for years, a misunderstanding about which athletes should be rewarded by the state and there were also appeals in the courts. In this sense, it is currently permanently settled and any ambiguity is removed. Paragraph 3 now incorporates, in the law, comments made by the Personal Data Protection Authority regarding the Fans' Card. With full respect for the work and for the people working in this direction, we incorporated the minimum points - because, you know, there was an appeal against the law establishing the fan card, the law was accepted, but there were some comments - especially on the issue of the criminal record. All these remarks are included and today as a single text comes to the vote. The fourth paragraph refers, ladies and gentlemen, to a pathogen, which is a well-known story about football. In other words, there were teams of football teams that, because of their debts, fell into an amateur category and, while the debts were there, there were unpaid workers, footballers, suppliers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u71	And the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u72	The public first and foremost. That is why we are ensuring by this provision, Mr Koutsouko, the revenue that must go to the public fund first and foremost and to the insurance funds. It gave the association the opportunity for another entrepreneur to set up another OIP, which most of the time followed the previous route. He was raising some charges, creating debts, falling again we had this situation. So that ends the regime. And it ends on September 1st, since the current season, because the cruising change took place in February. And after my own positions and after the opinion of the Committee on Professional Sport has now been delivered, this system has to be kept to the margin. We thought, however, that it was particularly burdensome for some who knew the previous situation to find themselves at the end of February in the face of a surprise. And we said this ends and ends in the next season. Those who, in other words, undertake such obligations should be aware that these obligations will be dealt with under the new legislative framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u73	Minister, delays are over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u74	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u75	To understand the humble, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u76	That's right, Mr. Yakumate. Unfortunately, the legislation of the previous governments has allowed this situation and even so that this situation is not perpetuated we are coming today and we are taking these measures. Finally, the last paragraph concerns the question of the establishment by the domestic federations, the Greek federations of the Ethics Commission. You are already aware that too many federations have completed this work and even with the support of the PHF. The Greek Football Federation, which had the largest and most reactions, has been adapted in this direction, which is the direction of resolution and control of all those who are specifically active in football and sport, because this provision concerns all those federations which the international federations have a similar ethics committee. We therefore call on the Greek federations to adapt them to what is internationally applicable by the international federations and confederations. We believe these provisions are in the direction of democratisation, control, transparency and the protection of public revenue. And in that sense we invite you to vote in favour of them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u77	So do we. Mr Baltas has the floor to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. The amendment relates to a simple matter, the extension of fixed-term contracts to works by the Ministry of Culture by self-sufficient representation, so that these works can be incorporated from the previous to the next NSRP. The resources relate to the ESDP itself. Therefore, there is no additional cost beyond the ESRB itself. And in order to have a picture of what is important for Parliament to know, I will say a few words from this Step. The two projects mainly deal with digital issues. One is the mapping of all archaeological sites. Once this project has been completed, we now have on a Greek scale all the archaeological zones A, B, C at full topographical level. So, problems that I'm building on what terms I'm building, and so on, they're finalized. And the second is equally important - and this is about digitality - is the census of all mobile archaeological objects. So a digital inventory of the country's cultural wealth. They were not able to complete these for objective reasons in the previous NRP. They enter and have been accepted in the new NSRF. And because there were various kinds of delays that do not concern our Ministry, but the whole situation as it stands in connection with integration projects, we are calling for these already employed contracts to be extended there, because if the delay is interrupted and reopened, it will be huge. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u80	One question, would you mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u81	Not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u82	But how do we vote, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u83	Mr Alexiadis, you have two legislative improvements to present soon enough. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u84	One concerns Article 47 of the explanatory memorandum, the other Article 5 and the other Article 37 of the draft law. It's real corrections. The important thing is in Article 49 where it clearly states that paragraphs 3 and 4 are deleted and paragraph 5 is renumbered in paragraph 3. It is the provision on the issue of discounts and exemptions from HNVIA. The second piece of legislation relates to a change in wording in Article 40 of the explanatory memorandum, but not to the bill. It concerns Article 2 of Amendment No 585 where the previous sentence was ‘exempted from the registration fee’ and ‘except for ambulances and special mobile groups’. It goes away now and says that ‘all types of cars, vehicles, new or used, as well as ambulances and special mobile units are exempted from the registration fee’. So this is how we resolve the specific issue of donations - I remember - to the Greek public. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which read as follows:]] CHANGES SEL. [[We'll get the pedals in. 131-132a]] CHANGES SEL)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u85	Did we hear all right? Is the amendment corrected by legislators? What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I ask why I ask Mr Balta. It's a clear question. We are called upon to vote and we need to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u87	Here you go, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u88	I would therefore like to ask Mr Balta if the work to which he referred is part of the ESDP or is going to be included. And, because you spoke of self-confidence, of the same work runs as contractors?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u89	Mr Baltas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u90	Both projects are projects that were included in the previous one and have been accepted as phasing in the next one. There is a moment from which the new NSRP begins and it must now be covered by the workers themselves. It is within the normal program of the whole of the previous and its whole program from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u91	The first is on the list of speakers, Mr Panos Skouriakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the first question I tabled as a Member of Parliament in March 2015 was precisely about the fight against smuggling in tobacco products. The answer I had received at the time was that for the government it is a matter of immediate priority and will deal with tensions in dealing with it. Here, then, when this bill comes to Parliament today, which can only have positive effects on health and the economy. Given that the outbreak of the smuggling of tobacco has enormous repercussions on the Greek economy, but also on the health of the citizens who use illegal tobacco products, the government, in this draft law, submits its intention to go directly against the para-economy and tax evasion. However, in the intervening period the government did not sit with crucifixed hands. It succeeded, through controls against smuggling, to increase revenues to 49% of the 8% in 2014 on the Government of New Democracy - PASOK. Little note. From 2009 to 2014 we had a 20% increase in smuggling, because the governments then fired customs officials. Interesting note is that from 2012 to 2014, Minister of Administrative Reform was Mr. Mitsotakis. The consequences of illegal trade in Greek society, therefore, according to studies, are to increase organised crime, to reduce state revenues. In 2013 alone, according to IOBE, state funds lost about 600 million, money that could go to wages, pensions, social benefits. There was also uncontrolled access to illegal cigarettes for minors. We have lost jobs and revenues for the legal tobacco chain, industry and commerce. The fall in sales of the legal chain has the effect of threatening fifty thousand jobs, while owners of pavilions and pilgrims are leading to the closure of their businesses and the loss of income for themselves and their employees. Finally, the risk to public health is important. Illegal tobacco products are not subject to any quality control and the minimum hygiene conditions are not complied with when they are produced. According to laboratory analyses of the General Chemistry of the State, heavy metals, tobacco waste, foreign materials such as animal hair, feathers and pieces of plastic and chemical products of unknown origin have been detected in their content. If, then, cigarettes do harm health once, the use of these illegal products causes multiple damage to the health of the citizens. The objectives and interventions set out in the draft are: Firstly, the control of the movement of tobacco products and their production equipment in order to be rational, efficient and functional. Secondly, the introduction of a full licensing system, while at the same time - and this is important - the Minister of Finance has the opportunity to lay down the conditions for granting licences. At the same time, I consider it important to review existing permits within one year. Thirdly, the recommendation for the first time in the Single Central Register for the Supply Chain of Tobacco and Industrious Tobacco. Fourthly, the establishment of the Coordinating Business Centre, which will operate as an information hub and will refer to an Interministerial Committee, and its main objective will be the joint cooperation of all the audit bodies. Fifthly, the ban on the sale of tobacco products by using evolving technology or the Internet. Finally, the establishment of a register on the whole tobacco production and movement chain maintained in the electronic system of customs, while fully recording the supply chain and establishing a unique identification code for each tobacco product. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the government respects its programme of commitment to the Greek people to combating tax evasion, smuggling and protecting the health of citizens. I welcome the tabling of this bill and I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u93	We too welcome the timeliness. Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have brought a bill with an extremely heavy title, with an issue that really needs to be fought and on which the New Democracy, as you can see, has a constructive opposition, because the interest of the Greek people is indeed to combat smuggling. But I have some questions to put to you. The first question is: Nicoludis had prepared a relevant draft law. I have to tell you that in my opinion it was extremely much better today and extremely daring. What's the change from Mr. Nicoludi's final plan? And the more general rumour that moves that the reason for Mr.Nicoloudi's dismantling from the government was exactly that of the ambition, is it consistent with the reduction of expectations from the original attempt of SYRIZA Government by Nikoloudis in the final attempt by the SYRIZA Government by Alexiadis? The second question, which is very important, was raised by our rapporteur with great courtesy. I as Minister of Health, Mr Alexiadis, was the first Minister in the European Union to ratify the World Health Organisation Protocol. It was then seen as an inappropriate act within the Council of Ministers of the European Union, because, as you know, the European directive, which you are currently dominating, did not exclude tobacco industries from the fight against smuggling and from the electronic tracking system. On the other hand, the World Health Organisation directive explicitly prohibits any involvement of the tobacco industries in the electronic tracking system. You ratify the European directive, I am sure, two weeks ago, the European Union finally ratified the World Health Organisation Protocol. So the directive will change as well. So, this is a backlock battle. Look, Minister, it's not a secondary matter, it's a primary issue. The people simply say that: 'Will we keep the wolf?'. Minister, will you have the wolf guard the sheep? Because we all understand how much money we are talking about, how much interests we have to deal with here, and I do not say that our government has done it perfectly, to be honest. I, as Minister for Health, asked you to speed up procedures for the installation of an electronic tracking system for tobacco and alcohol products with the exception of the tobacco industries, so that we can have the maximum effect. After all, SYRIZA's rapporteur, where she mentioned the difference between the illegal use of tobacco products in Greece with other countries, rightly said it - maybe she did not know it, perhaps she did not have time to say it - 'the main reason with other countries using such electronic tracking systems'. That's the way, modern, you can stop smuggling. To understand those watching us, the smuggling of cigarettes and alcohol is a top issue. Because, for example, how you will build a health policy - there was my involvement as Minister of Health at the time - to raise taxes, the so-called sin tax, cigarettes and alcohol - a basic direction of European policy - when you do not have the way to stop smuggling. In Greece, as much as increasing taxes on tobacco products, the State's revenues are falling, because it will simply increase smuggling. The reason why smuggling will increase is because we have not put the electronic tracking system in place. But with this bill, as you have brought it, you will not be able to fight smuggling and I bet. Make a bold move, get out front. Don't stay back, do it better than us, say "bravo"! That's extremely big. Here we are dealing with a Greek people who are being diagnosed and we are all obliged to do our utmost to ensure that the money we can get from where it really exists to help those of our fellow citizens who need it. That is our real responsibility, and there is no need for loneliness here. Our rapporteur, Mr Anastasiades, has told you very well. On Mr Nicoludi's bill, I have his final version here for those who need it, to make the necessary comparisons. The day after night. The reason why you know that. Possibly Mr. Tsipras too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u95	One example?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u96	I will give you many examples. The whole process of electronic tracking in Mr Nicoludi's bill is extremely much more detailed and much more thorough. Take this and change your own article. I shall now go to another question which I would like to ask you, Minister, which I consider to be extremely important. You know at one time in this House, ladies and gentlemen - I have done the Minister myself, and I know how it can be done, I have never done it myself, and I consider it to be a bad thing for the House - within a bill you have several extremely technical provisions which are very difficult to deal with by the Members in the time the debate is going on, made in fact for the experts and if they notice it. Article 40(11)b. Mr. Contonis, I'm glad you're here, because you're human and justice as a lawyer, but also fair. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 5 of that Article, the words ‘which affect the calculation of the tax debt’ shall be replaced by the words ‘from which it appears that the tax debt exceeds what was determined after the initial audit’. I am sure that most Members will not even be able to pay attention to this article. But what does this article say? It says that the Secretary-General is entitled to order a re-check of tax matters only if it is at the expense of the taxpayer. First of all, Minister, that is - you understand - directly unconstitutional. What will only say 'if it is to the detriment of the taxpayer'? So, if the taxpayer's right, where will he find his point? Don't tell me at Commission 70A, as you say. She meets every six months, and you have to have 50%. If you don't have 50%, you can't take it. So it's a mock. Or to justice, where do we know how long it takes and how long it goes? Why exactly, if the re-checker proves that the taxpayer is right, should this not be taken into account? I want an argument. Tell me about this: Yes, gentlemen, we are discovering from the re-checker that the taxpayer has been wronged, but we will bypass the re-controller and have been wronged by the taxpayer. First of all, you understand that this is very unconstitutional. You're here to be fair. You're not here to, perhaps, do tax relief, because you're a tax agent. If the Secretary-General of Income does not have the right to re-check in favour of the taxpayer, obviously the tax payers involved in alpha control are benefiting. And it can be a kind of fellow solidarity on your part. That's the innocent version. Because there's more difficult. Because of your origin, Kavala, you are well aware that a huge case has been pending in the courts, in which self-determinations have been carried out, in which there have already been condoms and in which you are intervening with this article. I cannot believe that you, a tax-approved and specialist, acting by Kavala, do not know these cases. Why are you doing this? But let's leave it from Kavala. It's a secondary matter. I like the realm. Why, seriously, should the taxpayer not, if he is right, benefit from the re-checker? And why do you have to trouble him? What is the real reason behind this decision? I want equality. Yes, of course, if the state has to take taxes, get them. But if the state doesn't have to take taxes, don't take them. Why do we have to do this, Mr. Quick? Aren't you insurrected?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Georgiadis, finish because the time has long elapsed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u98	I'm so sorry, Mr. President. You're absolutely right. These are my questions, Minister, and I hope we will receive concrete answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u100	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u101	I'm not going to take the personal speech. I will overcome the reference to a specific big tax evasion case and the fact that one of the companies involved is in Kavala, in my home country, where I am fortunately born and raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u102	We like Kavala. It's nice, enjoy her!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u103	It's an amazing city with amazing people. However, Mr Georgiadis, until the speech I make this afternoon, it seems that you have not been informed. You need to know exactly about this case, get informed of the parties involved...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u104	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u105	Please. You need to be informed. I have already answered the substance of Article 40b and there is no question of unconstitutionality. This has been judged. This provision has been in force for ten years. Now some people have decided on unconstitutionalism because they are involved in this particular case...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u106	If it was true...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Georgiade, please listen to the gentleman. Minister of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u108	Wait a minute, Mr. Georgiadis, don't rush. Listen to me. Get up to my speech this afternoon. In my speech this afternoon we will say names and addresses and you will have a full answer. I can assure you that I have already spoken before, not to say the same thing again and time is lost, and I have answered the political questions you have said. In this case, I am overcoming my staff, my origin, etc. Not only is the case of tax evasion favoured by this article not only, but it is precisely the opposite. Beg your pardon, be informed by afternoon in my speech and you will have the full answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u109	I'll listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u110	You should be aware that important things will be heard in my speech, which I will also ask for from the PASOK party, which brought the matter, and from you to take a specific position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Gregus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u112	You are advertising your speech very much, Minister. Give us a "trailer". Tell us some more evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u113	All right, a little "trailer" was, Mr. Amyra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. So we will be looking forward with great interest to the Minister's speech in order to learn that information. The bill we are debating today is not just of economic interest. It concerns health issues, but it also employs thousands of workers and millions of consumers. There have again been amendments which are irrelevant, such as those of the Ministry of Sport. We were expecting, Mr. Contony, that you would bring a new sports law, as you said, which would be complete. I simply cannot understand why an amendment is now coming back to an unrelated bill. You were supposed to have a proposal ready and soon. We'll wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u115	Don't you know we've given it to consultation? There's a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u116	I know I've seen the articles in the consultation. Except that the problems in sport are huge, especially in football. You know them very well. I've seen the articles that the bill mentions. We wait for him to come to the House immediately, because they run the deadlines, the championship begins, and we will find them in front of us. Because we talked about staff and customs, we also formally complain that the customs offices of the country are constantly going through cars, whose plates mark that "NS" and the paper that the customs authorities must put. Thessaloniki and Halkidiki have been filled with these vehicles, and not only private vehicles, and even tourist buses we have seen, which have this badge, the “MK”. There's something to be done about it, too. As is well known, experts who either act alone or within the framework of organised illegal circuits move large quantities of smuggled cigarettes both in Athens and Thessaloniki, in the center of Athens or in the Aristotle Plaza. Smuggling cigarettes are moved through 'cigarettes', which are some young girls, some women, who move these products, but also many other members of illegal organizations at very low prices, whether individually or in packages or even in whole packages, that is, in boxes. The storage areas - to know and say what is happening - are always close to these points. Of course, there is never a check, although on many occasions too many complaints have been made. Economic tolerance, which is afflicting our country, obliges many impoverished citizens to buy these products, as their prices are too low - almost half of the legal tobacco products. These cigarettes are unknown from their origin - they are separated into Greek and foreign - but they are mostly an unknown recommendation. According to the President of the Macedonian Smoke Association, these illegal cigarettes may contain animal waste, by-products, but even heavy metals or uncontrolled chemicals and various other products, destructive to health. The consumption of these illegal cigarettes certainly multiplys the harmful effects of smoking on health. The Greek State, as we have said, suffers an obvious financial damage both in the level of loss of revenue from tax foregone and in the long term the payment of medical expenses in the context of public health due to the serious health problems caused by the widespread consumption of such illegal products to the Greek people. We have tabled a relevant question. In summary, in Article 9, in which we vote against, the important problems of the application of the provision are left to the adoption of a ministerial decision. Therefore, the provision is characterised by ambiguity and may be interpreted in the appropriate manner. In Article 2, which we are also voting against, implementing rules are again laid down by ministerial decisions. There is a particular emphasis on the use of electronic means and we have reservations about its proper implementation. We are also voting against Article 3. What are the reliable and independent sources referred to in paragraph 3 in case of (a)? What is the responsibility of the national licensed tobacco industry and certain licensed professional tobacco-producing laboratories, if any of the customers and suppliers proves to be a smuggler in the future? We are also voting against Article 4. There is a serious chance that it will undermine the emerging technology and the ability it provides. It is also a question of creating a regulatory framework. Therefore, even using new means, it will be possible to identify a smuggling product. Article 5 - which we are also voting against - does not ensure that products which are not subject to European Union standards are allegedly not smuggled into our country by these procedures. As far as paragraph 7 is concerned, the competent state services shall also be bypassed by the adoption of the European Commission. A characteristic sample is the subject matter of this law. Finally, it is not ensured that non-participating parties and subsidiaries are incompatible in order to ensure that they do not match the audited party in order to maintain the transparency levels of the proceedings. We are also voting against Article 6, because it is a body that is fully controlled by both the European Commission and the institutions, creditors and others. That doesn't change the fact that the Prime Minister will introduce it. On the contrary, it will be served by persons who are fully controlled and coordinate with the requirements of the above. In Article 7, we are voting 'at present'. This is an article providing criminal penalties for administrative customs infringements. A levy of EUR 156,70 per kilogram net weight of tobacco mixture for electronically heated tobacco products shall be added to Article 9. This is a new product and there should therefore be a tax rate. However, on the other hand, we have no evidence of this, and therefore we do not know how this calculation will occur. We are voting against Article 10 because it concerns companies that do not have their seat in Greece and therefore do not contribute to the development and progress of Greek businesses, which is very important. In Article 11, we are voting 'at present'. It is the refund of the unduly collected amounts to the beneficiaries in order for them to be electronically carried out by transfer order, i.e. by electronic transfer of records to the Bank of Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Article 16, we are voting 'v.'. This specifies the particulars and personal data to be entered in the customs information system as appropriate. There is no safeguard for personal data here. We are also voting against Article 18. It is about exchanges of information and we doubt whether these restrictions will apply. We are also voting against Article 19, because a very important issue is left to his fate and it concerns a number of ministerial decisions. In Article 23, we are also voting 'v.'. The framework for cooperation between Europol and the Hellenic Republic shall be established for information entered in the customs information system. In Article 28, we are also voting 'v.'. We have serious reservations about the scope of cooperation between the two parties involved. Article 29 lays down the exceptions to the obligation to register information in the file of customs investigations where public policy is likely to be affected or pose a threat to public security or harm to individual rights or to the investigation conducted. We are voting 'v.'. Here it creates a framework of insecurity, since at any time one can invoke the threat of public order in a context of insecurity. We are voting on Article 33. Persons affected shall be granted the possibility of bringing proceedings or bringing an action before a court in the event of a breach of their rights in respect of personal data. It is a reasonable provision in the field of justice performance. For Article 40, we could say too much. Of course we are voting against it. We are still voting against Article 41. It is a continuation of the circular issued by Mrs Savvaidou for facilities for small businesses and cooperatives. However, you cannot with a provision deal with chronic tax problems. We are also voting against Rule 43. It is a provision proposed by the OECD. We are also voting against Rule 47. Small farmers and small professionals are affected. This article demonstrates the anti-grassroots and anti-agricultural policy of the European Union, which you are serving.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Comrade, please put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u118	I shall conclude, Mr President. We will also be discussing the amendments later. We have repeatedly said that the fight against smuggling and, more generally, tax evasion can only be done if you implement the Golden Dawn program. We have said it and said it once again that we can only fight corruption and the complexity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u119	So do we. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. The bill we are discussing makes an effort to organise, of course, on the basis of the incorporation into national law of European directives, in order to address the major issue of smuggling in general and, in particular, tobacco products. Of course, we have been in a positive position, while pointing out the gaps that exist and to which the Ministry should pay attention, so that after a long time we said that we had made a mistake and corrected it, as was the case with the evidence and the fines, which, while we pointed out the mistake of the provisions of the Treasury, were not heard and after a long time, since we had a huge loss of revenue, it is coming to correct things. Even so. And not to be like in the ENPIA about the parcels that we pointed out the same thing and it comes after a while to correct them. There was no "damage" here, because the correction is made prior to the issue of the clearers which reflect the obligation of each owner. But there is one big question. Okay, the Treasury's making this effort, and we have to do it, and we all have to help and intensify. There is a more general issue of the loss of financial data for the state. Yesterday's debate spoke from 85 to 100 billion, a burden for the country. The arguments were for height. Since 25 people started, 100 billion says the mechanism that lends us, 85 says the Bank of Greece. Shouldn't that be investigated? Mr. Drasakis was put seriously yesterday, I would say, and he put at least five questions on issues that need to be investigated for the first half of 2015. ‘Should this not be investigated? Shouldn't the other one be investigated?’ he said features. Of course they must be investigated. But these aren't investigated by private detectives. They're not being investigated by some third parties. They must be investigated by specific procedures which the Committee of Inquiry is. And Mr Drasakis himself, who said that they should be investigated, obeyed the party mandate to vote 'no'. Besides, the Prime Minister didn't do the same? While the sunny evening on Monday told us that all the obstacles to the impunity of the ministers will be lifted by constitutional review and, of course, immunity for the Members will be abolished, one day later he had instructed his Members to put a major obstacle to the investigation of the responsibilities of the ministers. So, did he mean removing the obstacles to investigating the responsibilities of the ministers with regard to ministers of other governments rather than their own and ministers? This is the great size of the unreliability of the government, of the Prime Minister himself personally. And, of course, if he has an explanation of his refusal to become an exam for the first half of 2015, can you explain to me why he refuses to consider the period of derailment of the country 2004-2009? Is this only the relationship he's rumored to have with Mr. Karamanlis? Is this only the relationship that led to Mr Pavlopoulou's election to the Presidency of the Republic? Or is it a more dependence on centres that want to protect those responsible at that time of derailment? Questions which are not politically answered must be answered by a committee of inquiry. If, then, you have the courage, the guts and you want to be credible, you have been bringing the proposal for the whole period since 2000, since 1974, since 1967, since World War II, ever since you want to. But bring forward the proposal for the Committee of Inquiry, for the period of derailment and for the conditions under which we were led to the first and second memorandums and, of course, to the third and inappropriate! Mr Alexiadis, some time ago we had a political controversy on the issue of the two hundred seventy-seven-seven-seven-supporters, whose debts were regulated or granted a lot of their fines, since by way of legislative measure the right to join that favourable regulation, which provided for a higher threshold, was granted. The legislative act was also given the right to join. You told us they were two hundred seventy in number. We are still waiting for the evidence that you need to give us so that there is full transparency to whom we have rejoiced as a state and what they have done exactly. A few days ago you posted thirteen thousand seven hundred thirty names of government-suppliers. I was sent to the office a note - and I suppose they have sent to other offices, parliamentarians or others - but I am obliged, after a first cross-check I have made, to submit this information to you and to Parliament in order to provide answers and to investigate the case, so that you do not fall back on a fixed game. Of course, on the basis of what we are discussing today, it is the provision by which you propose, Minister, to extend the time limit for the removal of penalties and fines for fraudulent and fictitious invoicing infringements. I am referring to Rule 45, which you have voted on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some time, Mr President. I would ask you, since you took the pencil, to note the following number: EUR 308.779.218.73, owes four companies of the ones you posted. You know that it is very easy to find the companies with an equation or an equation system, which you will apply. According to a report from the IMO, it tells me the note, these companies are functionally non-existent, virtual and only the purpose of their legal existence is to issue virtual invoices, without any activity. They therefore paid invoices to other companies, in order to avoid tax evasion, to save these types of taxes. Only one company has received invoices of at least EUR 500,000 from these specific four companies, which means it has saved corresponding taxes. The same companies owe 308,000 euros to the public. So we have tax evasion and deception of the public and the regulation as a reward for the virtual companies that received the virtual invoices and committed this huge tax evasion. So I ask: is there any regulation that you propose to extend the scope of certain limits so that at least the big deceasers will not benefit? Or have the limits already been set and I do not know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u121	Put in a question and a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u122	I'm questioning and perfecting, Mr. President. Mr President, please tell us some more about how you intend to process this material you have and all the information I have before you and see whether you need to suspend the application of this provision a little while until you cross-check with the grandparents and the grandparents and the virtual invoices and who they are. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification. These are three different things, Mr Papoutsis: one is that, on the basis of a law prior to the SYRIZA - ANEL government - we did not bring him - at regular intervals, on the basis of a specific procedure and specific criteria are made public over a limit. There is no publicity on the part of the big sellers who have adjusted their debts and who are normally paying for the regulation. That was a law that - I don't know if you were a Member - Members of your House had voted for it. We're applying this law. It's not a new law. It's just a matter of that. Secondly, with regard to the two hundred seventy debtors you mentioned, if they have regulated their debt under the law prior to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, we cannot make their names public, because we are only making this public. For the rest, I have answered you several times in topical questions and so on. As much as we can talk, we will not be able to agree on this. We have different opinions. As far as this article, Article 45 is concerned, I should like to say that we are prolonging a provision of law which was in force last year for a short period of time. It does not concern new cases - we have responded to this in committee - but those cases which could be dealt with in that provision, which can, of course, be dealt with. There is no case for such virtual companies, which have constantly issued such invoices, to come and give us a single euro, because there is no way they will appear and pay. We want to help businesses that were involved in the system of virtual invoices so that they can get away from this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u124	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u125	The data recipient. To be able to get rid of these...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u126	Consciously he did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u127	Mr Kutsukouko, I, of courtesy - and we are former colleagues - am never interrupting you. I don't understand why this is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u128	Okay, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u129	I am trying to say: we are giving the possibility of companies involved in this history, paying a lot of money - it is not free, if you see what they are paying, you will understand - instead of running in the courts and having ten years to get some money, get out of trouble, and we can target major audit cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I would like the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u131	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. We have four legislative improvements in the amendment by the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Three are verbal corrections. The legislation referred to in paragraph 4 shall be clarification of the status of unions in liquidation. I would ask that it be distributed for Members to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u133	The Foreign Minister, Mr Quik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, will you please give me the State Secretary's time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u135	Do you want another seven-minute time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u136	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u137	All right, start now. Let's not waste him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that today's vote on the bill on the fight against smuggling in tobacco is a station, but it should have been registered for many years. I must say that as a Greek citizen, not just as a politician or as a journalist, in my old capacity, I am ashamed that Greece has reached the point of voting for such laws because it was imposed by the institutions through the memoranda. In other words, what the governments of the past years had to do for so many years as an act of responsibility must now be done because they have indicated it to us. And it's not just tobacco. We've got the fuel, too. We've got drinks, too. Unfortunately, neither one or two, but five whole years, is sifting up this bill, which essentially concerns the installation of a traceability system to combat the smuggling of cigarettes. This is a smuggling that the Greek state feels in its fund, but above all they feel in their pockets those who are in every corner of the Greek territory, the pavilators, who have fought to stop tobacco smuggling, when they have actually been charged with excise duty and cigarettes' ends and who say "at least protect us from illegal circuits". It's time to act as a government of responsibility. It is known that the Greek State from smuggling tobacco is damaged close to EUR 800 million per year. I would say that if we put it in three years' time since this debate on traceability has started, we are talking about around EUR 2.5 billion. If we consider that in the third agreement exiting the crisis, the third memorandum, agreed last summer, is provided in the latest articles that, if Greece goes beyond the objective of combating tax evasion, it can unilaterally lift whatever measures it considers to be burdensome - it is well known that households have been charged, money has been cut off by Greek taxpayers for years now with the memoranda - we could have saved with this 2,5 billion from many Greek taxpayers. Installation of the traceability system is provided for in Article 25(3). Nevertheless, I have to say that the planning started earlier and there have also been Greek cooperation with neighbouring countries - one of them was Turkey - to see how the system for combating cigarette smuggling works there, but very little has been done since then. I dare say that the tobacco industries - and it is not only in Greece, because they are multinational companies - seem to resist by demanding that they control their own production, that is, that they be the one who controls it. In fact, those who know things are talking about a strong lobby in the space, exerting pressure on this direction towards the level of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the traceability systems now take a new form with the bill that is being passed today. The signature we are going to sign with the Bank of Greece will come so that the security tape on the tobacco products will no longer be printed to a private person under the supervision of customs, but will be printed directly to the Bank of Greece. I dare say - because I must say - that this was decided in an interministerial office at the Maximos Mansion and it was a proposal from Paul Paul Polakis, who said "I don't understand why we should give it to a private person and not to the Bank of Greece, who also prints the euros". We are talking about a film which is read by a special machine, so the supply chain of the product from the beginning to the end of the sale point is traced back to the co-responsibility of all those who enter the trade, although it is found that they are selling something illegally. This film, which is also the tax collected by the Greek State, has become the subject of great debate and has obviously annoyed many. The paper, as those involved in this story know, is introduced with a uniqueness from abroad. It's a very special piece of paper. I think only two industries around the world print it. We asked the Bank of Greece how many tons of this paper takes time to print the security tapes. We were told a hundred and fifty tons. The relevant Deputy Minister of Finance, looking into his archive, discovered that the orders made by the Greek State so far were two hundred and fifty tons of paper. So the reasonable question arises, where were the hundred tons to avoid winning what the patrons deserve, not winning the Greek state and winning by those who wanted to rob us all together. And that's not all, but from the Step of the House, I have to say that to our partner, who is in particular concerned with the issue of film and, from the Ministry of Finance, about the fight against the smuggling of tobacco products, she was set up one night outside the house of the inflatable brass. One caught him from the neck and said to him: "With what you got into, think about your wife and your children." Convicted to the police. They also reached the incredible misery - the same center - to say, to degrade us, that the Deputy Minister of Finance, Alexiadis, and I, because we are involved in this story, have common business, business. The little ones! The little ones! Of course, I made it public at once, just to cut them off every once in a while. And they bluffed. However, the Internal Affairs Directorate is investigating it. We'll figure out who they were. We also have to say that in all things it is now coming both in the range of fuels and drinks. In the last month alone, the police and financial services of the General Secretariat of Public Income have been excursions and two gangs of "bombs" drinks have been revealed, which our children drink. It's death! As well as tankers. They will finish tankers that enter the northern border empty, fill oil, duty-free fuel, and leave the country empty, because somewhere else they are transfusing them. There is also a series of'sleeps', which are obliged to have both GPS and input-output systems with ministerial decisions. Here I must say that the Directorate-General for Customs is helping and doing an excellent job. As we also have cooperation with the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, but also with the legislative work of the Deputy Minister, Tryphoon Alexiades, with whom we work closely. For my part, and on behalf of the Independent Greeks, we attach great importance to combating tax evasion and smuggling. And our next step will be the supply of scanners, those self-propelled systems that can see what's inside the container. And a job the customs do with their hands in their eighth, four five containers, because they can't do more...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Quick, let's get this over with so that we don't cut you off on the "air".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u140	That's good! Well, thank God you won't throw ads! Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against tax evasion and smuggling by the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, the Greek state's obligation for years has really taken flesh and bones in the most official way in this Parliament of the Greeks, from this government. And we ask all opposition parties to support it. It is an obligation to those who give a day-to-day struggle for the legal order and it is an obligation to be able to end with criminal gangs, with the folklores that may have been most of them and political friends of the former governments who did not want to touch them, because they may have lost their clientele. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u141	So do we. Mr Juliarakis has the floor to present an amendment for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to table an amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance on rationalising the payment of the deduction of pensions, allowances and pensions unduly paid. This amendment actually facilitates low pensioners to return, to repay sums which may have been paid by the Greek State in error. In particular, it introduces an income criterion into the amount to be reimbursed each month. What is now, to remind you of this, is that, as a general rule, all sums unduly paid in a short period, regardless of the amount of the taxpayer's pension and income. What we are introducing here is an income criterion. For pensions of up to EUR 1000, each month shall be paid equal to 1/10 of the pension and for each additional EUR pension shall be paid 1/6 of the pension, until the sum of the sums wrongly paid has been paid. I would like to make it clear that this amendment has no budgetary costs, it has no financial effect, for the very simple reason that these are amounts which had not been budgeted. In other words, they are amounts that have not been entered in the budget as revenue. So it's a net benefit anyway. I think that this provision makes it easier for a large category of low-retireees to meet both their obligations towards the state and obviously their daily lives. I am tabling the amendment on the Minutes. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Georgios Tuliarakis, presents for the Minutes this amendment, which reads as follows:]] Change Page [[To enter pages 179-190]] Change Page
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Theocharis from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u144	But, Mr President, he is now an independent MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u145	I'm sorry. Developments are so rapid that I can't catch up with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u146	But even the BBC said so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u147	I can't get through things. I apologise, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u148	It's all right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u149	What do we call it the party, Mr. Theochari?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u150	We call it 'Democratic Responsibility'. For the House, I'm Independent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u151	It's a matter of my responsibility to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u152	You must apologise to us, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u153	It is a matter of responsibility for the Bureau. Thank you very much, Mr President. We have now heard the Minister support for this amendment, which is positive for pensioners' overpaid. It is a positive amendment. Of course, he said in a revulsion that these amounts have not been entered in the budget. It's interesting. Are there any other amounts not entered in the budget? How can any sums not be entered in the budget, Mr Juliaraki? Why are some amounts not entered in the budget? That makes us a little worried about the quality of the data. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has finally come for the government's secret weapon, the bill against smuggling in tobacco and fuels. In addition, Mr. Marda and Mr. Nikoloudis announced the programme statements in February 2015. I know, Mr Manda, that is a 'last year', but the programming declarations have some value. You may write them in your old shoes, but at last some value must have what we say and especially what we say in the House. What are you going to collect with this bill? Unknown amount, the General Accounting Office of the State tells us. Mr Mardas expected EUR 2.3 billion from the fight against smuggling of tobacco and fuel and EUR 2.5 billion from the lists. These are unnoticed when in the next few months we will be dealing with whether or not the 'cutter' will fall. However, it is a positive step that the bill is finally being voted on. Let me remind you of my personal actions in relation to traceability. We did with the General Chemistry of the State a technical study to trace fuels, but unfortunately no tracer was found that was not "washed out". At that time I also spoke with Ireland, who, in collaboration with Great Britain, was looking for the same period and found a good tracker, but the contractor was not interested because of the size of the Greek market. I hope you have better luck and the technology has made progress since then. In tobacco we did the studies that laid the foundations for the current provisions. Consider only compatibility with European Union regulations and changes made by the World Health Organisation. Of course, ensure independence from tobacco companies too. The Coordinating Operational Center was launched with the Interministerial Committee that we created in 2014 with the participation of the Chief of Police and the Chief of the Port Body, including under my supervision. Unfortunately, the positives are stopping up - down here, important but not enough. On the articles, Mr Alexiadis. With this bill, if you have elementary sensitivity, you should resign. How do you come and bring this provision for the fines? Repeat fines for not issuing proof, which you yourself abolished nine months ago. Instead of rationalising fines then, you have abolished them in total. And you admit that your choice was disastrous for public revenue. A parentheses: For days now, a false campaign has been launched for what you have received from the lists. One day we hear about 1 billion, 800 million the next, 136 million said a few minutes ago, Mr. Kammenos here, from this Step. Only ambiguity and different numbers show the lie. The truth? I give you the latest information in April 2016 of the General Secretariat of Information Systems: 58.8 million JEPs, 21.5 million JEPs. A total of 80 million. This is the revenue you have from these cases. Most of these cases are in these two major centres. So where are these ghost revenues? In your imagination. In addition, tax revenues have so far been marginal. If you have 1 billion revenues from old tax cases and lists, then regular tax revenues have escaped by 1 billion. What's going on? I was in favour of streamlining the fines of the Code of Books and Elements. I told you when we were talking about prerequisites. And I read exactly what I said at the time: 'Prices are now only if there is VAT. For example, doctors who have no VAT will no longer make sense to send tax credit to the doctors. Because there's no fine anymore if the doctor doesn't cut evidence. Heavy announcements go about the workshops coming out in Kolonaki and cutting fines. Besides, it won't make any sense and all the cases of small evidence in the bars. To get 10, 20 euros, uncut proof will have 1.5 to 3 euros fine. It won't even be worth the taxi gasoline that went to the bar to cut the fine." So don't say you don't know. We've been telling you here. So you confess you made a mistake as apprentice magicians. Take it back. However, with the new provision, fines exist only if there is VAT: doctors and nurses. Any service exempted from VAT shall be unavoidable. In Article 45: What are you doing? You are extending the grace period from fines to large ones. You have given millions of big taxmen who, after having escaped Mykonos, went and made their marriages to Rome, to the taxpayer. And of course you're putting the fines on the cheese pie. A little shame wouldn't hurt. Why do you exclude public and legal entities from the disclosure of debtors? Why wouldn't the public bump not see it? Make special lists. Sure. No, but no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And finally, why can the General Secretariat of Public Revenue introduce additional exemptions? The whole framework was defined by the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue or by the whole legislative framework. This is where we see windows. And we come to Mr Alexiadis' last amendment yesterday. I'm opening a parentheses. We have now seen legislative improvements in the explanatory statement. Withdraw legislative improvements to the explanatory statement. They don't make any sense. In the laws. So let me start with two proposals. In the provision for the tax certificate to be optional, but add at the end of the first paragraph: ‘It shall be taken into account in the selection criteria for the control of the undertaking in accordance with Article 26 of the Act. 4174.’; Please suspend the payment of the additional ENVIRONMENT for the parcels for 2016. So SYRIZA puts a tax on the fields. It's just parole for a year. Let the Greek people know. How much tax? It's 230 million, the State General Accounting tells us. He doesn't abolish the tax. He's been stalling him for a year. What's he saying? He says: 'The time I will not rule will be another, another government problem'. This is where your election plan seems. Why do you exclude the service in the private sector from the criteria for selecting directors of GATT until 31-12-2016? Indeed, in view of the establishment of the Independent Public Income Authority, I would remind you that by the May Recommendation, those who are now appointed managers also proceed to the new beginning. That is a pity, ladies and gentlemen. You're making it easier for your own children and you're trying to prevent developments, because then you won't be in control. Ladies and gentlemen, we are tired of starting with heavy announcements, seeing how far you were from reality, changing everything, adding unreasonable provisions and amendments, and the final result cannot be recognized. We have reached the most important debate today to be your naughty retreat to ENPIA. So the beginning of the end came for your government and does not save you from throwing the ball at the platform, the Constitution and the electoral law. See the steps: axe to the ESS, defeat to the ERAS, dismantling of the labour market, persecuting the firms because of insurance contributions, passive monitoring of the eruption of bankruptcys, "MARINOPOULOU" and "JETOIL", cancel financing of the minimum guaranteed income, and finally, the great dilemma, new measures or cutter. He's going to fall. Don't worry. It will fall into the service of your insensitive and incompetent government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, I would like to reply to the honourable Member's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u155	You have the floor, Minister, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u156	I want less than a minute, Mr President, to reply. When expenditure is entered in the budget, it is not entered as expenditure unduly paid, because no one knows that they are wrongly paid. So there is no corresponding revenue. Where the need for a refund appears, it is usually within the framework of a financial year, that is to say six months, which is normally not included in the budget. Be absolutely certain that the Public Accounting System is one of the most valid in Europe, and that is reflected in the results of the primary surpluses of the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, too. Mrs. Vanja has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today another draft law that aims to put order in some difficult sectors of the economy, such as tobacco smuggling and the Tax Code. A large part of the bill, of course, concerns the integration of European decisions and directives. I do not intend to refer to this part, since we do not have much choice as a Member State of the European Union. As far as the measures envisaged are concerned to deal with the illicit trade in or even smuggling of tobacco products are concerned, I believe that they are in the right direction. Its problem in any way avoids tax or even worse tax evasion, especially in high-tax products, is huge and global. I am one of those who believe that taxation must be fair, objective, proportionate and at such levels that the payment of taxes by citizens is possible and therefore also collected by the state. The indirect taxes are by definition unfair and our aim is to be a small place only in relation to the direct ones. In any case, however, in a favoured, modern democracy, the existing laws must be applied until we consider that the conditions allow or enforce their change. It is high time that we also put new technologies in the service of the state, but also practices that allow more effective controls on the movement of products, ensuring both consumer protection and the collection of taxes provided for by the law. In the same sense we must approach the improvements to the Tax Code. It is a matter of fairness and equitableness among taxpayers to pay taxes from everyone and to combat tax evasion. The punishment of what is avoiding, in the end, the social system must work both repressively and dissuasively. Obviously, the treatment of tax evasion must not be exhausted by repressive measures. First and foremost, it must be based on the culture of fiscal consciousness and mutual trust between the citizen and the state. The catalytic factor in achieving this objective is recompense. When the citizen feels that the taxes he pays returns to him as benefits, he will be happy to contribute. Unfortunately, there are many decades in which the citizen has had an irreversible and wasteful state, which has wiped out his labor without returning them absolutely anything. That is the great bet and the effort of this government, if it proves in practice that the state is there, by the citizen, and to restore this relationship of confidence. Finally, I want to stress the conditions for the integration of farmers into the special VAT system, which has been a great deal of talk over the last few years. First of all, I must say that there is no change in the conditions for joining the special scheme, as such. The addition relates to the issue of a specific element for deliveries of own agricultural products, for agricultural services carried out by farmers under the special scheme, i.e. in the way in which the value of the products available is demonstrated, which so far has not even existed as a legislative provision. Is there someone who disagrees with that? Is there anyone here who does not know that products leaving the producer without documentary evidence continue as black to the final consumer, without paying any taxes either on the value or on the goodwill they gain in the course and, of course, on the profit of the intermediaries? The small producer of the special scheme has absolutely no problem with this regulation. On the contrary, mediators will be forced to present their profits and tax them. With regard to those farmers who are in the special scheme, but who also have other activities, which are covered by the normal VAT system, the rules which apply to them as a whole to the normal scheme can only be classified as favourable. They have absolutely no additional burden because, in any case, the management costs of the books are already borne by their parallel activity. In addition, their taxable income is reduced by taking account of the costs of agricultural activity. The middlemen, of course, are again forced to show their profits and to pay the tax. So whoever insists that farmers are affected is sure that they are not with farmers, but are with others. Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that the agricultural profession is a serious profession and cannot be treated as either a passive or a means of tax evasion. It is for the benefit, in particular, of farmers and of the national economy as a whole, of the integration of professional farmers into the normal VAT system and of the keeping of books. This will answer the well - known chronic riddle about how the price of agricultural products from the field on the shelf can be doubled. So the draft law is, in my view, in the right direction, and I am convinced that it will solve problems. I therefore propose that he vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u159	And we're managing time. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotaros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Within the memorandum of indulgence and lust, you are bringing you another delayed bill - as you say - with the amendments of the National Customs Code, particularly on issues relating to the illicit trade in tobacco products and other issues relating to the Ministry of Finance. Our speaker and our speakers have also referred to the principle and the articles on what the Golden Dawn thinks. I'd like to stand on Article 50. At a time when you are increasing VAT to products and services to all Greek citizens who are on the islands - islands go! - that you crush free traders, tourism, focus, are exempted - as you say - from VAT on 1 December 2015, and with retroactive effect the supply of goods and services to the organizations mentioned therein and the embassies of States with a view to making public services in the public sector, OTAs, legal persons governed by public law and others available without consideration, in order to meet the needs of refugees. Racism and unequivocal discrimination against Greek citizens - who happen to be the permanent residents of this blessed but long-standing place - for the benefit of illegal, illegal immigrants, Islamists and all those who have entered our country illegally and a few refugees, so that we can do your work. Really, why are you a cartoon of humanists? Why are you facilitating the delivery of food and services only to illegal immigrants and not to the very winter people, our millions of afflicted compatriots? You all know that they go after the people's markets end and go through the trash to find anything rotten to get them to eat at home. The tens of thousands of homeless Greek fellow citizens are now sleeping on benches. Why are you a cartoon of humanists? Why do you not include with all these above and the millions of our Greek fellow citizens? It is rather issues where your selective anti-racism and illegal immigration do not even allow you to understand and deal with them. And I want to make a comment on the term 'death immigrant'. Some government ministers, and in particular Mr Moussalas, in questions from the Golden Dawn in parliamentary control, do not answer, because - he says - that there are no smugglers. Let us explain to Mr Mouszala that the term "lathonian" is a formal terminology of the European Union that so much loves and is the official terminology that exists in the operation of the Greek state. In fact, there is also a police service, the Illegal Immigration Service. If you think you can change all this, then change this bill and not talk about tobacco smuggling, talk about irregular tobacco trafficking and not talk all day long about smugglers but about irregular tobacco dealers and traffickers. We are talking about that going beyond the limits of anti-racism and overcoming and touching the gang's boundaries, to know what's going on. As for the fight against smuggling, no matter how hard you try, no matter what repressive measures you take. Firstly, because they find, there are buyers of all these illegal tobacco products, sold at very low prices, less than 50%, than they are sold at the legal sales points, which are mostly the stands and the whips. This is very much about the economic situation of the Greeks, which is currently at a tragic level. And of course one who is unemployed or one who is rewarded with 100 euros per month, as you have made them - one hundred and twenty-seven thousand of our compatriots are paid at 100 euros a month and another two hundred fifty thousand, about 400 euros minus a month - will obviously go looking for the cheapest cigarette, wherever that is, whether it is controlled quality or not, or anything else. How will you stop smuggling tobacco products, when our country is bordering Bulgaria, a neighbouring country, which is also in the European Union. On substance, there is no border control, there is no customs. Will you tell me where there are customs offices, are they working? It is such that the customs downgrading of our country's homeland is at Evros in the Gardens, Ormeni, or at the border with Albania, Skopje and elsewhere, it is such subsecution and degradation, which is, of course, impossible to control all the smugglers, who are always in a step forward. In addition, there is, of course, the lack of systems which could control, to some extent, the illicit trafficking of tobacco products and other products, such as scanners. We are constantly listening to what will be placed in ports, and they will, if necessary, be placed in some customs offices, at the entrances of our country, but we are always listening and not seeing. They say it's the big cost. But if you put them in the balance to see the lost revenues of the state, the public from the illicit trafficking of these products, you will see that it would help you to have put these scanners at all the points of entry of our country. Another reason why the smuggling of tobacco products cannot be combated is that our homeland has a wide range of maritime borders - and the subscribing of the Port Body, which, apart from being smuggled, has a large part of the means in which it does not have the means, that is to say, if anyone wants to do their job. The most important thing of all, especially over the last half of a year and a half, is that, in essence, the Port House has been dealing solely with the protection of borders, along with the Navy, but with the collection of illegal immigrants, their feeding and everything else. So within all this is the joy of the smuggler right now, our homeland, to do whatever it really likes. You could have taken some other measures too. Everyone tells you, you know it, but from what we see you do nothing but nothing at all. All indicators show you that, as far as VAT is increased, taxes or excise duties, such as tobacco products, are reduced. And you insist that you constantly increase VAT, whether indirect taxes or anything else. You see it as a tactic, a vicious circle negative to the economy, and you are not exemplified by other countries that are sometimes using it, such as Ireland, for which you say that it has come out of the programme that the European Union has put up with, and now it has a great deal of growth, seven years later. Yes, but if you read, the huge growth that Ireland has is mainly due to low VAT and the many low tax rates it has introduced in its home country for the people of Ireland. And you go on insisting. Furthermore, another reason for tobacco products, which is indirectly related, is the declining course of traditional pavilions, which, apart from places where each citizen could find tobacco products, together with others, was also an element of the younger cultural heritage. Instead of protecting this, for the benefit of both the pavilions and the Greek citizens, since it is also a folklore element for the center of the city of Athens and for the other cities, you have given the opportunity with your various monumental orders and cheques to sell and cigarettes anywhere except for the kiosks. We'll find them in the supermarkets and soon, as you go, we'll find the cigarettes and the pharmacy. Here in the supermarkets soon we'll find aspirins and debut. We're talking about an insanity, you don't know what's going on. There is one amendment that we shall be voting in favour of. It is the general number 567 and special 105, with which a wall enters, so that there will also be an income for all those selling tobacco products. It is not always possible to shrink the pavilion profit for the public, because eventually this will give handles, for one reason tell you that "if it is me to make a minute in the package, much more easily I can sell a smuggled sack of tobacco and make much more." That is why you see that with your moves and actions you lead the world to illegality in an indirect or direct way. I shall now turn to the amendments. We have the amendment with a general number of 583 and a special 108 on redefinition of the method and the procedure for recovery by way of deduction of sums wrongly paid by pensions, benefits and allowances granted by pensions and provision in the event of termination of pension payments for any reason. We are against this amendment. We are also against Amendment No 587 and a special 111 on the redefinition of the composition of the Committee on Professional Sport of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. We are against Amendment No 586 and Amendment No 110 on the extension of fixed-term private-law contracts to phasing projects carried out using the method of archaeological self-help, because there is a legislative omission regarding the work of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which is not covered by the governments so far. Until now, there has been no provision for co-funded public projects to provide that the master of the project receives financing of archaeological monitoring, life-saving excavations, protection measures, study and findings. We must protect works of care and a simple amendment that ensures an extension of contracts of work is not an effective solution. In Amendment No 570 and in Amendment No 106, we are against. In Amendment No 575, and in particular Amendment No 107, we are against. There is an amendment, which in itself, Minister, is a bill. If the amendment had come under a general number of 585 and a specialist 109 broken down, there might have been something positive about it. But when you bring an amendment which has eleven articles, that is, an entire bill, clearly we cannot vote in favour of it, because we also see photographic provisions here and see a lot of them. And some positive articles that may be there cannot be voted for, because you bring them all together. I repeat that in Amendment No 567 and in Amendment No 105, we are in favour. In addition, we have made a similar comment in the committees. To conclude, I would like to say that there is also the impunity of all those involved in any smuggling. We are constantly seeing that. For the fines you put, there's a lot of talk about this bill. Do you just put them in to register accountable income? Can't you see what's going on with the substance? All you can do is increase private debt to the public, because combined with the redundancy that exists, the destruction in general in the primary sector, clearly, and there is no possibility of paying any fines or anything at all. Of course we also see the large fish that live at the expense of the rest of the Greek citizens. Either because of globalisation, as we have said, they have the potential to escape and escape either because of the many exceptions to the European Union itself. A few weeks ago, a bill - a European Union directive on the possibility of having uniform tax data, but there were a number of exceptions in each country, which is the stepping stone for anyone who wants to get away and not to pay tax revenue to the state in which he lives. Speaking of big fish, we also have a comment. CARREFOUR-MARINOPOULOS cannot be owed by the company 'CARREFOUR' near 1.5 billion euros to suppliers, public and elsewhere, and to see the impunity of everything. Right now that we are here talking about fines and smuggling, the Marinopoulos family, with its luxurious yacht, is on holiday in the Aegean islands and Ionian Pelagos. Either way, within this framework of the unregulated and without any control of your memoriality, there is clearly no going to be salvation on any serious issue that is stirring up the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u161	Mrs Anna Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Next morning in the House, I was prepared to talk about the draft law of the Ministry of Finance. At 10.30 p.m. our rapporteur, Mr Savvas Anastasiades, gave me an amendment on serious sporting issues. We are talking about an article with five paragraphs, irrelevant to each other, a set of twelve pages. I mean, we're talking about a mini bill, which was filed at 21.05 hours last night and came into our hands at 10.30 in the morning. This shows a sloppiness and that the Minister is legislating on the leg. It will, of course, tell us that it is being pressed, because at the end of August the championships are starting and under this pressure it brings them into the bay. I know that for decades the championships have been starting at the end of August. So what is this stress and this panic, when you, according to a statement from the Ministry of Sports of the GAA, said that in May - which passed us, of course - the new great sport law will have been passed. May, of course, passed, we arrived at the end of July. But, Minister, the draft law was shared in the sports community and you didn't even go to take part in the discussions, but you sent the Secretary-General of Sports and thought that we, the opposition parties, would not know about it, but there was no reason to know the draft law that was going to be tabled at some point if it were submitted. Because we know that you have received disagreements and objections from all sports operators and you have not finally dared to bring something complete. Of course, before you some of your companions are also known and may be afraid. Now let's see quickly, because on very serious issues relating to sport, we cannot legislate on the leg and hurry to make any decisions. I listened carefully and I want you to answer me. You justify changing the provision in Article 34(4), because you want to make it clear that the beneficiaries of financial rewards are the sportsmen described in the official programme of the Olympic Games. Right, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u163	Whatever the layout says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u164	Bravo! But the same article, just below, in paragraph 17, case b, says exactly the same. So let me read it to you: "As atomic sports games or group sports included in the Olympic Games program, what is being conducted with the national specifications of the relevant International Federation in the Olympic Games". I mean, you repeat the same thing, that is, maybe you're making fun of us. I'll make it easy for you. You probably want to make it clear that the financial rewards will be fixed not only by you, as has been the case so far, but also by the Minister of Finance and Retrospectives, that is, the first quarter of the year, and that they will relate to the previous, instead of the provision that has been in force so far, which stipulates that within six months of the conclusion of the Olympic Games and four years, but for another reason. So you haven't been properly informed. You are also saying that you are imposing a Code of Conduct even on sports federations, neither the statutes nor the relevant international regulations provide for codes of conduct. I imagine you know that not all federations are being imposed. Minister, is that urgent to get to the amendment? Did the feds ask? Are you concerned? Does the feds agree? And if you know that they agree, we need to know that? I think not. Where will the money from their already cut-off budgets be paid by regular judges? Is it not enough for each federation's disciplinary regulations, which have already been adopted by you in accordance with Article 27 of Law 2725/1999? Is it not enough for you to have existing judicial bodies, at least for all group sports, set up by regular judges, to cover ethical issues? Isn't there S.H.I.E.L.D., tactical justice? You're talking about the online ticket and the fan card. I said that the championships, as you know, start late August. So that's why the pain should have caught you around March, April, and not last minute. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a slogan of scorpioning provisions that despise Parliament and the sport movement itself a few days before the opening of the Olympic and Paralympic Games. That's what we won't consent to. We would ask you very much, Minister, not to do so again, because you are used to us in the form of urgent bills, which include unrestricted provisions. I'll remind you of WADA. Take the amendment back. Bring her in the right way, put her in consultation, pass on to committees, listen to bodies, listen to their opinions, submit their views and then pass to plenary and vote. Leg work can't be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, too. Mr. Stavros Arachovitis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every time a law is passed in this House, we hear incredible wisdom in order to restructure the bill to be passed and all its good news. But the truth is different. The truth is that from tax evasion through the illicit trafficking of smuggled tobacco products, the country has an annual loss close to EUR 800 million. Also, 20% of cigarettes, moving in the country, are illegal. That's the reality. In 2015 by smuggling cigarettes caught in the European Union, 30% was caught in Greece. This was an increase of 48% compared to 2014. This shows two things: firstly, it shows that the services have been activated and, secondly, that the Ministry, the political leadership, has done a very good job. In other words, there is now the political will, in view of this phenomenon, which is plagued by the whole chain, which is a loss of revenue for the public and, at the same time, for professionals and businesses active in the tobacco sector, to deal with it. The law, which comes to a vote, what does it do? It enhances the framework, shields the services, but at the same time organises and coordinates their scattered services and responsibilities. The main point in the law, among other things, is the establishment of the Coordinating Business Centre, which takes over precisely this, the coordination of all services in a centre, in order to have better and more coordinated controls and results. Of course, let us not forget, because it was badly mentioned or misinformed, perhaps, that there is a special permit for tobacco growing issued by the Ministry of Rural Development. I would like to focus on Article 47. Article 47, therefore, comes to correct, reform the special VAT system for farmers. The irrational phenomenon we have of farmers, who have an obligation to keep books and data under the normal VAT arrangements for incomes from another source, is observed, and for incomes from agricultural activities to be part of the special VAT arrangements. These categories of farmers are included for all single activities under the normal VAT arrangements. The second regulation relates to the obligation to issue documents and measure the total income and retail sales. This is mostly the case for retailers in the People's Markets. These people are already part of the normal VAT system, because they know that the normal scheme makes it clear. Let's make it clear that limits to the normal regime do not change. In other words, the limit of EUR 15 000 on turnover from agricultural sales remains and the limit of EUR 5,000 on subsidies remains. The obligation, therefore, to add to the above amounts, is also introduced to the issue of a special element for the deliveries of own agricultural products, as well as for the provision of agricultural services by farmers of special status to other farmers of a special scheme or non-taxable farmers. All deliveries, therefore, by either farmers of a special scheme today, either by sale of coarse either by retail sale or by supplying services to farmers of a special scheme are now counted on total income. As we have said, this was also a basic objective of the government for this reason, that the farmer should understand the benefits of offsetting VAT from joining the normal VAT system. Of course, we welcome the amendment that for 2016 the imposition of an additional ENPI to the parcels has been abolished. ENVIRONMENT is a tax which cannot be imposed on productive land. Production land is a means of production. Tax on the production product, but not on the means of production, which constitutes the parcel, may be levied. That is why we welcome this amendment. In the end, therefore, since we are discussing HPAI, more than 80% of the amount of clearing notes, which will be issued in the next period for HPAI, will be reduced or at the same level as last year. It's just a matter of days to prove that. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is working intensively, by means of a system, with targeted promotion and the needs of society. He received a broken society, a broken economy and a broken public administration. You know, it's much easier to degrade than build. However, we have chosen the most clearly difficult road, the road to construction, the support of the economically weakest populaces and the way to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, too. Mrs. Vagonakis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, tobacco smuggling is an unpleasant reality with very flatly injurious action for both producers, the market and tax revenues and public health, since the consumer uses products, which are likely to pose a risk to his health. Looking at the public dialogue that has developed around this bill, what is seen is its undeniable feasibility, as well as the fact that all the social actors and partners argue that it is moving in the right direction. The government over the past period has shown its intention to clash with old perceptions in the field of tax evasion and corruption, on the basis of a comprehensive plan that progresses quietly and has already produced tangible results in relation to previous years. It is not only the tax evasion lists from which he has collected hundreds of millions of millions already, it is also other fragmentary actions that have housed the state's finances by putting brakes on unfair and non-cost decades, on diligent regulations and fragmented mechanisms. I do not need to remind him of the initiative a few months ago, that is to say, to take the printing of the cigarette safety tape from a private person, who had been given by the State to date and to give it to the Bank of Greece. It was then that we discovered that the Bank of Greece calculated that for the annual order film a hundred and fifty tons of special paper was required, and until first the order concerned two hundred and fifty tons. It is no accident at all, too, that in 2015 there was an impressive 48% increase in smuggling of cigarettes. And if that figure does not say anything, let us say that the taxes and duties corresponding to all the cigarettes seized amount to about EUR 115,000. This positive result is a product of political will, as well as the subsequent major restructuring and reorganisation of the relevant control mechanisms, with a view to greater efficiency. We are not talking about revolution, but about small and stable steps, about moves which, unfortunately, none of the previous governments have made it possible to move forward. What we are wondering about is why the New Democracy and the PASOK did not move on to the tobacco register. Why have they never created a coordinating body to combat smuggling? Why has the legislation not been modernised? All this is not costing, but I think what they require is will. In the past, however, the customs services have been stripped and border crossings have been unprotected. It is characteristic that at the border with Bulgaria, on the side of the neighbours, we will see machines χ-ray, bridgeplanes and plate recording system, and that does not exist to us. Even worse, I heard Mr Alexiadis inform us that the bridgestick that became a donation to the Ministry of Finance from the National Trade Confederation of Northern Greece remained in the warehouses for years to finally be placed by us, by our Government. However, the government has been aiming at overthrowing this course since the early days, despite the situation in the agencies, threats and economic suffocation. These didn't stop us. On the contrary, even with a delay - and this is something I stress - this bill comes to the vote by taking another step in the fight against trafficking in tobacco and manufactured tobacco. This will be done by incorporating relevant European Union directives, introducing traceability, making changes to the Customs Code, setting up a coordination centre to combat smuggling in general and setting up a single tobacco supply chain register and manufactured tobacco for the first time. In other words, we are fully upgrading the existing framework and introducing new institutions, which, together with other actions in previous months, will be able to close legally and other gaps by tightening up the cord around the action of smugglers. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying and making it clear that the bill is facing a problem that is not a whole problem, but lays down legislative bases to give a breath. Breathing for public funds, producers and sellers. With the adoption and completion of these measures, we will be able to catch up with those objectives and assessments that have been heard by many operators and we will be able to collect money. Cold calculations refer to over 0.5 billion a year. Previously, there was talk of 800,000 euros, which to date were deprived of by taxpayers and the smugglers were being smuggled. This will be done by the vote of the bill. I therefore believe that it is in everyone's interest to have the highest possible acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mrs Vagonakis. The next speaker is Mr Consolas, but he is absent. Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will refer only to the tobacco-related part, because I believe that it is very serious, because I come from a region which has mostly cultivated and produced tobacco. The only way, ladies and gentlemen, to break the barriers and tax evasion from tobacco products is very simple. The first phase is to reduce their retail price and, in the immediate future, to increase the percentage of profits and producers of tobacco, but also of the pavilions and fish trucks and retailers. It is not possible for the money that the consumer pays 87% of this money to go to taxes. What are we seeing again? We see an over-compensation on the part of the Greek state for a short time, but in the long term, this money is being reduced. And they don't just gradually fall. At some point they will stop revenue from sales of tobacco, and there are many reasons for that. Thousands of tobacco companies have been closed down. We have to make it clear here that when permits were granted to the pavilions, they were exclusively for the sale of tobacco products. In order to ensure that, over a long period of time, these pavilions have been forced, given that the Greek state has reduced the rates of their profits, to put other items for sale in order to ensure that their assets are viable, they have absolutely no responsibility. This over-compensation, as I have told you, will be a very short time. Also, since there are measures that have been voted on by today's conflict and by the previous governments, which reduce the revenues of Greek citizens, it makes sense that some will stop smoking and that would be a good thing, but unfortunately the majority of those who stop buying tobacco products are directed at people who can afford them at a much lower price and are certainly a dubious origin with regard to their health. The profit rate of retailers continues to be non-existent. And here's the part that retailers, pedals and fish trucks could contribute to the fight against smuggling. Pay attention, Mr. Ministers. Retailers, as their profits decline, show an indifference as to whether there will be smuggling of tobacco products and not report offenses themselves, since their interests are not affected. As a result of this wrong policy, as I told you, it was to close about 80% of these enterprises in the retail sector, because it was now inconsistent with continuing to operate. And you all remember very well that the kiosk in every neighborhood was not that it simply contributed to income for a family, it was something traditional for our Greece. Many speakers have already spoken about northern Greece and Bulgaria, and I will also add to Skopje, and I will explain, Mr Ministers, how smuggling is taking place in our country. But it is not just smuggling because Bulgaria is a country that is in the European Union. But what's going on here? This is where we have three phenomena. One is the illegal import of tobacco products from Skopje, due to the low price. And don't forget that there are too many Greeks from northern Greece, due to the casinos that exist, who regularly, almost daily, going there to have fun, bring illegal tobacco products with them. The other phenomenon is with lorries that are active and which bring unexploited tobacco products again. And the third case is the one I mentioned to you with Bulgaria. What's going on with Bulgaria? Unfortunately with Bulgaria it is legal. Bulgaria's tax on tobacco products because it is low, since they buy the product by paying the tax, with the film on it, is legal. Here you should pay attention and introduce a limit in terms of the market, even the Bulgarian legality in terms of tobacco products. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] I cannot, in other words, go to Bulgaria, buy a hundred packs of cigarettes, which, after paying the tax, is legitimate to bring them to Greece, but their price is so low that I could well smuggle them into it. You will have to table an amendment here so that a limit can be set on how much they may even legally come from third countries. One of the main export products in our country was tobacco, a product which, in relation to other agricultural products, yielded enough money to enable a family, by cultivating a few related acres, to have a decent living and that is directly related to smuggling. For some years now the cultivation of tobacco has been stopped, because our 'good' European Union has considered that its cultivation should be stopped and producers should be subsidised, taking no subsidies, instead of giving them this subsidy to modernise their machinery and facilities, so that this whole thing can act as an incentive to employ more young people in the agriculture sector. All governments thus destroyed the primary production sector of Greece. Keep in mind that with the cultivation of tobacco there was an internal migration during the tobacco harvesting period, which gave a long time economic breath in areas where it had nothing to do with tobacco. In fact, this time was touching the 3⁄4 of the year, that is, about nine months, which corresponds to the turnover required from the time plantation started up to the product packaging, which would result in its final processing. Subsidies were granted in the wrong way. You must be careful when you make agreements with the European Union. Subsidies should be given on a single basis. No one gives for free money. One cannot be paid for not producing! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Keep in mind that the area from which I come - the Yanksa plain - produced 80% of the Berley type tobaccos all over the world. Today, then, after many years of cowardice - it is cowardly that some producers have again begun to try to regenerate tobacco, taking the risk exclusively on their own, without there being anything certain in their attempt, without any state care or any guarantee of absorption of their products. The tobacco varieties cultivated were Burley tobaccos, Virginia and the well-known Basmadas, the small ones. The time that Greece has not produced tobacco - and here is the absurd and acidification - has been imported from third countries, such as Turkey and other Latin countries. In recent years we have introduced tobacco from the Netherlands, which does not produce tobacco, but has brought tobacco from countries that were former colonies, where production costs were smaller. Here we could link the closure of industrial fertiliser plants, which played a very large role in the cost of producing tobacco. All this contributed to the destruction of the primary production sector. To close, Golden Dawn considers that there is only one solution: with profits, which will result from the extraction and exploitation of hydrocarbons and ores, the primary production sector will be subsidised by the state budget and not by the European Union, which - as I have said before - is never giving money. This will be a key factor in the fight against all the phenomena, which we are discussing today, of tax evasion from the sale of illegal products. The more you legislate, the more you charge Greek citizens financially, you will take them into violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u171	Mr Besiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Tobacco Products Legislation, which is being introduced for discussion and vote in Parliament's plenary, is an adaptation to the national legislation of Directive 2014/40 of the European Commission. There is a presumption that there is a huge financial cost from smuggling tobacco products. This problem is not tackled by fragmentary measures. It requires a continuous effort, a continuous evaluation, an update of the legal and institutional framework and a strengthening of the control mechanisms. This issue can be a common area for cooperation, consultation and consent of all political forces. The intention of consensus was expressed in practice by the New Democracy. We will support the provisions of this European Commission Directive 2014/40. We also support the establishment and operation of the National Coordinating Centre for the Combating of Smuggling in Smuggling in Smuggling in Smuggling in Smugglers, Fuel and Alcoholous Products. The oral statements on the fight against smuggling of tobacco products are not enough. Nor is it enough, of course, to amend the Customs Code and adapt this European directive to Greek legislation. The big question is to strengthen control mechanisms and shield them, because they will be called upon to fight the smuggling. From that point of view, I do not only consider it unacceptable to table amendments to the twelfth, literally, by the government. I believe that they show the magnitude of the incompetence, incompetence and inappropriateness with which the government exercises management. Ladies and gentlemen, developments over the last few days have shown that this government has no sign of credibility. Do you think you can still make fun of citizens? Mr. Tsipras, having bolded the people's vote, promising the abolition of HISPIA, made the very opposite, increased HISPIA. And now the government is trying to sort out unbeatables. Minister, we warned you that with all that you brought and voted there were heavy burdens for the vast majority of citizens from the ENPI. You've been confusing us. You remember that. Now what are you doing? You're coming and you're confirming. You are suspending for a year the taking into account of agricultural parcels in the supplementary tax and for the first time there is a report from the General Accounting Office of the State which calculates the cost of EUR 230 million. But in the law you brought in last May, there was no burden on the General Accounting Report. For the last two months, we have been asking you to provide us with information on quantification of the EMS targets. But you didn't. The reasons are understandable. If you did, one of the greatest frauds of this government would be revealed, the increase in HISPIA. We are no longer talking about fraud, but about cynical deception of citizens. The government is totally confused because even if agricultural parcels are suspended for one year in the supplementary tax, the increase in HISPIA is high. Citizens will see it in their cleansing houses. Why? But for all the things you have brought and voted for, and they are new and unbearable charges for HISPIA, HISPIA, which you would have done away with, but you have increased him. Let me remind you of all that you voted on and lead to an increase in HIS: The tax-free tax limit was reduced to EUR 200,000, compared with EUR 300,000, which was up until last year, while at the same time you increased the tax rates in the supplementary tax. You abolished the 20% discount for gaps, non-electrical real estate. You raised the ENVY to 25% for the plots. You have imposed a supplementary tax on the property used by businesses. This account comes and will be heavy for the citizens. However, heavy is also the income tax account, since the average tax paid by the average Greek citizen in 2016 was EUR 1,514 compared with EUR 1.310 last year. In all of this, we must add the increase in the tax advance for free professionals and farmers, the conversion into a permanent tax of the exceptional solidarity levy, while increasing its rates, and the increases in HNPH. Do you continue, Minister, to insist that there is no increase in ENPIA? There will be no charges from reducing the tax rate from EUR 300,000 to EUR 200,000 in the supplementary tax? Will there not be any charges to increase the rates for land? Since the abolition of exemptions in special buildings? From taxation on the property used by companies that are taxed for the first time and non-electrical property? Are you still claiming that the ENPI didn't increase? Patience then, because in a few days' time when the clearing houses come, we will see how many of you will be able to move around, how many will be able to get out of their homes. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has a lack of plan and seriousness. It could not resort to an easy solution to the imposition of new taxes or an increase in taxes. How? With the fight against tax evasion. With the regulations adopted by the government since last October, it has been encouraging someone not to issue proof and to avoid tax. Instead of reintroducing autonomous fines for each case or even per check not to issue proof or tax information, you continue to impose a 50% fine of the value of VAT of the unissued tax item, setting a minimum fine of EUR 250. This applies only to enterprises and professionals subject to VAT arrangements. Close your eyes to tax evasion and increase taxes at the same time. It is also a pretext that you have transformed the tobacco bill into a bill with the twelve amendments that you tabled, by means of provisions confirming that the government is improvising, has a 24-hour strategy, it is in its logic of seeing and doing. They are confirmed by the extension of the limitation on the charging of tax on uncontrolled cases all we have told you in the previous period of the problems that have arisen in tax controls by the dissolution of the ILO. I consider the provision on the choices made by Heads of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue to be unacceptable, where the procedures for the recognition of relevant services in the private sector are effectively abolished. This is a scandalous provision that catalyses the concept of dignity. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, no one believes you anymore. The government is in complete contrast with reality. It dissolves the real economy with the constant and out of all reasonable overtaxation of everything. It is a minority government, with all the meaning of the word. It is the institutions and the Constitution itself. It is a government that is capable of doing everything in order to remain in power for even one day above. It is a government that is an accident and an accident for the country and the citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Never before did the country have a Prime Minister with such a huge political morality and excess political amoralism. He does not hesitate to use as a political game even the Constitution itself. Mr. Tsipras became Prime Minister with lies. But lies end here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u173	The last speaker is Mr Meikopoulou. Then the Parliamentary Representatives will speak. Mr Dannelis has already asked for the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u174	The Minister won't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u175	I don't know. When he asks for the floor. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is more than obvious that the tax burden is perhaps one of the biggest problems - along with that of unemployment - which are currently plagued by Greek society. Despite the efforts made by this government to share tax burdens as fairly as possible, it is still a serious problem, which must be dealt with in the most drastic way afterwards. In my view, this draft law, today, precisely in its direction, is aimed at it. In order to be able, at some point in the future, to compress tax rates downwards, two things must happen, on the one hand, the tax base must obviously be extended and, on the other hand, tax evasion must be struck, but also smuggling into fuel, drink and tobacco products. With the present bill, therefore, a uniform, rigorous and technologically advanced framework is introduced for customs control and the fight against smuggling in tobacco products. So there is a deep, active part, I would say, of the smuggling of tobacco, which has been smuggling the Greek market for years, and which seeks, through the control and continuous monitoring of tobacco products and cross-border cooperation with the other Member States of the European Union, to deal effectively with smuggling and to establish a system of legality and equality in the production and movement of tobacco products. There's a very specific route that comes out of this bill and has the following stations. The authorisation system for the import and export of tobacco products from and from other Member States - Member States, establishing the Single Central Register of Tobacco Supply and Industrialised Tobacco Systems in the Information System of Customs Electronic Services and the unique registration number of tobacco operators, prohibiting the sale of tobacco products cross-border or via the Internet, applying the traceability of the product, namely the placement in the tobacco product of the unique identifier and of the special security characteristic, so that the product has an identity, can be automatically detected and monitored throughout the course of its movement, a recommendation of the Coordination Centre under the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, with a view to coordinating all the competent authorities and all relevant information in order to combat the smuggling of tobacco and, finally, the establishment of the Customs Information System on Observation, Reference, Discriminating Monitoring of Cooperation between the customs offices of the Member States, as well as of the European Police and Police Offices of the European Police - European Police. In essence, the scope of tobacco trade is formulated and specified and State control is extended at all stages of the movement of the tobacco product, while at the same time the control and supervision structures of the State mechanism for combating smuggling are being upgraded. It is therefore obvious that the legislative initiatives and interventions of the government in question are directed towards the legality of the single and strong state control. The provisions of this draft law therefore restructure, upgrade and strengthen the customs control system, and for the first time create a broad scope for monitoring and monitoring the marketing of tobacco products, aiming at one thing: to eliminate smuggling in this area. In particular, the establishment of traceability provided for in this Legislative Decree enables the State body to monitor, throughout the course of the movement, tobacco products and detect smuggling products directly and at every stage of movement. So this bill, with its deep incision, is doing three very important things to the problem of tobacco smuggling. It restructures and forms new audit bodies, harmonises domestic legislation with best European practices and reforms and optimises the tax framework. It is therefore a clear and stable step towards dealing effectively with chronic problems that are plagued by the market in certain products and another small, if you like, with the exercise of the serious and responsible policy pursued by this government. At a steady pace, therefore, we are promoting our political commitments and our legislative options, restoring to the political scene something that had been lost in the past, the values of legality, transparency and the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, too. Mr Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u178	When will the Minister talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u179	He'll ask for the floor later, from what I've heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the tolerance of the state to every act of violence and lawlessness, hooliganism and the destruction of public property in the name of a curious concept of not manifesting authoritarianism, not only does it not protect democracy and social peace, but it evicts and demolishes those who are looking for a role through violence and terror. The day before yesterday 'No Border', the well-known 'Ruvikon', one year after his unfamiliar memory to the House - remember - from that incredible President, it is said that he hit the Turkish Embassy in the strictest guarded area of Greece without any difficulty or consistency. And life is just going on. Impossibility of operational or incompetent awareness of the risks to democracy due to an ideological tolerance to some alleged left-wing violence? They are equally unacceptable versions, equally dangerous and disastrous. The bill now. The draft is made up of three parts. The first part has amendments to the National Customs Code on smuggling of tobacco and incorporation of articles of the European Directive 40/2014. There is a need for an integrated and reliable treatment of smuggling of tobacco products, which causes enormous damage, both at economic level - loss of revenue for the public 637 million for 2015, according to a recent study by the KRMG or about 1.5 billion a year, according to earlier studies - and at social and individual level - to increase infractionality, unsuitable health-related traffic. I will not, of course, go into the process of recalling the pre-election statement, both the Prime Minister and important ministers of the government - and it is not just this government and this Prime Minister - to combat the smuggling of tobacco, but also fuel, oil, which would bring warm money for social policy in the state funds. After all, these sorts of election commitments are always pillistic, and they tend to be forgotten at the expense of reality, which wants another organisation and other processes. The second part of the bill comes to harmonise Greek legislation with the Council Decision of 30 November 2009 on the use of information technology for customs purposes. Obviously we agree and vote for both the first and the second part. The third part has other arrangements for the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. This is where we've got the legislature on a slap role, as a parole. You are bringing parts of a European legislation on tobacco products - we are 'blocking' the directive in two, because there is a difficulty in consulting the Ministries of Finance and Health and we add a chapter in the remaining directive, the third, ten articles which are irrelevant to the main body of the directive. Many of these are tax content, which come to correct earlier provisions after reactions from various groups. Since last night we have had a late Ministerial Amendment of eleven articles. I think there is no colleague in this area who believes that this process, this methodology, which we have been using lately, has to do with the right legislative procedure. I would also like to ask the Minister for Finance a question. Does he think - because he knows - that, in addition to all the other problems created by this kind of legalisation, small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly small businesses or small accounting offices, are being helped to understand what is going on in a schizophrenic legislative process? We must have a comprehensive planning on key issues relating to taxation control. I am thinking of his case going on - come on, dealing with the cutting of proof or not, as we are in the summer, in a group of businesses dealing with tourism, where there is a great deal of tax evasion in relation to the evidence. Excessive fines or excessive reductions in fines and the reintroduction to excessive increases in fines lead to a rationalisation of the market, a difficult market, a problematic market? For all these reasons, another integrated design and another methodology for addressing individual issues is required. Minister, you know that personally I appreciate you unlimitedly. I think that, in particular, legislation by your Ministry should be dealt with more organisedly and with greater respect for the legislative procedure. I understand the pressures and the workload you have, but so we cannot legislate and the immediate interested Greek citizens cannot follow us. I think that sometimes, if there is such a rush, it may be more honest, cleaner to come legislative acts, which the House will then discuss as it needs to discuss, rather than to have at 12 o'clock at night a mini-tax bill, which we have to vote on the next day. I leave aside some of the things I had in mind, and I will refer to one or two issues concerning your amendment yesterday. I would like to comment, of course, beforehand, that in relation to Article 40 of the bill, we read in the explanatory statement that Article 25(5) of Law No 4174/2013 is amended, where it is clear that new elements need in any case to be burdensome and not to be elements which reduce the tax debt identified during the initial audit. Furthermore, the criterion for carrying out a review is objective and the conceptual content of the new element is identical to that of the additional element as it existed at 31-12-2013. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] What is being concealed under this provision, Mr Minister, which seems to identify both a time and a subject matter? Does the taxpayer lose his right to re-check if his case presents new evidence, which he presents? Is a priori acquitted by the tax advisor who carried out a check? We must protect the body of tax and tax control officials. We know very well from the past that we have various dark pictures and various shadows. Should tax officials not protect them from any interpretation or misinterpretation of their acts or their will? I think that we should protect taxpayers and we should give them every right, which the State has to do to them, to any control which, of course, has to do. In Article 6 of the amendment you tabled, I fear that you are creating extremely dangerous conditions. The immunity you propose for disciplinary, civil or criminal responsibilities to the officials of the tax administration opens up windows of interoperable and corruption, which will create uncontrolled situations and you must protect both the officials and the taxpayers, but also the revenues of the public. If time is pushing - which they really are pushing - then we must also find the reasons for the delays and organise work more rationally, but also institutionalise tools, which will be effective. As far as the citizens' tax obligations are concerned, you insist on an endless rug - it was rigging. This amendment, the mini-tax, as I mentioned just now, excludes agricultural parcels from the supplementary tax. It is clear that this exemption is not the result of a plan designed to alleviate taxpayers. It comes after pressure and after the realization that we are creating insurmountable burdens, unscrupulous burdens on citizens who own agricultural property, who are neither fair nor legitimate to lift up. But it carries weight to another group of owners. And I fear that this is the result of a legislative manoeuvre and a lack of initial planning and a serious job that has to be ahead of us. So we arrive at the end of July, sewed up and carried weights on others, which I don't know where they're going to be allocated, after all. Because, as far as I'm aware, there will be a hole in the HICP revenue forecasts, about EUR 300 million. Yesterday, your ministry announced in the data on budget implementation a primary surplus of EUR 2.5 billion. Overtaxation, of course, with the state-run payment stop, may show surpluses, but it drains the market, drowns entrepreneurship and kills hope for job creation. The Prime Minister recently found that the left is the policy that creates jobs. And we're totally in agreement. Healthy entrepreneurship, however, requires conditions for it to be able to flourish. And you know, after the collapse, the bankruptcy of state-owned and, of course, of the state-owned capitalism we have known, one-way leads us to create conditions for healthy entrepreneurship. With over-taxation and the refusal to reduce the operating costs of the State, the costs that are, on the contrary, growing constantly, because with customer perceptions, we are increasing the state instead of alleviating it, we are depriving us of every prospect of producing national wealth and solid jobs. That would be if we had a perception of the situation in which we are, perhaps, the only thing that should be concerned with public dialogue. In other words, how we create conditions for healthy entrepreneurship, which will produce us national wealth and solid jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr Kontonis has asked for the floor, and then Mr Alexiadis will follow. Here, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, I have asked why a number of issues should be clarified, which have been raised by the honourable Member of the New Democracy, Mr Karamanlis, which has been mentioned in detail in the amendment, which we have now brought to the National Representation. First of all, I would like to say that two of the five paragraphs of the amendment were not mentioned by my colleague, which means that we are in agreement. It is the composition of the Committee on Professional Sport and its best function, and the second is the abolition of the scheme applicable to public limited liability companies. I understand that there is an agreement in these two paragraphs. In particular, the second is putting an end to this vicious regime - which has been in place since 1999 - some to constantly establish anonymous football companies or basketball companies that fall into an amateur category and debts not paid by anyone. And it's not just private debts. They're the debts in the state and the insurance funds. Therefore, for these two paragraphs, which I have heard nothing, I conclude that there is an agreement. For three, however, there was strong disagreement and arguments. The first was on the ethics committee, which we say that every domestic federation should establish. The provision, if you look carefully, refers to those federations which belong to an international federations, and these international federations have in their statutes institutionalised the ethics committee. That's what she's talking about. In fact, I would like to say that after what has happened lately with the EPO Ethics Committee, which, after intervention by the Greek Government, has been forced by FIFA to establish the Ethics Committee without time restrictions and exceptions, we should commend the Government here for its efforts rather than keeping questions and doubts. The second relates to the electronic ticket. You all remember very well that the online ticket has been introduced by government law last year in May. There have been Fans' appeals in the Committee on Privacy Policy. And the committee met in December 2015 and issued its conclusion, which was notified to us in April of this year. We, together with the Ministry of Justice, have made a serious effort, precisely so as not to legislate in the foot and to properly incorporate the independent authority's observations, which we have done. And we brought this provision. It is the provision of Law No.4326 of May 2015 enriched with the observations of the independent authority, because we respect the opinion of the independent authorities and this opinion we incorporate into the legislation. So when could we bring this provision, despite this moment, before the championship begins, so that the organizing authority of the First National Class knows how this whole process of the online ticket will take place? So we also consider here that, seriously, I believe - and I believe - that this provision is entirely justified and we ask the National Representation to vote in favour of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I was not at all able to understand the position - which had an insulting tone about how we have shaped it - regarding the rewards of athletes. The provision we bring gives extra rewards for the Deaf Olympic Games and for the chess Olympiad. This is why there is also a report from the General Accounting Office. It is not a recast of the next article, as it has heard. For we consider, in particular for our fellow deaf people, who have brought a particular distinction for the country, because the National Basketball Team of Women will be honoured tomorrow by the President of the Republic for the distinction he has brought, that they should also be included in the benefits and prices of the state, just like other athletes, and especially in this category of people. I would like, however, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to mention something which has given me particular impression. It has been mentioned that this provision is, unfortunately, the Minister of Finance in determining the financial rewards and that this decision will no longer be adopted exclusively by the Minister responsible for sport, as was the case so far, but will be adopted by a joint ministerial decision of the Minister responsible for sport and the Minister for Finance. Is this a mistake, especially in budgetary terms? It's right. And I would like to say that this provision had already been formulated in the draft law by Mr Andrianos and we incorporated it because it is correct. Where we are right, we, without a second debate, incorporate them and put them in crisis. But to tell us that this provision should not include the joint ministerial decision, which the draft Andrianos draft had even proposed at the stage of consultation? Hey, what can I say after that? I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you realise that these provisions have had the urgency and that is why we have brought them today by this procedure. They resolve issues which were outstanding, and in particular all these provisions are aimed at what we want to achieve, namely democratisation and transparency in the field of sport. I would ask you very much to vote in favour of them precisely in order to give a message to everyone, namely that this process is not just a process of the parties that govern, but is a national effort to be done in all areas and by all. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u183	Mr Alexiadis, Deputy Minister for Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with a legislative improvement. I didn't take time to delay you from the seat. It's for Article 1. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 9 of Law No 3943/2011 -referring to Article 42 of that bill - the ‘three-month interval’ is replaced by ‘for longer than one year’. It's good for taxpayers. And Article 9 of the provisions of Article 53A of Law 2960/2001 on the products concerned allows for entry into force earlier. They're positive legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u185	I started with the legislature, to agree with the observation of the old friend and partner from the years of the coalition, when we were together, by Spiros Danellis, that I am not proud - and I think none of the government - of the way we are forced to legislate. We do not think that this is a good thing for the parliamentary procedure. But we are, in order to deal with specific problems, working in this way, because we have to deal with specific problems, specific issues and often moves, for which we have criticised. It is certainly not Parliament's best way of working. But between two evils we choose what's the smallest. With regard to this bill, what I would like to emphasise and thank everyone is the high level of the debate, both in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in the plenary. We have noted and will respond to the remarks that have been made. I think it is very important for such an issue, such as smuggling tobacco and the other issues in the bill, that there should also be a minimum of social and political consensus, but that there should also be a high level of dialogue. As far as the bill is concerned, we hear too much criticism as a government 'what are you doing about smuggling, what are you doing about tax evasion'. I will answer you with information on what we are doing, but I would like to stress this. We hear too much grief, too many disagreements, too many denials, but we do not hear proposals. The government brought in a specific bill. Have you made any suggestions? Any proposals that were positive and which were incorporated. We accept what is positive. At some point, however, we must understand that the role of the political forces is not a lasting refusal and a constant disagreement, there must be a specific proposal. We have heard a criticism of 'why do we change the provisions'? This contrasts with another criticism, which we sometimes have as SYRIZA, that we do not respect parliamentary procedures. But precisely because we are not dogmatic, because when we consider that something needs to be changed, we do so, we do not regard the parliamentary procedure as a pretext. We believe that dialogue is essential, we have to discuss it and when something needs to be changed, we change it. We cannot then come and have criticism because we change the provisions. I come to specific points, as they have been raised and we have to answer them one by one. First of all, for this bill and the constant reference to the Nicoludi bill, I would like to make it clear - I told the Committee on Economic Affairs - that no draft was delivered by anyone in the Ministry of Finance for fuel smuggling. After all, we do not need to do anything in the institutional framework for fuel smuggling, because the institutional framework is too rich and effective, it only needs to be implemented. As far as the smuggling of tobacco products is concerned, there was an initial bill, which had been made public. On that bill is the basis of this bill. Then the directive came in, and we had to incorporate the directive, so there is a natural consequence. I don't understand the reference to one and the other. We took a bill, which was in a lesser range of things, and we extended it to too many issues. And if there is any difference - because it has been said here by a representative of the New Democracy - which is suspected or justified by anything else, let it be tabled. I asked for a difference to come, he hasn't come, hopefully he'll come by the end of the process. We have heard a criticism of fragmentation, namely that the government operates in fragmentation and does not bring an integrated plan. But here we don't have a conference, we don't have a conference on smuggling. I hope that we will also have such a meeting and that is where all the proposals will be put forward. What we are doing here is to have a bill which incorporates a directive in the right direction - it is not the wrong direction for the directive - and to incorporate these provisions into the overall planning, which, of course, we have and move forward, on the issue of smuggling tobacco products and in general smuggling. And we are critical of whether the whole directive should have come or not. Dear Members, we have to understand this. Three articles of the Health Ministry bill have been cut off and come to plenary - it has already been tabled - as a separate bill. And we did this, because think about what would happen if in this bill, which we started with nine articles, and we've only reached sixty three with provisions of the Ministry of Finance, we had other provisions here concerning the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u186	You do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u187	So we don’t have a problem with that. The problem is that we should focus our criticism on the real political issue and not on criticising it. We have heard arguments in committee and in plenary regarding the government. This is where I want your attention. We have heard arguments, such as that the government is the worst of all previous governments, that the government is ineffective, that tax evasion and smuggling are triumphed. We've heard too many things. At some point - and I have asked Parliament for it before - we must be criticised by those who criticize us to tell us: we are worse than what? We're ineffective than what? To put us a base year, a given and say "that was in 2013, that was in 2014, that was in 2010 and you're worse than that." To talk about it, that is, on a specific basis, because saying in general and vaguely "you are ineffective, you are the worst" I cannot understand. I would like to point out to some people that when they are constantly taking and studying - and it is very good that they are studying it, fermentation is called on the left - SYRIZA's texts on what we were saying in the election, what we have been saying all these years, it is good that they are studying them, but at some point they should think that there is no sense in perpetual comparison with what we were saying in election only. They have to compare what we do with what they did when it was government. Because, gentlemen from New Democracy, from PASOK and a portion from the river, you ruled. You are not innocent of the situation the country has arrived here. You're not innocent of what happened at the Treasury. For the party, which was in the Treasury, there are faces, addresses and people in charge. For these things we will at some point hear here, not self-criticism and automation, but, as quite rightly, yesterday the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government reverted to the debt issues, what do you say about what is happening? So with regard to what we are comparing, because we compare specific things, I will submit to the Minutes fourteen tables, and I hope that after that deposit of the fourteen tables, when you re-apply to the government or say something like that, because there is one view that we will have to hit tax evasion and smuggling when we go to another form of culture or something else we hear in here. But in this particular case. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Well, specific things. Table 1. What ministerial decisions did the SYRIZA - ANEL Government make without bringing laws? Why? Because we had very good laws passed in 2012, 2013 and 2014, but - look at one detail - no ministerial decisions were made. Law 4170/2013. We made a decision in September 2015 on the Banking Accounts and Payment Accounts System. Full access to the bank accounts from the audit services. Date of birth: (a) 1967, (b) 1971, (c) 1971, (d) 1971, (d) A decision was made in December 2015. Input Input Systems for Free Fuel Installations. Date of birth: (a) 1967, (b) 1971, (c) 1971, (d) 1971, (e) 1971, (f) 1971, (f) 1971, (f) 1971, (f) 1971, (g) 1971, (g) 1971, (g) 1971, (g) We made the decisions in December 2015 and April 2016 for Input-Output and GPS Systems on Fuel Transported Means for Specifications and Requirements for Pilot Fuel Transfer Instruments. N.4072, 4th of 2012 on Liquid Fuel Tracing. We have completed the draft joint ministerial decision and proceeds to sign. You will once reply to this Chamber, because this very good legislative framework has left it aside and you have not made ministerial decisions, not after one and two years, after three and four years, to implement? Let's move on to Table 2. ‘Smuggling control of Tobacco and Fuel’. In tobacco 59,894,357 in 2014, 147.664.108 in 2015. You don't call that a failure, probably if you know just math. Scatters of Tobacco Products. Confiscated amount plus 48.08% in 2015 compared to 2014. Corresponding Duties and Taxes, plus 52,21% in 2015 compared to 2014. Deposits numbers, plus 18,44% in 2015 compared to 2014. Comparative Accounting data from the Customs Service. Total allocation amount plus 66.35% in 2015. Logistics plus 5%. Confiscations - commitments plus 60%. Smoke and Fuel Controls, not to tire you, Lagard list. I've brought the evidence before, but when people come back and say it again, I'll redeem it, where it turns out, and what we've done, and what we've confirmed. CSTP audits. Increase in 2014 and 2015, 67%. We are not talking about Nicaragua and other small and medium-sized enterprises. For the Great Rich Tax Center. And here's the answer. From 2014 to 2015 an increase of 67%. And we're taking specific cases. Offshore companies 456 thousand per case in 2014, 746 in 2015. Controls of natural persons of great wealth, 290 thousand per case in 2014, 694 in 2015. List of what the JEPD did. List of what the DUs did, where we had an increase of 128% of the certificate. IMO control. Tourism audits, plus 78% in 2014 to 2015. Table 12 in relation to revenue. First half of 2016. In relation to the budget target, ladies and gentlemen, we are 954 million more than the budget target. A goal that, when we put it in the Chamber, we heard criticism here that it is excessive, you will not be able to reach it and what you are saying. We've caught the target of the budget and we're 954 million above the target. And not only that, we are also 180 million above the target of tax refunds to citizens, to businesses, precisely because we did not do the cheap accounting tricks of the previous period. Some people have said for the previous period: 'VAT has been burned, you are not collecting anything'. Comparative table. First semester of VAT 2014, 2015, 2016. In 2014, 6.330.000, in 2015, 6.121,000, in 2016, 7.034,000. You don't call that a collapse! A table of outstanding debts in the public sector. Comparison between 2013 and 2014, an increase of 58%. Comparison 2014 to 2015, decrease of 5.53%. Increase in outstanding debts in six months, i.e. how they are increased per month: in 2013 3668, in 2014 5583, in 2015 4720, in 2016 3358, the lowest amount since 2013. So stop your criticism that the government is ineffective. Stop criticising you that the government does not make it. Whether you like it or not, your numbers are disgusting. Of course, metaphysical concerns and various other things you can have, but they are not related to these issues. However, I should like to reply to a few points, as set out in the articles in the bill. In relation to Article 1, we are making it clear that a full licensing system is being introduced by the Ministry of Finance with a view to controlling the movement and, in addition, a review of the authorisations of the tobacco industries within a year is envisaged. That's for those who blame us for some things that don't apply. In Article 3: The due diligence measures of the tobacco industry. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where hypocrisy goes. This article introduces the obligation of tobacco producers and importers to apply due diligence measures to their customers and suppliers, i.e. measures to verify their identity in keeping relevant records and continuous supervision. Is that bad? We have heard a colleague from the New Democracy saying 'Will you put the wolf on the tobacco industries guarding the sheep'? Oh, my god. Here we are introducing a system which is laid down in the directive and which we have been told that we are entrusting this obligation to the tobacco industries. It's very simple. For the first time, we are making tobacco companies accountable for the issue of smuggling. We oblige them to inform us of all their transactions and to take responsibility for customers and suppliers. You're accusing us of all this favoring them. If you read the directive and the specific measures, you will see that they are not favoured at all. On the issues of traceability and safety, because too much has been heard here, I would like to say that here, first of all, we incorporate Articles 15 and 16 of the directive into our legislation. We are doing nothing further and we are putting the obligation of the Member States to establish traceability systems. Because we have been accused of too much, for this thing, that we are trying to go through insidiously dangerous things in the wording of the provisions, I would like to say: Read, please, just what the provision says. Read and you'll see. At the only point we differ, is the protection of personal data, which is, in fact, outside European legislation, also taking into account our national legislation - which is why you blame us? - which is based on European and ensures increased safeguards. In what they have heard - and here and here in committee - that we are going to go to a system auction, we have made it clear that there will be a reliable system, which will be done by public, open tender and will leave no margin for anything. Also, with regard to the issues of the Coordinating Business Centre, it is clear that this is a centre that coordinates. Some cannot blame us for lack of coordination and others tell us why we are bringing this provision or why we only have twenty-nine employees. But that's not the twenty-nine employees. They are the representatives of the various services, which will coordinate the Coordinating Centre, and it says very clearly that it will coordinate different services. And for those who blame us for removing the work from the customs procedure, I ask you to reread the provision. That is not the case. As far as the new product is concerned, electronically heated cigarette is not a raisin. And I am struck by this: it has been said in the Committee on Economic Affairs and we have responded to features. It's been said here again. It's not e-smoking. It's a tax classification of a new product. As far as Article 40 is concerned, I owe a great answer and a clear-cut one. I think that what has been said about Article 40, conceal and condone precisely the different logic and operation of tax services before the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. So I'll tell you what's going on in another country, not Greece. There's a tax check based on data... [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I will take some time, Mr President, because the articles are too much and you understand that we have to give answers to that. A check is therefore carried out on an undertaking and on that undertaking tax evasion, which is substantiated, because one undertaking has denounced the other. I mean, there's evidence. It's not something that he just found. Between two undertakings, it denounced each other and it checked. The results of the audit - what do we do? - Some people didn't like it. And in this country, when they did not like the results of some, we had two roads: or they brought a provision to the House and voted for specific political persons and individuals and the findings of the audit were deleted - these have been done here by this House - or they were ordering re-control. It was therefore ordered to be re-checked and the audit ordered agreed with the initial audit. And what happened then? The case went to the tax courts, and while the case was in the tax courts, a second review was ordered, in order to press precisely the audited and to be able to reach where they were. Do you know what the auditors who went with the second workshop faced with having the re-checked from the first day? They told them clearly: “We have filed lawsuits in twenty-six. Do you want to be next?’ Why? Because we are not talking about protecting someone's rights. This is about intimidation of employees. Here we are talking about people who go to do their job and instead of choosing to take what they are about to take and fix their country houses and settle their family and everything else - as in the past, and these phenomena we want to hit - were blackmailing them and pushing them with such things. So what did we do here? We have brought a provision, which I must say is not our initiative. It is a good initiative for the services of the Ministry of Finance, because they want to stop this very process. We brought a provision whereby we say that it is not possible for the company or the person controlled to discover new information after the check and to come to say after the check "I have this information, re-check it to go to a more favourable situation". Let's bring them to the initial check. But even if it is necessary to review the evidence, of course, it can go to the Dispute Settlement Directorate. I would like to inform those who have been talking about Commission 70A and 70B, that this has not been the case for some years now. Please be more careful. So the Committee on Administrative Dispute Settlement can examine this matter and either return it to the original agency which checked either the new definition of the tax itself or go to the tax courts and find its point of view. So this is the provision and one can have the alpha or beta mood for it, that is, one can think that we should do thirty re-checks in a case that taxly does not favour some. I accept that as a political argument. There was an effort, ladies and gentlemen, to target me and my involvement with unacceptable expressions from Mr Loverdos, who, when we discussed a timely question, came and said here: 'Is it your creation, Minister or your services? Here with what you're saying, it seems to be your creation. Is this a matter that mobilizes you because it concerns an operation in Kavala?' It's upright the implied and specific, and I, when someone spits, don't do what's raining. And he goes on, saying: “Because the crooks there are in this particular case. This is a fraud of several hundred million." Who are the crooks? Today you need to get in position. Is this the controlled operation? Because to me the presumption of innocence applies to all. Competent bodies exist to judge it. Or is it the crooks who did their job and who's from Kavala? Everyone has a name and today it's time to load it all up, Mr. Loverdos, and answer it. Of course you're saying other things. I'm not going to go into a logic of this kind of confrontation. You have arrived at the Committee on Economic Affairs to say to me 'you are inappropriate', 'you are neither clear nor clear'. I imagine you didn't mean organic purity, but you were referring to matters of honesty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u188	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u189	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u190	I was talking about the arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u191	Let's go, you'll talk about it later. When you say to a politician "you're not clean" and connect it to a case of tax evasion from its place of origin, that's what you mean. Don't try to avoid it now. So there are political questions here. I also told you in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and you need to reply. Who are you with? With the company, which has already problems with virtual invoices from many audits and complaints made by one company to another or with those who went to do their job? Will you respond here to what political figures from your area, former ministers, are already involved in this case, which is already in justice and which have been charged against them? You've made a serious mistake, Mr. Loverdos. And you have an immunity from the media, because if I dared to tell anyone here - while you told the Minister of Government - that you were irrelevant and are not clean, it would end the ink from the Mont Blank pens, which all day long praise you to prove how clean and relevant you are. And I come to your relativity in the issues of unconstitutionalism, because you have also raised these issues. That's a great constitutionalist. I remember that dreadful energy with the perpetuation of unfortunate women, an energy that was a monument of constitutionality and human rights! For you are talking 'for the sake of equality of arms' with what you are saying here. Weapons equality does not exist, when you relax and spread poor, unhappy and ill women, but when you speak of the interests of taxpayers. And here I shall table in the Minutes - to learn a little bit of tax law and you may have voted for this law too - L. 2238/94 with effect from 1-1995 to 31-12-2013 - not every two years, but for several years - where no issue of unconstitutionality has been raised. This law therefore specifically states in Article 68 - which I told you in the Committee on Economic Affairs - to prepare - 'A control sheet, and if it is still final, does not exclude the issue and notification of a supplementary control sheet if: Clearly, then, one with the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u192	Is it the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u193	It's exactly the same with each other. When he says "doesn't exceed", what does he mean? Let's understand! Does he mean he's reducing it? [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You've made a heavy political blow. I do not live in the personal assault, because I understand what level and what purpose you have made the personal attack. I have been attacked for the year I have stayed in the Ministry of Finance and organised, but also by other interests, which no longer frightens me. You are simply politically exposed to what you are doing and, of course, have time to apologize or justify unjustified. So as far as this provision is concerned, we have brought this provision to stop the transaction on re-control issues and so that officials can do their job well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u194	Minister, you should be brief, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u195	I shall conclude, Mr President. For we will neither allow any auditors of tax, customs or any other to put a finger on honey and do what was happening in the previous period - we have an open front to corruption and there is no case for this - nor will we leave control mechanisms unprotected from strong economic or legal interests. We will defend the control mechanisms, because they are responsible for being able to do their job. In conclusion, Mr President - and I thank you very much for your tolerance - I would like to say that there are many other issues which I cannot extend to because, as you can see, I have already consumed too much time. But what I want to do is to thank everyone for the debate on this issue. The issues of smuggling tobacco, fuel smuggling and tax evasion were top priority in the government. We already have results and what I can assure you is that there is the political will for conflict and greater results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u196	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence Mr Loverdos has the floor, and then Mr Cavadellas will follow. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, in the years that I have been here, I have never heard the Minister celebrate, because he has successfully rinseed the market with his tax policy. He is the first to be proud of the fact that he has kneeled to the Greek economic community and has started - and he along with other colleagues - the retreat of the recession and the course of the year 2016, in this year of the Greek economy, towards a recession that may also reach 2%. First time! Perhaps, however, he did so by a lot of zeal as a technician of power and not as a political leader and indeed a government that wants to say he has sensitivities. I say that he has done so from a technical zeal, because in the field of politics his ears will be bending, from the three answerable slaps - and I always mean at political level - which the majority here ate in this House from voting against an arrogant legislative initiative for a so-called electoral law, from how this attempt fell in the void of mocking the Greek people, trying to get the majority to gain authority from the ratification of the Constitution at the court of the House two days ago and, of course, after yesterday's debate on the Committee of Inquiry, where the Prime Minister did not take part. Some have stigmatized this behaviour as a fugitive and not a part of the "baroeuvre", but the mind of someone who is experienced is going to other tasks of the Prime Minister and to disprove all such thoughts that he was not here, because something heavier had to do, came and voted. Three answering losers. Last night, which is more recent for the Treasury - because Mr Tsakalots collected it first of all - I think it is a very negative moment. Maybe affected by these three defeats, the Minister went to say something he did and what did he find out? He discovered that he successfully kneeled the Greek economic community and successfully guided it towards the recession that, I repeat, he cannot touch 2% for the financial year 2016. Now I would like to say something, ladies and gentlemen, because I think it expresses us all. What I said before is my political views. But the status of the amendments, which are small draft laws and which also concern the minister present, cannot continue to be voted on, because some of them may also have the right to do so. It is parliamentaryly unscrupulous that the Minister should be here to speak for three minutes and leave. If I want to ask something about health issues that we heard this morning that mass recruitment is taking place, where am I going to say it? If I want to say something about sports - I'm not saying it's bad arrangements - but if anything I want to ask, where am I going to go? The Deputy Minister of Finance? These are small drafts of laws that come here. At least we have to follow a tactic not to vote on it. Minority cannot determine this, you can define this. Once you have to deny something that I am sure you cannot keep in mind in detail what the government's legislative initiative is. But this is not a matter of criticism. It also concerns the present Minister. He did not bring an amendment to eleven articles, as Mr Koutsoukos informed me that in his position this morning he said that we are trying to understand to see what we are going to vote on? Didn't you bring an amendment to eleven articles on special arrangements for HISBIA? You do not make the game 'I'm putting it out' firmly with amendments. 'I'm going to get out' if something is done at the level of objectives I want to achieve, but 'I'm going - I'm making' and in a political game, which no one can rule out is going on purpose, in order to create impressions for the public. For example, an impression has been made for some hours that farmers will not pay HPAI for the parcels and finally found in the amendment that they will pay HPAI for the parcels, simply on the issue of additional payment of HPAI for parcels exceeding an objective value of EUR 200,000, it has not been technically possible to pay from now. Why are you doing this? Are these good things? Here Mr Koutsoukos told you that we, as a Democratic Integration, were also in the process of incorporating the directive and attempting to fight effectively against tax evasion and smuggling in tobacco. Why did you have to bring an amendment to it yourself with so many articles? Why weren't you ready two or three days ago? Why can't you get ready in the next few days? Why did he have to come now? What if that was the case, was it necessary for all these articles? In any case, we share a practice and we have put it in the Conference of Presidents. It was not our protest, it was also the minister present who was responsible for it. This thing can stop if at some point the majority stand up and say I do not vote - to end this story. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, with the composition of the government, majority MPs come out into the media and say things. I am here on parentheses: my own attack on you for an unacceptable provision has not been covered by anyone. But you who are a majority party and call you everywhere, have a series of Members who say - and I would like to ask you an answer today - that from the Lagard list you saved in 2015 an amount of 800 million on behalf of the Greek people. A colleague who said today that he heard Mr Papagelopoulos speak for 1 billion, and Mr Dimitris Kammenos gave me a table that you tabled a month or two ago, specifying the amount at 174 million. What's the matter with all of this? Are you making fun of the world, using - without wanting - your MPs as a communal tool of lies or is what you have given, for the 174 million? What has been overthrown over the most positive in the last two months? I would ask you to put yourself in a very specific way on this issue, because these days I hear your Members say to the committee of inquiry that large parties have been receiving loans in the past and have not paid them. That's a total lie! The weakness of at least ours was in a phase where the overthrow of our political percentages caused problems, but as long as we had funding in the time of our power, we were impeccable in terms of fulfilling our obligations. Also on this lie, the construction of the theory was that we were a large party, because we received funding and we had friends in the channels. The second lie is that you might hit the world. You're the ones who careered in the channels when we were whistling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u198	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u199	I'm not talking about you personally! You became a party majority of this and you must know that and admit that. The truth is good to be accepted, because you gain in the field of logic, you do not lose if you accept it. That's the second lie. That you took 800 million or 1 billion from the Lagard list, which you are not saying, but our fellow Members are on your behalf. I would like you to make this clear, as well as two other issues. Nicolude's 2.5 billion what's happened to it? First of all, what has happened to Mr. Nikoloudis and if he helps you, if he is somewhere, if he offers his services. What happened to the 2.5 billion referred to by Mr. Koutsoukos? Please tell me about a more general political issue. The recent decision by the Council of State, which limits the tax return in ten years, five plus five, is concerned with the provisions you have brought to this draft law, extending the limitation period three years back? Are you concerned? Does he put a matter on it? Do you judge this decision right? I, ladies and gentlemen, wish to say, without any use of political speculation, and always avoid criticising judicial decisions, that this decision of the Council of State is moving positively, because it determines - not in the heart but at the same time - the issue of the need for fiscal stability and not to overthrow tax data for the economy every three minutes, depending on the government's collective needs. I would also like to know your position on this point, Mr Alexiadis. Furthermore, as far as the draft law is concerned, the Department of Scientific Studies in relation to licences to make exports, etc., referred to in Article 1(1) of the draft law, makes a point to you that you are giving an authorisation to yourself in a completely vague manner, which is inconsistent with Article 43(1). 2 of the Constitution. If the Directorate for Scientific Studies - which I think is right - is to shape your order differently, because you will have too many problems of constitutionality. That's what the Scientific Studies Directorate tells you, and not just me. We have been confronted with an issue related to a provision of the draft law, in Article 40(11) b.', which brought us to a conflict, the intensity of which you chose. I didn't go the way you did. Today you have continued it, and I am obliged to answer it. First of all, when you say what you are saying and repeating it today, I am undoubted to speak to you very strictly. You question my scientific adequacy, although you do not have the ability to do so, using an example that is not my concern and which you know and slanderfully do not know and you discredit me. On the issue of seropositives, it was made clear here too many times here in Parliament and in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency by the former President of the Personal Data Protection Authority and the former President of the Council of State that it was given by the prosecutor, because according to the 1996 Act - I was not even a Member of Parliament, Mr Alexiadis - the prosecutor has the power to order the disclosure of photographs and other facts. Mr Tsakalotos told me, I have been told by another colleague of yours, I have responded here, the clarification of the Personal Data Protection Authority in the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency, in the presence of Mr Voutsis, and you are waking up out of nowhere, and you recall something you know, while you did not know the conference - although you had to know - supposedly to question my arguments. I was also there when you said that I might have voted for a similar provision in 1994, and I was a Member of Parliament in 2000. I told you inconsistent because you had no information to answer and you promised me in plenary that you would reply to me in committee. You came with these vague, insignificant, false and slandering things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, because there is a personal lead, give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Loverdo, every parliamentary representative has twenty-one minutes. The prototype is 12. Secondary six minutes and tritology three.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u201	All right, Mr. President. But let's actually go. I did not start telling you. I started by telling you - and I address it to this House - that in paragraph 11 of Rule 40(b), ladies and gentlemen, what is being proposed by the European legislative initiative? To abolish a constitutional principle on arms equality. What is the “equity of weapons”? Any means available to one part of a possible dispute must also have it available to the other. Whatever one of us, the other one. In this sense, the possibility of a re-inspection of a tax case on the basis of new facts - and that is another matter - is that you should better define how the new element is defined, so that no one can take advantage of that - it has until Alexiadis intervened, and in a case concerning the interest of the State which has to take more and a case concerning a taxpayer who has to pay less. That was true. It now comes to say that one is abolished, that the possibility of a re-checking order by the Secretary-General, a body of a quasi-independent service, is retained only when the final conclusion and the complaint that mobilises the review procedure, can lead to the benefit of the public and to the detriment of the taxpayer. If the argument put forward can lead to the benefit of the taxpayer, this is abolished. Can't be ordered re-check. Why is that good? Why is that in line with Article 4 of the Constitution? For tax equality. Weapons equality. Why do you not care that you are intervening in a way that is not radical, in a way arbitrary, and why you are not afraid that this arrangement, which highlights you as a member of the National Representation as having constitutional problems, will fall into court and create problems in the courts as well as in the administration - taxed here - and in your services. Because you don't have anything else to worry about. There is no public service - I have a great deal of experience, I have made Minister at the most dangerous ministries, Minister - in which everyone is good or bad. Some will be bad, some good. They are the general correlations of a society, as they are reflected in various units of public services. Why should everyone be clean and all be good and all be diligent and all do good work or do the opposite? I don't have such hypocritical and suspicious obsessions. I say that what I've lived, shows that you'll find it good and evil everywhere. Why, ladies and gentlemen, should the administration have the power to see its issues, as it appreciates and suits it, and to create a closed circuit for the taxpayer? So if you're in control - I say that control is good, but based on my general approach, I'm saying it may not be good - why do you have the only chance you can go to court by paying 50% of the amount you're asked for? Why should this claim be made to the administration as well? I think the same thing in non-functional organs that are slowing down. The whole of Greece says so. You can't ignore it. You're the one with the job. Why say to the citizen: "Start this Golgotha, if I was wrong." But if the mistake can be directed against the public, I can order re-checking on the basis of new evidence. Because that's right. It's wrong. My first intervention in my timely question but also in the Committee on Finance at the beginning of my speech was 'take it back to the House'. If I hadn't done that intense placement, no one would have gotten a lot of what you're doing in law, no one would have figured out what you're doing. Why create a closed circuit where, if injustice, the citizen, the ruling taxpayer here, can only pay and wait for some years to see whether he is justified or not? Because in this independent service you do not keep the possibility of new data - here's to better what is a new element, we will vote on it - to say "if anything gets an eye on it, let me see it again". It's wrong, it's unconstitutional, it's unfair. Think about it. I asked you is yours or yours? You say that it is services and it relieves me, but it does not relieve me at all that you are defending it with this mania, because, ladies and gentlemen, this case is indeed about specific disputes and conflicts in the economy. I do not want to mention names, but it goes to politics. That is enough in the present policy, not in the past. I told the Minister in the House: "Doesn't the Pope of Rome, the former Minister, go on? I'm dusted!'
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u202	Why don't you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u203	One thing I'm saying, if she's unfair, unconstitutional, get her back. If it relates - as I will say now - and with a specific case, then you are interfering with the trial. I'm not blaming you or anything. To understand what I understand, I mentioned Kavala. I didn't touch you as you hurt me, but if you keep going, I'll do it. Minister, I say this is a hypothetical case where the Greek Parliament discusses the theoretical things? It's like that. It's a general and abstract arrangement. We need to see her as a general and abstract arrangement, not her specialty. Now let's go see her in her specialty. Ladies and gentlemen, in a case that was politically concerned with Greece a few months ago, one institution left, that is, the institution of one institution was replaced by another. The young man canceled a re-check to which the Minister referred. The parties concerned appealed to justice and their trial took place in February 2017. With that intervention, the trial ceases to exist. It makes no sense, because the instrument of the review ceases to exist. You are intervening in a trial and accepting and being with you if we are dealing with cases - I am generally here - where the trial is caused by the shame or evil of a taxpayer who sues his auditor, I am with Mr Alexiadis. But if the trial becomes self-proclaimed, because in northern Greece a bucket is unfolded, I have to respect it. Because - I say this third time - I am not a populist or abusing people, so I will not submit the document to which I shall refer but I shall read it. By its own hand, prosecution against two organs of the Greek state who did tax control for breach of duty, in the first order of the indictment of the following phrase...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Loverdo, you've already exhausted the time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u205	I'm done. ‘The above are claimed to have jointly infringed the duties of their service on 31 January 2012 in Thessaloniki, with a view to contributing to another illegal advantage and harming another’. I close with the following point. If it was a company with you. And I'd think about it if it was a company, how much do I connect to them, or I know them, to have an idea. There's two of them. My position is 'Let it evolve'. It can turn out that you and your employees are right. It can turn out you're wrong. You are in favour of one by this arrangement. Because things are clear, I ask you to withdraw it, see it again and bring it back to maturity. Our political injustice must not lead you to a political whim, keeping an unjust provision, which also produces results in an existing legality. I ask you to think about it and keep the debate there. I ask you to think seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u206	Before giving the floor to Mr Cavadela, as we said, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, let me make two announcements. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Definition of the Council of Europe Convention on Cyber Crime and its Additional Protocol, on the criminalisation of acts of racist and xenophobic nature, perpetrated through Computer Systems - Transfer to Greek law of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on attacks on information systems and replacing Council Framework 2005/222/JHA, arrangements for penal and anti-crime policy and other provisions’. In addition, the Ministers for Education, Research and Religion, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Culture and Sport, Finance and the Deputy Ministers of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, as well as the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs have now tabled 27-7-2016 draft law: "Agreements on Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions". The draft law shall be referred to the relevant Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u207	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u208	What do you want, Mr. Alexiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u209	I would like to clarify something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u210	A clarification of what Mr Loverdos said or of the amendment which has just been informed by the Bureau that it has been tabled?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u211	And for the amendment, but also for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u212	First of all, let us begin with the amendment that has been distributed. I give you the floor for one or two minutes, Minister. Don't take more time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u213	Don't give me the floor at all if you tell me for a minute. I mean, I'm sorry. For all that has been said, questions have been raised, Mr President. Aren't we going to tell you about the questions that have been asked?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u214	Okay. You say the amendment, and I will give you three minutes. They're enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u215	You know I'm always brief. I never eat my time. There is an amendment signed by Mr Kammenos, Mr Kotzias, Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis, who cannot be here to support it. I will support the amendment. It refers to security issues, in the process abroad as Ministers, and to the costs of resting their security escorts. The amendment refers to this Article and has a general number of 592 and a specific 113.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u216	Minister, does it concern the escorts of the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Minister of National Defence?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u217	It's about escorts. The purpose of a proposed provision is to facilitate the conduct of governmental work, in cases where the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Minister of National Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Minister of Finance lead abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u218	Yeah, that's what I said. We don't disagree. I added the president and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u219	Now, with regard to what has been said, I would like you to follow me carefully. I am not going to talk to anyone personally. Politics is the controversy. We must not waste time on personal things and things like that. Political responses. With regard to what is being said about the various lists, etc., and what we have done with the lists - I have tabled a specific list today - we are updating and the House will be kept up to date with regard to the course of the lists. There's no way we can hide anything. In the paintings we testified, it's for the Lagard list and anything else. Don't confuse different things. It's another Lagard list and what we're doing in general with the lists, because in general, we have huge sums. I told you what amounts the Great Rich Tax Center - a service in which a lot of work is being done - on these lists of huge sums. Generally, we have different amounts on lists. Don't confuse the Lagard list with the Borgians list and all the lists. With regard to the issue of limitations on these matters, first of all, the decision of the S.H.E. on the matter of limitations. He's respected. When he comes to the Ministry of Finance with the normal procedure, we will study it and adapt our work with full respect for justice, as we always do. However, I should like to inform you about the Lagard list - which is about the year 2000 and not the year 2010 or 2012 - that hundreds of cases have already been established that the persons controlled do not have an argument for limitation, because not only do they accept the results of the audit but they also pay the amounts involved and the procedure goes on. Of course, once again, it remains unanswered on the subject of the Lagard list, how those who are fighting for the limitation, since they knew when it was being deleted - from what I remember the Lagard list came to Greece in 2010 and 2012 went to the ILO - they did not do anything all these years, don't do anything and they didn't write down and we lost the money. As far as Article 40 is concerned, I should like to make a few things clear, so that no one else can be confused. I am not speaking here as a worker's representative. It's an honor for me to be, but now I'm a Minister and on many occasions I have to go into conflict with the workers who fight for their own. However, it is not possible here to affect workers in audit services in general and vague categories, without the documents being submitted. Please submit the documents, because I'm afraid you're related to cases by other checks, where some might not have done their job well, attacking employees in this case who did their job well. They're hunted by certain companies, just because they did their job well. I would therefore ask that the documents be lodged so that we can all be informed and answered. To clarify some other issues, I will tell you this: If an auditor does a check and does not consider any evidence that the company will give him during the check, he has committed a disciplinary offence. He'll be re-checked, and he'll have sanctions, just because he didn't do his job well. So don't confuse any different things. That's the first. Secondly, there is no committee 70A’ and 70B’. With laws passed for many years, there is the Dispute Settlement Directorate. I have explained what this address is doing and how a taxpayer can appeal if he has been wronged during the initial check. I'm talking to you with specific things. As regards the fact that the cases are in court and that we pre-empt etc., for God's sake, the court has the option of ordering re-control. Of course, he has that possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u220	Another court is this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u221	Please, Mr. Loverdo. We do not prejudge in any way the court to which you have referred, because you know that by decision of the Secretary-General of Public Revenue, the decision taken by a previous Secretary-General of Public Revenue has been revoked. So why are we connecting different things here and trying to make an impression? This issue, therefore, does not allow for corruption and transactions in the Ministry of Finance. It closes this door, secures the rights of the taxpayer, but also of the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u224	Please, Mr. Loverdo. He made some clarifications from the Minister. Let's close it here. Parliamentary representatives are waiting for them to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u225	I would like the floor, Mr President, for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u226	It's not my intention to deprive you of your word. But now see, we're wasting time in endless disputes. What's the point? We are getting away from both the bill and the amendments we might wish to discuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u227	I will not abuse time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u228	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u229	Minister, the pending trial is not about the substance of the tax case. It is about what I told you and you repeat it, namely the withdrawal of the re-control order. It's a cancellation case and it's pending. If you remove the possibility, you will intervene in the trial. Let's get together at last. You respond to other things than I tell you. Take it into consideration, do it a little back and bring it back in a week so that you've seen it. You don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u230	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, as you can see, these things cannot be said in the Chamber. I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u232	I have to give you the floor, Minister. Here, you have the floor, but just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u233	There are public documents, there are reports, there are a thousand two things - they have been filed and I think the whole House knows them - which say that after the first check took place, they were re-checked and a third check was requested. The order for the third re-check was a clear interference in justice, because the case was in justice. One cannot now come and say that what we are bringing here today - the Ministry of Finance has already revoked the re-monitoring order - intervenes in justice. Mercy! I've financially studied, but one of the few legal things I know. In any case, unconstitutionality will be judged at other levels. Everyone can think of it. It's the political question. Who are we on this particular case? Are we with the auditors who did their job well or badly and who will be judged if they did it well or bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u234	It's two and you're in favour of one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Loverdo, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u236	I see that for some, Mr. Loverdos, you are aware of everything and your good. I expect you to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u237	I ask you to be objective.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u238	The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Kavalellas, has the floor. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u239	Alas, Mr President. This is an opportunity for the Minister to be here. Before I go to the main theme, I would like to tell him that we could have had the opportunity to increase jobs. At the moment in Bulgaria there are sixty thousand businesses. These Greek businesses that have left here because they are craftsmen, employ five to six people and receive nothing from them. If and since under special arrangements we bring them back with low taxation, provided that they employ five people and one owner of six, we will have three hundred and sixty thousand people, who will pay and spend money within the Greek territory. Now we're going to the main thing. The Union of Centres believes in the European Union and in its integration. Therefore, bills that promote the idea of integration and harmonisation of our country with the rules of the European Union find us colluding. I would like to point out here that the government seems to me to have good intentions, like all the governments, but it is behaving impatiently, and when it finally legislates, it seems to be doing so a little bit roughly, since it concludes it with too many amendments. As far as this bill is concerned, the Government seems to have believed too much in it and perhaps it has expectations, which we might say, with our experience, that the Greek data are considered excessive in terms of the revenue it expects to collect from the fight against tax evasion. On the main issue, therefore, preventing the smuggling of tobacco products is an issue which concerns everyone. The government's reaction is perfectly legitimate. We're with you. We shall therefore vote in favour at first. But there are certain arrangements, which seem to be at least vague and some opposing, and the left one you are projecting. Fortunately you understood this self-evident and have even brought in the last amendment on MEDIs and disabled persons more than 80%. We have identified the government's disarmament in many cases, such as the control that will take effect from 2019. Why should it apply from 2019? What about the GPS? It is very easy to place a GPS. I've heard it for many years, at least seven or eight years. Mr. Nikoloudis has been talking to us for seven months about fighting corruption. Suddenly we lost him, lost the Ministry, we don't know what happened to these issues. Now, with regard to the leakage tax revenues, Greece is in the first place in Europe in terms of tobacco products, and it is estimated that cigarette smuggling holds around 20% of the domestic market, compared with 10% of Europe. This is translated into EUR 600,000 per year. That is for four reasons. It's important that we locate, because this thing is happening. First of all, Greece is a marine and road node. Secondly, the impoverishment of the people obliges them to pursue economic solutions. Thirdly, it is not known about the risk of these tobacco products, because the specifications are not being complied with and we are not aware of any further elements. Fourthly, the X-canners, which cost between one and two million each, are not present at the border. But if it is, with a million or two million, and perhaps more to save than six hundred, then it is worth it running with more interest. Let's go down. In Article 6, a joint interdepartmental collaborative body shall be established in the General Secretariat of Revenue, called the coordinating operational centre. The aim is better supervision, coordination of services. So, however, we are creating another demonic system, demonic processes that increase bureaucracy. It is known how late the Greek State is operating, especially when it is called on to interact. Paragraph 4g of this article provides for the setting-up of committees by a decision of the Prime Minister. In the following paragraph, the coordinating operational centre is allowed to gain access to all information systems of the services involved. There is therefore a great risk of breaching individual rights and personal data. We call for transparent and simpler procedures with accountability to a committee rather than a human being, to the Prime Minister. Because it makes sense at some point to have doubts about the judgments and responses of one person. We read some articles on amendments to the VAT Code. This is where incomprehensible is. There are measures that have retroactive effect. How, then, is it possible to build relationships of trust between the businessman and the state? When the businessman can't schedule his tariffs, he'll probably find himself damaged. Because with retroactive revenues you can't be sure of collectivity at all. Because it is not possible to raise huge amounts of money. It's money your potential debtors haven't collected because of their retroactive nature. So it's impossible to collect them from you. But it is not just these inconsistent and fragile ones. Why - we have already raised it in the Chamber, but I must say it myself - do not allow the re-checker when he is in favour of the taxpayer, and on the contrary when he is in favour of the public he is permitted? There are some fines where there are no VAT. So doctors, nurses and other services, they can tax them. Why don't we put the buyer's co-responsibility on the table? When someone buys a service, they have to ask for proof. Have co-responsibility with the party involved in the process. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Katerina Papanatziou, stressed to the committee that the aim of the bill is to clash with the tobacco smuggling system, stressing that it is also the backbone of smuggling in general. The fight against smuggling cannot be dealt with by dashing legislative intervention. We had the opportunity to be informed by institutions in the past few days in the committee. These concerns are not just ours. It doesn't just come out of the difference in the political character that we have. They come out of bodies involved in this mechanism. The President of the Association of Greek Tobacco Industrys Mr Spyros Flegas pointed out that, with this bill, yes, we are in line with European legislation, but he noted that his wording is general and no drastic improvement of the market is foreseen. At the same time, it raised objections to the provision which obliges tobacco producers to send an electronic statement with their transactions and to provide information on suspected transactions. Are we gonna make them the civilian informants? So he said that we should not have hopes of combating smuggling. These are not my words, they are people who are involved in the scratches and procedures of tobacco products. The vast majority, which reaches 90% of the tobacco smuggling, concerns products that have not been legally imported into the country. It is therefore not domestic product. The customs authorities are looking for scanners, we have said so before. There we will benefit, that's what we need to look at and immediately. Every day money is lost. The President, again, of the Customs officials, Mr Tribonias, said that in his own name the bill cannot deal with economic crime unless there is a strong political will to put forward an integrated action plan. He made some arguments that the Ministry of Finance should immediately reconsider the question of overtaxation of tobacco products in order to put a more reasonable tax on these products, taking into account prices in neighbouring countries. So maybe overtaxation will bring smuggling to the market. The President of the Trade Unions of Smoke and Psystic Species of Attica, spoke of interests that want to extinct the perpetrators who sell tobacco products, but also of interests that hide behind who will take charge of tracing. Also, the President of the Panhellenic Federation of Wage Adventures and Disabled Cylics, Mr. Mallis, made a direct reference to the quality of the auditing mechanisms, mentioning features that we need trained staff. This is a finding by an experienced and practical man of the market. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I do not want my second language, so I would like two or three minutes. This finding is derived from an experienced market man. It means that to date it has not established the ability of the control services. The government should already have served the appropriate stadiums with people specially trained with practical knowledge, not only in theoretical terms. The concern of the people who know the market at first hand concerns us and obliges us to squeeze you in danger. From these testimonies we believe you are on the wrong track. These people are people of the market, they are not politically motivated. To get away from the culture of enforcing legislative regulatory interventions in the direction of repression and putting the burden on prevention. Your bill ceases to be subject to the special tax arrangements for farmers who deliver their products from popular markets or from their own shop or are exporting. This will cause, with mathematical accuracy, the shrinkage of primary production. Already in these difficult times and with the new economic measures taken, there is a great deal of survival for farmers. The producer of primary products must be supported more than any other period of time, not taking potatoes from Egypt and tomatoes from Turkey. With regard to traffic charges and in particular to second-hand imported goods, it appears that an election will begin and from 2017 will be calculated the year first registered in a European Union country. It is a sin to introduce a car five to six years old and to calculate the car that it is a new car with the known consequences. This issue of evidence is too unfair, I could say, because it concerns four wheels, it is not important. Is the four wheels a presumption? A safe car can at a given moment save his driver. Is that not measured as a benefit to our society? Everyone who does not have the economic power to take a good car, because the evidence will come, taxes will come, suffering will come, take a cheap car, where he puts his family in, and they are killed or disabled. It is stated that taxpayers' figures, which owe more than EUR 200,000, and insurance contributions, will be made public. I don't know if you have that right. I think it's a matter of court judgment. You've raised the time limit from all three months, I think, in the year. We are not defending tax evasion, but also anthropophagia, bringing them all to the stand to look at their elements, that is not so civilised energy. I close by saying that your bill is increasingly burdening the most productive sectors of the Greek economy, with taxes that are now unbearable. It is not only that, but it requires as many citizens as possible, even more dashing procedures to deal with the necessary transactions with the public. We call on you to deal with the state more technocratic and less ideological. This will benefit, first of all, the economy. We are voting in principle. We support Mr Polakis' amendment and the amendment on the disabled. We shall be voting on the individual articles. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. Before giving the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Alexiadis has asked for the floor. Minister, will you be placed on the parliamentary amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u241	The ministers have been accepted and I will be present on the Members' amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u242	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u243	We have two amendments. The first is Mr Kammenos's question of tobacco retailers. The issues he raises are in a positive direction. I have no objections to these matters, but they are matters that are of another minister and I cannot accept the amendment. There must be consultation with Mr Stathakis and other co-legislative ministers. So this amendment cannot be accepted today, we will see it and come back to a new bill. After all, we will have other bills in a short time. The other amendment is signed by Mr Balauras and Mrs Vagonakis from SYRIZA. This amendment concerns the extension of a deadline to ensure the smooth management of waste, a merger procedure throughout the region, the FODs, and there is an extension of up to 30-11-2016. This amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u244	It's the general number 591 and special 112.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u245	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u246	How will it be accepted by you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u247	It's another ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u248	It's the Department of the Environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u249	Why don't you accept Mr. Kammenos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u250	The amendment we are proposing has been passed from here again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u251	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Denkias, has the floor. Mr Karathanasopoulos will then be followed by the Communist Party and we will close the circle of parliamentary representatives with Mr Manta. Invitation by the Bureau to all the rapporteurs and the special speakers to tell the Bureau who want to give a second answer later. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, I will be brief. We are not talking about any terrible legislative initiative here. We are discussing in part a protocol from the World Health Organisation in conjunction with a part of Directive 2014/40. The Minister was asked before, because the government did not bring the entire directive 40 of 2014, and he replied that it was about another ministry and that the regulation was going to be too long. Of course, Minister, this is inaccurate because the Ministry of Health has brought an amendment. It has not brought the directive into line, but it has brought in an amendment. It is not your fault, but the way this government legislates is chaotic. That is the truth and you have noticed it and now that you have become the victim of an accident with an amendment that does not concern you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is right to say that the issue of protecting against smuggling tobacco is more practical than legislative. There is a sufficient arsenal, and I think we will all agree that if something needs to be done, and that we should vote and support it. But there are practical things. I had asked two questions to the Ministry of Finance about the scanners in 2016. They replied to me then that in the evaluation phase, the automotive supply is being performed and that the tender for stable schedules will be scheduled. I have the answer here - I do not know if anything was done by February to date - and I had also received an answer to the question of customs procedures that there were five working groups to improve them. Again and in this I don't know if there's anything new. The reality is, however, what, to be honest and serious here. If you listened to the Minister's position, you would say 'a great thing, this government works with tetonic accuracy. It brings results, raises revenue, the country goes well, go up, thank God!” That's not the truth, now we know. Whether in the big picture or in the small picture, the image is bad for the country and it is, of course, too bad for this government, whatever the number you get, whatever the number. Do you want to get the numbers on the big picture? Unemployment. A rise from 24.4% in the last quarter to 24.9% in the time we are debating now, and also, we have had a slight increase in unemployment in June, which is tragic, because we always have a slight decline in unemployment at the beginning of the tourist season. You want to go to the recession? It's 1.4% in 2016. There's nothing to get caught and say we're going for the better. In this case, it may be a little more to you, because you have told us that I have sincerely lost the account from one point to another, I am confused by the many numbers - revenues from 2015 from criminal actions against the Greek public of EUR 4,003.914.93, while in 2014 it was EUR 26,809.826. I imagine that the effectiveness of the prosecution services is being measured. This government cannot be criticized. Nothing's going wrong. FAMILY of the farmers. You do well to suspend the power of the device, but that's not a setup. It's suspension of a device. Tell us clearly what you are going to do with the farmers' ENPY, and here we are talking about the supplementary ENPY, not Mr. ENPYA. What is the government's attitude to this? As far as the question raised earlier by Mr Lovers is concerned, I will give you some right from the point of view: this provision was in the original law, under Law No 2238/94. It's like you call it. But from there on, there is one issue, equality of weapons. I don't know about the case you're talking about, either you or Mr. Loverdos. I was somewhat impressed by the acidity of confrontation, which fortunately did not continue after. But here is the equality of weapons by tradition and our own governments. In 1994, the law was not our own governments, although we were making changes. So if we disagreed, we could have changed it. But should the equality of arms not apply in the case of the Greek taxpayer? Where and where do we go to a process in which we deprive him of the equality of arms? The logic of not suing the executives who do control is a logic that can withstand? Who's going to refer a steward, who's doing his job right? Who's going to do that? In any case, if they are wrongly sued, they have the weapon of false repression, and they also have the weapon of compensation for moral harm. If you want there to be cover for the financial needs from the Ministry, that's what happens. A lot of times it takes. We have done something similar to the Greek police if the organs of the state who go to do their job are falsely listed. But does not there be equal treatment of arms? You said before to go to committee and go to court. But in both cases you have said - you have rightly reminded the articles which have been repealed - that is the payment of 50%. Is it possible to pay 50% of the debt before it is judged whether you are right or wrong? But then, in reality, the result comes and even under conditions of maximum economic crisis. I think you could really see this matter again. Before I turn to the great picture, I would like to say another thing about Amendment No 585/109, with which you are once again following this logic of creating a protection for officials who exercise tax administration and tax control. In fact, you introduce criminal, disciplinary and urban unavoidable for the tax administration's organs, which are responsible for selecting cases to be checked. Why? By the way, did the troika ask you for this? Because that's paradoxical. Where and how far do we introduce to the law provisions whereby some of the public officials are actually excluded from any control and are we changing the burden of proof? Somebody else has to prove the gross negligence or the delusion to get ahead. How are these things done in our fairness? In fact, you put it in an amendment, and that makes me very impressed. In addition to this, the net outsourcing of the choices made by the Heads of the Organic Units of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which will take place by the end of 2016, is seen by the introduction of a derogation from the procedure in B.C.69 of 2016 as regards the recognition of the relevant service in the private sector. Why? We have the rushphetti here as well as every piece of government's legislation. If you're looking for a little, there's always a rushphetti. We always talk to a special team and do her a favor. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, I say this clearly. He won't save you at the election time. No matter what traffic you do, no matter what you do, it won't save you. It simply exposes you and it will expose you, because many like me in the years that come, will come here and repeat for you, who may not be here and I may not be, the rhysphetological provisions that you have been through and which you have been exposed to. Because we have recently become listeners of moral preaching, to make a small list together. Law 4332/2015, dismissal of thousands of detainees and of felonies. Order yours. Eliminate crimes relating to free competition. Articles 105, 106 of L.4389/2016. Huge rushphetti, the biggest in post-political Greece, and we'll talk about it. No one thinks of me talking to me about this when I am a parliamentary representative. These two articles constitute the discharge of all contractors for all the public works they had made, in any way they had made the competitions from 1974 until today. You have brought it and voted for it, and you are talking about war against interlocutory. Self-proportional tax fines for non-issuance or inaccurate extradition of proof N.4337/15. First you legislated and now you get it back. You have put in place dozens of provisions for works with an exception of the procurement procedure, No.4325/2015, No.4364/2016, No.4366/2016, No.4375/2016. I'll list them for you and distribute them to you. You have established a special account with the Bank of Greece, except for public account, on the issues of refugees n.4379/16. It's out of public account. It's out of order. You have introduced excise exemptions by way of a parliamentary amendment. Where did you put it if possible? In ratification of an international convention with New Zealand, article 6 of L.4379/2016. Appointment of sins in university charges, No.4386/2016. By way of derogation from the legalisation of the cost of programme contracts of the Ministry of Labour, L.4381/2016. I have another directory here, but it'll be over all the time, reading rousphetological provisions that you've been through. There's no end to it. There's only a beginning. The beginning is the beginning of your government service and there is no end. I imagine that the end will be the end of your government service and all that, in a very bad picture of both public finances and the general situation. Minister, I see today's 'CathemERIN', Wednesday 27 July. It states: "Nine million more debts, outstanding debts to the funds". You'll have seen it. It's in the financial columns. Is there anything that the government can really claim and come to the National Representation and say that it has done so successfully? I am tabling the above mentioned documents, which I have invoked. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have our cooperation where we can help. We regret that you are usually asking for it either late or at all, by legislating in accordance with the process of continuous amendments to the size of legislation in unrelated legislation without complying with the rules, without complying with the procedures. I have told you on several occasions and I will not get tired of telling you that you are in a state of government. It doesn't matter how long it takes. Those who have the experience - and we have had it in the past - have a distinctive point in which a government ceases to have any contact with society and that is where it is heading towards its departure. It's just a matter of time when, but it's headed for her departure. That's where you are. At this stage you have a chance to protect to the extent that you can be obscene. You don't even do that with this piece of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u253	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mr President. Speaking of the Minister, Mr Alexiadis, he was very happy about the progress of tax revenue. In the first half of 2016, as a technocratic Minister, it celebrated because revenues increased above the objectives of the state budget, i.e. instead of EUR 21.5 billion in the first half, 22.5 billion has been collected, i.e. EUR 1 billion above. The question is who paid these, Minister? Is it not a result of your tax policy, of a hard class tax policy, which they have paid and of which the popular strata have been charged? You were celebrating the increased VAT revenues. But the increases in VAT rates also bear your stamp and what the previous governments had legislated on tax-paying measures against the popular layers, you have not only kept them, but you are expanding them. This is the result of the objectives of the tax revenues, for which you celebrate. The Greek people and the working class have been beaten to pay these tax revenues. And much more, which for the next period will also have to pay the income tax, will also have to pay HISPIA you are preparing and, of course, the other measures, which they had not paid by 31 June 2016. Because the increase in VAT from 23% to 24% took place on 1 July. Now the next one's coming. At the same time, due to the inability of the taxpayers and the people's population to pay, the due debts of EUR 3.3 billion increased. So how much more than the targets did you have? You are now coming and you say with various amendments that the parcels will not be included in the additional tax for 2016. For 2017, we see, depending on the revenue pattern. Not that they won't pay HISBIA. They will pay ENVY, but will not be included in the supplementary tax. Like you're doing them a favor. Take them 100 euros and return them 0.50 euros and they must also be happy? Did you take back the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4, which abolished the reduction to the ESA, as regards the disabled and the multiples, since they have interest income and you say that it is something important that you have done? Keep the raisin that the people will pay and increase. More revenues are expected from the raisin and keep the field open to impose from 1-1-2017 and on the parcels the supplementary tax. Secondly, Mr Minister. You celebrate the fight against tax evasion. What tax evasion have you faced? It is too small the steps that have been taken. Here's the evidence you've given. It's certain taxes, not collected. It is "fly in straw" in front of billions of euros, which you remove from taxpayers' pockets. Why, firstly, do you continue with the legislative arsenal laid down by the European Union and by the Greek governments - and you - are maintaining legal tax evasion in large capital? And secondly, to form such a framework that the freedom to move capital is without any restriction. So they can place their funds wherever they want, in tax havens, in offshore companies. At the same time, what exists and is a very big question, is the practice of the government which is questioning the fines imposed or imposed. There is last year's legislative act, for which you did not give an explanation last year. In this name and in the name of entering the hundred doses of those who had been late over 1,000 euros, you had ‘driven’ fines that had been imposed. They were completely relieved of the fines. Who were they talking about? Of course, it wasn't a poor guy! Thirdly, you have reduced - in order to be able, he says, to collect fines - the fines imposed, so that there are no more fines on the substance. You are now coming to amend - and you are supposed to increase to EUR 250 or EUR 500 automatically the fine for every check, when in some cases the loss of revenue is too great. From this point of view, your own policy is questioning the fines. We say very clearly that you can't hunt to get out of the scratch fly, from the little tax evasion, which can also be the tax evasion of survival. That does not mean that it must not be dealt with. Of course we have to deal with it. Of course you have to target her. But at the same time you can't do anything and take no action on big tax evasion and tax evasion. You may not take any action to eliminate the huge tax exemptions that have parts of the capital. That is why there is the question through this whole process that you are shaping, such as the independence of the General Secretariat for Revenue, which will no longer be controlled by the Government, the non-criminal responsibility for which controls are made first and who are not, but at the same time also by the formation of a negative environment for the taxpayer. What we are asking for is that he may have the right to ask for re-checking of a case of concern to him. Your declaration, Minister, is that in this way, you want to deal with the pressures that the tax administration accepts from business and political interests. We understand your desire to avoid the pressure from the tax administration, which has political and business interests. However, this does not mean that any right to the taxpayer should be circumvented. He should be able to appeal, not to the courts, but to the very principle which imposed the fine on him to review his case. You cannot remove this right, in the name of political and business pressures. In our view, then, you should see this point again. You must bring the provision of Article 40 again for this particular case, because it gives rise to great problems and very great questions. With regard to fuel smuggling, Minister, the question is that we need to see the heart of the problem. Why is there smuggling? Because some are gaining from this process. Some people have a profit. And why do they make a profit? Because there is a great difference between the price - let us say it - and the taxation, which you impose. How much is the cigarette tax? Isn't that 60 percent at the final price of cigarettes? Isn't it a 75% fuel? So you understand one’s motive to smuggle when one has to avoid such a big tax. So the benefit is great. Therefore, its incentive is to do with the very high tax burden on these goods, which are first-need goods, which pay for the popular layers. That is the issue. And I now come to the second matter. Is smuggling not related to the tolerance experienced today by the wide folk layers which cannot survive and which, in order to meet certain needs, resort to such products, that is to say, to smuggling products? Is it not the result of this particular policy, this particular system, which you serve? And what do you want to do? You say that you want to smuggle cigarettes - of course, very good as intent - and that you will use all the techniques and new technology with traceability, with the special records that you will make, the special licences that you will place. Who do you actually have to apply this new system? The tobacco industries themselves, which, in essence, the tobacco industries themselves do not have a problem, are likely to make a number of tobacco industries and the smuggling of tobacco trade, because they are, in fact, making a turnover tax-free. And from this point of view, what do you say? That these will be kept with customers in the registers, the independent control will come, which will oversee the transactions made by the tobacco industries, the independent third party and the course of tracing. This independent place, what will it be? What will be the relationship between the independent third party and the tobacco industries? The indirect relationship, we're not talking about the direct because they know how to keep their clothes. This whole system will be controlled by an independent auditor. Who's gonna pay, define and control the independent auditor? The tobacco industries themselves. You understand what will be the result of this whole process, Minister. It will be very small to deal with, because illegality always goes one step ahead of the audit authorities. And the big issues concerning the smuggling of fuels, whatever measures and any legislative framework remain inactive. And shipping oil is, in essence, a fuel smuggling machine. For the amendments to which I have not been able to refer, the rapporteur, Mr President, will be mentioned. I'm just finishing up with one issue. Take back Amendment 592, Minister. It was filed on 15.10. It has no urgency and it is unacceptable. She's the one you report for the escorts. It's not urgent. What's the point of doing it on 15.10 hours before we vote? No point. What's the emergency, which came in late and has nothing to do with the bill? Because so, if we legitimise this situation, which may not be of particular political and economic importance, you will bring rain amendments from now on, relative and irrelevant. Take her back. He has no urgency. If there was something urgent, we'd understand. And it has a bill on Monday and Tuesday, it's all bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u255	And tomorrow!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u256	And tomorrow he has a bill here in plenary. So the world will not be lost if you retreat in this direction, withdraw this amendment. Unless there's another reason why you're in a hurry today to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u257	Are they going on a trip today?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u258	I don't know, I say. Let the Minister explain to us why they are now in a hurry to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, will be given the floor and the seconds will be followed by the rapporteurs and special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is a coincidence from many aspects of Parliament that this is a bill in a positive direction, since there are indeed points - and that is what no one can dispute - which, at least in the context of the introduction of the licensing system at every stage of the logistics chain of tobacco products and of the creation, of course, of the logistics register in Article 2, provides for the application of diligence measures by the tobacco industries and, of course, the prohibition of cross-border sales by using new technologies, for the provision of traceability systems and for the establishment of the coordinating interministerial business centre, to deal with this big problem in the standards of other countries and with the experience that exists internationally. I therefore think there is an agreement in many respects that this framework, which has not existed until now and which adds several new things, is enough to bring us to this great issue of having results. This is exactly the big issue. In other words, what we need from now on is implementation, application, application. What we need are practical and very fast measures so that we can achieve results, which often do not come immediately next year either. There cannot be any withdrawal at any time immediately after a legislative initiative and this has been demonstrated by the international experience. But very systematic steps must be taken and I think the government has shown that it is determined to do so in the direction of the smuggling. This proves, for example, that in a law dealing with fuel smuggling, the government itself has put the signatures in the presidential decrees, in order to make many important systems, which can produce results and produce results. I also think there can be no second opinion here. For his part, the Minister presented results on specific questions at issue. I didn't hear there was anywhere but. There's always a positive sign. Some have translated it into'recruitment for taxation'. I think it is not a serious argument for this to be heard in Parliament. We are fully aware that we are in a very difficult situation. Nor do we welcome nor are we talking about success story, at least in the way, the methods and approaches used by the previous governments. We know that we are in a situation where we are experiencing a painful compromise - we know that very well - we know the difficulties that many people have in our country, young people, poor strata. We're doing everything we can for it. We're giving an honest, hard and daily fight of all ministries. And that's where we have to be judged. We cannot be judged beyond that. It's a very suffocating context. It is also known that the Minister for Finance has recently asked - and has entered the negotiation process - greater freedom in the day-to-day operation of both the ministries and the government in general, to escape from this suffocating framework in which we have been found. This is a little - very much the first and second part of the bill, but the part concerning what was termed the'mini tax' bill. I think it has positive elements, such as, for example, the problem of tax withholding 3% in the ILO for consortia, which is a regulation without any additional financial costs, because it is a withholding tax, which is netted. It is a positive provision, as is the provision of full exemption from the registration fee for cars, vehicles, etc., where they include ambulances and special mobile units, which have given us in the context of the refugee crisis and which we have so far not been able to use. I know, for example, that there are five, six specialist, very qualified medical units, which, if I remember, has given us the Netherlands. These units could not be used and I think we can now use them in refugee camps. Like other provisions, and of course, the provisions relating to the ENPI are undoubtedly in a positive direction. I want to say a word about it. It is a big problem with this particular tax, with which we have not finished our government's accounts. Our accounts aren't over. And I say this in my mind, not only our commitments and our declarations, but also a certain perspective. I do not want to say, of course, something very radical or to move forward, but it is also an issue which concerns both the government and the parliamentary group. It is a matter for which I think we should speed up our work and work out a fair distribution of this tax. And in this year's ENVY any charge there is is a burden on the great fortune. That's the reality. So I think that this is our primary task, that it is fair what we are implementing and doing, and of course we need to see, over time, this tax as a whole for exactly what we can do in the context of this closeness that we have. At this point I would like to say that, as you are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, since 2015, since the first budget that our Government has done, all the revenues from non-linear sources, as we say, are not estimated, do not exist within the budget. Therefore, any revenue from such actions, such as the one we are discussing, is added and can therefore be used. This is very important, because in the older budgets half of the budget, two and three more billion, supposedly, which we would have had from the fight against tax evasion and which were never collected. Here we really have a splendid splendid field of glory, so that we can get as much revenue as we can, because that will be very positive, that is, we can take action in the direction of the social state, which is, in any case, the first priority for our own government. I would really like to close, saying that there is no doubt, Mr Ministers, and I want you to listen to this - but you are talking to each other - that we have a problem with legislating. We have also pointed this out as a Parliamentary group many times and I would like to say this publicly here, from the Stephen of the House, that there are comments which are made and I hear them very carefully every time, which are made in the parliamentary procedure, which we must take very seriously. And since we are starting a new period from September, I would like to say quite clearly that the Group of the European People's Party will also be very pressing, so that we really have this development in the legislative work, which does not lead us to a difficult position, and the Ministries and the Parliamentary Group and the majority, always having regard to me and to us that we have exceptional situations. We live in very difficult situations. I mentioned before and the efforts made by the negotiating group to relax some of the issues that make us every day in violation, but we also have a separate responsibility. We must resolve this and deal with it. Because I have heard a terrible finding, in any case, a political conclusion in these days that we 'we've had' three defeats, one with the simple analogue, one with the initiative on the Constitution and one in yesterday's debate, I think it is rather funny, because this conclusion, which I would like to say, without exaggeration, is that what is happening is not that the government is in a phase of transition. What actually happens is that, above all, the Civic Opposition and - unfortunately, I say - I - parties who define themselves in the centre or the progressive centre have been caught in a process of deadlock. And after the closure of the first evaluation, they have been in an empty strategy. That's the reality. We also have difficult things in front of us in September, but a small corridor has been opened - I do not want to be excessive - where we can, with persistent and systematic work, do for the social state, for the sake of fair growth and for the institutions, very important things as the left-wing government and the ANLEs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u261	We are starting the cycle of the syllabuses of the rapporteurs and special speakers, with Mrs Papanatsiou first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u262	Last but not least, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u263	I do not know if it is better or worse, I have to start with the first rapporteur. Mr Anastasiades, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u264	Minister, should you tell us what amendments you are accepting, to refer to them in our dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u265	Are you talking about the MEPs, Mr Anastasiades?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u266	For all the amendments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u267	The Minister has already ruled on the ministers. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u268	The ministerial amendments are all accepted. As far as the Members of Parliament are concerned, Mr Kammenos is not accepted. I explained the reasoning. It's accepted...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u269	H under general number 591 and specialist 112.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u270	Yes, the general number 591 and a specialist from 112 Mr Balaura and Mrs Vagonakis is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Anastasiades, will you continue your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u272	I shall continue, Mr President, but Mr Balaura's amendment has not been taken. In any case, Mr President, Minister, as far as the bill is concerned, we have been absolutely consistent in the debate in the committees and in plenary, as is appropriate to the importance of the bill, in the chapters on combating smuggling and tax evasion, that is to say, the first and second chapters of the bill. Of course, we criticised the way you legislate, the fragmentation and insist on it, which you did not accept during your position, because it seems that you claim infallible and do not accept the criticism, that is to say, to a certain extent, you do not recognize the right as Opposition to criticize you. As far as the third chapter is concerned, we will also see it in our positioning articles. There are many issues and many of these articles will not be voted on. I'll see you in the process. I would like to turn to the amendments and, of course, on this occasion, I would like to refer again to something that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Anastasiades, I'm so sorry for the interruption. If I understood well from your position, you said that, when the voting procedure on the articles, you might be placed. However, no placement is foreseen at the time of the vote. If you want to place yourself on the articles, do it now. The placement will have the meaning of voting at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u274	We're placed. We're going to be placed positively or negatively, that's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u275	I'm sorry to interrupt. Your time will be replaced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u276	Because the chapters one and two are being voted on, so I have isolated them. In the third chapter we will say what articles we are voting on and who we are not voting on. The analysis and arguments were made in our position. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President, and thank you. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to say, as we said this morning, that the way you legislate is unthinkable. Of course, your parliamentary representative also accepted that, but that is not what he says. You are inaugurating a policy which is unacceptable to parliamentary data. It's never happened. It's the first time this has happened. You are demanding both the legislature and Parliament. In this way, Minister, this is not an alibi for you - it has never happened on 15.10 hours before we vote on amendments. I now turn to the individual issues of the amendments. We do not vote for Amendment No 570, which is yours, which I analysed in detail during my position this morning, because we believe you are going to correct a mistaken intervention again. Very soon you will be forced to make another correction. Of course, recognizing your first mistake, you're going to fix the second one. As far as the article on the health of the Ministry of Health is concerned, it is a matter here. You hear opinions and opinions on matters which are not your concern. That is why we say that this legislation is not right. Because the Minister came here this morning, told us everything nice and got up and left. We do not disagree on the issues of extensions that we consider necessary. However, in the first article, where powers and powers are given to the Minister to regulate everything - the criteria, the conditions, the committees, who will be recruited, who will make judgments - it is something we cannot accept. So, what does the Minister want to do? Where's he taking it? What does he want to do with it? To make a party "vilaeti" the Ministry of Health or all the health structures? We cannot vote for this, even though we wanted it. And here, because there is an injustice, as far as the third and fourth Ministry of Thessaloniki is concerned, and I would like the Minister to hear that. There are some doctors who, unequally treated with all others in Greece, have not been judged even though they have been justified in the relevant courts. And that's what the Minister needs to see. We are not voting for the amendment, although the regulations are right, because the first article creates partisan 'vilae'. Amendment No 583 by the Ministry of Finance on the rationalisation and collection of retention, we are voting on it because it is moving in the right direction. Now, with regard to Amendment 585, Mr Minister, it could be a bill alone. It could also be the subject of a separate legislative initiative. Ten articles cannot come to an amendment. Here, despite the fact that there are issues such as the persistence of the exemptions that are being abolished, we agree, but we cannot vote on it, because other articles are incorporated. For example, Article 2 refers to the fact that those who carry out checks are exempted from any disciplinary exercise, any criminal liability to waive cases. Who's gonna make the choice, what assumptions are the agencies going to control?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u277	I'm going to make that clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u278	I want you to clarify that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u279	No, not now, Minister. Let the views and positions of all speakers and rapporteurs be heard. Pick up the questions that may arise and answer the end. If we take it like that with a one-one...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u280	Also, in the amendments referred to in Articles 121 and 123 concerning 'Euro 6' and 'Euro 5' for the collection of the special registration fee, the mistake you had made again in the wrong way goes to correct it. This cannot work because the Ministry of Transport accepts the Euro 6 as the European Union and the Ministry of Finance fails to accept the initials and classify them in Euro 5. Accordingly, it also applies to Euro 5, as the originals are classified in Euro 4. This is not the way to fix it. You are not correcting it, but you are moving it for December. And what's next? You know that since the 1st of the month. No cars, trucks and passenger cars can be cleared. Why don’t you find a permanent way to fix it or, anyway, listen to others? We're not voting for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u281	Mr Anastasiades, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u282	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm done. We said Amendment No 586 that we were voting on it. As far as Amendment No 587 is concerned, we are saying 'PARENTS'. As far as Amendment No 592 is concerned, we are also saying 'PARENTS' because it came on 15.10' time. That's why. With regard to Mr Balaura's amendment, which we have just taken, I do not know exactly what he says and we shall vote 'PARON' because we have not seen it, we do not know it. Half an hour before the draft was passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr Anastasiades. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Carachostas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u284	I will not speak at all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u285	All right, Mr. Caracosta. The next speaker is Mr Koutsoukos from the Democratic Alliance. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the bill is concerned, I have told the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - and I said in my speech - that because it is an institutional bill and has positive provisions on the fight against smuggling and tax evasion in tobacco products, we will vote 'NAI' in principle, despite the fact that we could find a number of arguments due to the provisions of Part Three, but we could, in particular, differ because of the amendments, because it seems that the Government does not respect an institutional procedure which had positive features, as the Minister said and which seems to be a broader consensus. It is not that it respects the parties, but it does not respect Parliament itself, because what has just been done, namely that an amendment should be tabled on 15.10 hours for the staff accompanying the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence and the hotels that will be staying, is totally unacceptable. Is there an emergency trip that needs to be done tonight? The JRC Parliamentary spokesman told you that he has a bill tomorrow, as he did tomorrow. Finally, there must be a limit. Mr Mandas, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, was very noble in his remarks. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] I would like to inform you, Minister, that the President-in-Office, Mr Kremastinos, myself, Mr Koukoulopoulos and other PASOK officials, as Parliamentary Representatives, have sent back amendments because they were inappropriate, delaying and insulting the parliamentary process. Do you have any competence to accept these amendments? Has anyone authorized you? So we don't have to put that type of thing on. Protect Parliament. If you don't want to protect the government and yourself, how much we care. So I come to this rain of amendments because, as I said, the amendments are a new bill. The amendment under the general number 585 and a special 105 by the Minister of Finance has eleven articles. What characterizes it, in particular, is the fact that it suspends the imposition of the additional tax on agricultural parcels. I would remind you that the rate of imposition of 300 000 went to the 200 thousand by the government that would abolish HISA. So the simulation you've done, the test print, took you out that the entire province was going to rise and inhibit it for a year. Mr. Mada, with all due respect, you haven't booked the bills, but your government can't make any good bills. It has estimated that the loss will be 230 million, but it says it will not affect receipt. In other words, with changes in land rates, changes in rates in buildings used for industrial plants and so on, the certificate can reach up to 4 billion. I don't know. The Minister has to tell us. The other provision which is problematic, Mr Minister, is what has to do with the choices of the heads of the General Secretariat. Watch out. By way of prior provision, you have abolished Mr Vernardakis' regulation on transitional provisions on the choices of heads, which are supposed to be objective and practicable. Now what are you doing here? The pre-service, which is of no relevance, will also be counted. I mean, he got his degree, worked for another profession, and that's what you're counting on. And the one who ate his youth at the Ministry, to learn the tax provisions, will fall short. And you're going to make chiefs whom the independent authority will inherit. What's that? Isn't that too rhysphetological? I don't know if you're photographing some people, but since you're constantly accusing us of this Step, you have to tell us why you're doing it. Here too, there are the provisions that you refer to in the tax certificate. The tax certificate was compulsory because you know that there is no audit and the tax authority must check whether there is a certificate, whether taxes have been paid, etc. Why do you make it optional? With regard to the criminal responsibilities of officials who will choose tax evasion cases - one colleague told you - you were forced by the troika to bring it. You've brought it before, there's been a reaction and you took it back. Now you've solved the problems. Also, as regards transferring the cases from the ILO to the General Secretariat, we have been struggling since the adoption of the provision on what is going to happen with these cases. You're setting up a procedure. Right. We told you to check the issues of limitation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, excuse me. We are talking about new things and we have asked the beginning to have some time to put ourselves in. We're not placed for them. It's different, we saw them last night. Allow me, if you have kindness, a little tolerance. Furthermore, I will not go into what I agree will be the vote. Because there are a few things that we agree, such as 3%, on automobile exemption, classification, etc. With the other amendment, which refers to fines, you go to treat this naivety with which you legislated. You abolished the fines and legislate, I told you, in a completely clipboard, summer. We cannot accept it as it is. He needs more conversation. This process cannot be solved by amendments. With regard to Mr Juliarakis' amendment on the reimbursement of sums wrongly paid, I think it is on the right basis and we shall vote on it, as is the case with the Ministry of Culture for the self-consciousness of archaeologists. Now, with regard to the amendment by the Ministry of Sport, one could ask Mr Contonis why, while the championship starts soon, he did not make these arrangements earlier. We, as PASOK, have taken the lead in the online ticket, against violence and hooliganism. But there had to be a dialogue. And they tell me that you poorly abolish the motives of the Olympics from the fourth, fifth and sixth positions. This will be at the expense of the clubs. I don't know why Mr. Contonis does it. To finish with Mr Polakis' amendment, which he did not expect to hear our criticism. Generally speaking, we agree. With this in mind, Mr President, I would like to point out our strong opposition - we have spoken in detail about these - to articles in the bill. In particular, Article 40, Article 45, where the Minister did not explain why he extends this deadline, and Article 47, which abolishes the refund of VAT to farmers on the people's markets. And one final comment. You have unreservedly accepted a parliamentary amendment. We are going to vote on it, because it is going to solve a real problem. But every time, we solve this problem for three months. You were asked by the municipalities to extend until 31 December. We had given three months of extension and three months of extension. Mr Minister, you accepted it and Mr Kammenos did not accept it because it is another ministry. With two meters and two stations you'll finally legislate. This is another observation. Thank you, Mr President, for this little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u287	Thank you too, Mr. Kutsuko. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Delis for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u288	Thank you. We've been placed on the main features of the bill. We have raised his axes, the points on which we disagree. We have made it clear from the outset that we are not conducting a trial of intent. We do not question intentions in connection with the fight against smuggling. Just as this is the case, and as is provided for in the provisions with the active involvement of the multinational tobacco industries, we fear that this treasure will ultimately be carbon. We want to talk a little bit about the parliamentary amendments. Of course, the absence of the competent ministers shows the unorthodoxness of the process. But I'll see you in the Minutes. Let me start a little - he's been here for two, three days is the truth - from the Ministry of Health. He has several paragraphs. Most relate to extensions, not for a very long time, but until the end of 2016, which is not far away. We must, however, stand by paragraph 5 in particular, which extends the possibility of sanitary staff moving from ICM to ICM. Does he open the way? Does it state what comes from the new bill, in relation to public mobility, which already exists of course and is expected to increase? We are vertically opposed to such mobility, which does nothing but attempt to vain the great gaps that exist in staff at the hospitals in the country. It also concerns us, because despite giving a prolongation of the term of office to auxiliary doctors and health staff by 30 September 2017, it sets a precondition that this will be possible, provided that there is budgetary appropriations for hospitals or the relevant OSH. What if they don't exist? What's gonna happen? Won't he prolong? What does that mean, for an area that stays without subsidiary doctors? Not only for doctors, but mainly for the people who live there and need medical care. I move on to the amendment by the Ministry of Culture. We asked the Minister a question. He didn't answer. I think silence, too, is an answer. It is a project to digitize, to record the hundreds of thousands of archaeological objects, which will last for many years. Part of it was entrusted to workers under fixed-term contracts, which expired or expired. This amendment is coming to give them an extension by the end of 2016 and this one. However, there is no provision for this project to be completed by the end of 2016. It's gonna take years, like I said. These archaeological objects are estimated at about four hundred fifty thousand, of which ninety thousand are assigned to workers and the remaining two hundred sixty thousand to contractors, to various computer companies. That was not the Minister's answer, but we said that his silence was an answer too. Meanwhile, the payroll of these contractors is systematically delaying. And, of course, we will vote, we have no problem. Even one day we'd vote for it. Even the slightest measure, that is, we will support it. But at the same time, we want to say that this extension does not respond to the need for the project itself to be completed in a reasonable time, but also to the great need, which workers have for permanent and stable work. Finally, with regard to the amendment by the Ministry of Sport, we will vote 'the present'. Of course, we also have several disagreements and first of all - the first Committee on Professional Sport at the Ministry of Sports. We don't understand why professional sport should belong to the State Secretary for Sports. In our opinion, it should belong to the Ministry of Development. We're talking about professional sport. The Ministry of Sports should belong to amateur sport. This is a first observation. For the financial reward of athletes, we disagree. We believe it is the state's obligation to support athletes in every way, so that they can get to where they can get to, and if they have a success, small or large, it is not important that they should be exploited - and this will be their reward - for the development of mass and amateur sport. Now, in relation to the fan card, which Mr. Kontonis told us, which is connected, of course, to the online ticket, you know that this fan card will also contain personal data, identity data, etc. Who will control this electronic ticketing and operation system? But the PAIs, i.e. the big businessmen, who break down the field of professional football and basketball. The argument is that we will be dealing with violence in this way. We usually bring England as an example. Violence in England just changed space, left the stadiums and came out in the neighborhoods, the violence was not eliminated. Besides, it's a social phenomenon, and that's where it's rooted. We disagree with the fan card and, above all, we disagree with the possibility that large-scale UAE owners will have their own personal data of tens of thousands of fans for every use, even to set up hosts. Finally, with regard to the anonymous sports companies and the obstacle that the amendment puts down - a common practice - and then in various ways, changing names by the owners, raising charges, we must say that in this way we may have cases where these groups - small or large, it does not matter, everyone as they see - who will at some point have the opportunity to go up to professional categories, will avoid doing so with what this means for the sports games that are involved, because they will inherit and the debts that they will have to pay. In short, this professional football is so rotten, that you're going to make something and it spoils something else, it doesn't split, it doesn't get any of this kind of reeds. Overall, for this amendment from the Ministry of Sport, we will vote'residents'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Amyras, special speaker of the party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are now reaching the end of this long, I would say, of course. We have discussed too many issues about tobacco smuggling. I shall not, therefore, repeat either our disagreements or where we agree, but I shall add some new elements to some of the amendments. He mentioned it earlier, I think, and Mr Anastasiades too. I refer to Amendment No 585, Article 4. According to this amendment, which I must say is a mini bill - it has eleven articles, it is many pages and it is also late - the institutions of the tax administration are exempted from any disciplinary, civil or criminal liability in the performance of their duties, if the cases which have not been selected and have not been checked are dropped. What does that mean? It means it changes what we knew to this day. With the legislation in force and on the basis of the staff code, auditors, tax collectors, customs officers, were charged with some cases and under the legislation they had, within specific deadlines, to go beyond control. Now, if the auditors fail to do so for all reasons, which I do not say are responsible themselves, and these cases of fraudulents, who are known in any case to the popularised "lakes" who drink the blood of the healthy Greek society, these auditors, Mr Alexiadis, do not bear any responsibility. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm afraid I don't. We have the fact that, every three and one, we have employees' transfers, movements, the fact that we do not have an increased number of auditors, the fact that the audit mechanisms, every three and every three, change either a hat or a hat and an AIFM become an AIFM, then become an SGM, then become an SGM, then become an SGM. Where's that thing going? Does it not have responsibility for deleting the cases, other than the officials and the head of authority, namely the Ministry and the Minister concerned? What are the criteria, Minister, for selecting cases from auditors and on what basis will the priority be given? I come to the other amendments. First of all, I should like to point out that Mrs Vayonakis and Mr Balaura's parliamentary amendment under a general number 591, the same amendment, had come to another, unrelated bill three months ago, by the same Members for the FOD and had been rejected by the government at that time. What's changed in three months? Because the amendment is identical. Let's go to the other amendments. In Amendment No 570 by the Ministry of Finance, we say 'no'. In Amendment No 575 by the Ministry of Health we say 'no'. In Amendment No 583 on the redefinition of the method and procedure for the collection of sums wrongly paid, we say 'yes'. In Amendment No 585 by the Ministry of Finance, which has amendments to the Code, we say 'no'. In the amendment by the Ministry of Culture's general number 587 on the redefinition of the composition of the Committee on Professional Sport, we are voting'residents'. In the other amendment by the Ministry of Culture on the extension of contracts for private works of a fixed term, we say 'yes'. In Amendment No 592, which you brought to us a moment ago, on the journeys of the Prime Minister, the Ministers, etc. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us a reply to this question. Firstly, why did he come here about an hour and a half ago and, secondly, why it has not been explained exactly. Is this about the Prime Minister's trip to Paros on Friday? I guess. If he goes to Paros, let's go to Antiparos across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Amyra...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u292	But we haven't been justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u293	It's the practice of the case...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u294	Yeah, but tell me, so far what happened? For a year and a half, was he in danger? Let's go down. In Amendment No 591, which I mentioned initially on the merger of FODs in the regional FODs, we will vote on 'PARS'. One last thing, Minister. In simple terms, you can tell us, because we've broken our heads here, and we're reading and rereading, and we can't figure it out, what about hybrids? If you have the hybrids inside, like the rest of them clearly, we vote 'yes'. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] That is what I wanted to say and I will end with this. I wish this draft law, which is more or less the European part of this draft law, the incorporation of European law, will give the Greek state a lead in confronting this monster, called the smuggling of tobacco products. As I have said to the committees and I am not tired of saying it, tobacco is the only legal substance, with such extensive trafficking.The right path would be for everyone to cut the cigarette. But if they don't cut the cigarette, at least let's cut the smugglers and taxmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. The rapporteur, Mr Kammenos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u296	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said in my report after very great debate, on an extremely interesting bill, the Independent Greeks support the entire bill at first, for the reasons I explained. We will also support the articles. I will make two - three comments to colleagues' comments. The security of the Prime Minister and of the Ministers, as it stands, is a matter of common sense. They have to stay in the same hotel. I do not know why it has not been solved so far. That's a question. But solving it now is no reason to deny it. I don't know, i.e. if the Prime Minister was staying in a hotel x and his security was staying next door, because then he's got no insurance. If he was staying without a law, without covering the revenues, there was something illegal. But anyway, practically it has to be solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u297	That's what I'm saying, they haven't told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u298	With regard to the fan cards - and as a fan I say it - a normality needs to be introduced, so that we know who it is. I don't mind on the Olympic court asking the AMKA every time I go. We need to know who's got the ticket. To become an ID and to know which seat is who and if anyone is doing some unlawful act and has given his ticket to another, we should know that he, who is responsible for entering and delivering his own season ticket, is also accountable against the authorities if he violates any legislation. From there on, we are talking about the civil responsibilities of officials. Here I would remind you that we have had discussions with the Minister on the subject and on the agenda. There was in this state the following magical picture. An employee at the Treasury found a taxi and sent him to court. This fugitive, because it was a big economic surface, put his lawyers in the actions of the DU for civil liability, for what you can imagine, a breach of duty, everything, and the Greek State did not have a single defender. He did not go to the lawyer of the Greek State and "created" with the SAD, without his fault. And in the end he said, "Why should I sit here and look for Amyras, Kammenos and Koutsuko? I'm not looking for anyone, because I'm not covered by anyone." But we also solved it in the DU abroad, which we found last year, if I remember correctly, many irregularities went and two and three advocates of the Greek State to defend the interests of the Greek State. Not only the civil servant, the employee, because he's a state employee. He's doing his job, he's not blackmailing anyone. So it has to be protected. From there on, for the limitations, what's going on? Many cases - and that was a last question I asked the Minister and it is to be checked, I have also sent the question to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue - have left the Ministry, they have gone to the General Secretariat of Income. So, if two, three, five thousand 2016 files have left the competence of the officials and gone under the responsibility of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, I don't know if that's where they've been prioritised. How, in what way? By amount, per VAT, per region? How many people does he have? When are they going to go through with this? If, however, sums are dropped - and this brings about a crime - we may be able to say justly, for example, why the Kammenis amounted? Who checked it out for him? Officials must therefore be protected because this is likely to be an infringement, not of the procedure under the responsibility of their official or director, but because of the workload. There are tens of thousands of cases that left this morning and went to the General Secretariat of Public Income. That's what the public will see, and we said to see both the staff and the technical adequacy and much more. I have asked a question, to see how the General Secretariat of Public Revenue will prejudge the thousands of files it has taken, to see how it will go to collect those that have not been collected or not to be recorded. As far as the other amendments are concerned, we shall vote on them all. I shall not mention them one - and colleagues have mentioned them too. We have no objections. In my amendment I understand, Minister, your concern. I am pleased to see it as positive almost all Parliament's wings. We have to look at this because it is extremely sensitive. There should be no smoke in the refineries. Let some great revenues be made manifestly or in secret from the big companies, which hide them, as I said, and send them abroad. We're losing that from taxable matter. They keep showing me that they are charging costs and they are not being taxed, i.e. they do not pay profits, to tax the public companies and at the same time, 1%, 2%, when a private person defines it and is not protected by that State, so that it does not shut down without breaking the competition rules, imagine having a taxable item in every transaction with POS instead of 0.3%, having 6.5%, 7% per transaction with the protection of margins. Because there's 80% of the cigarette. We're talking about billions. These billions of turnover, if we do not protect them, we will not tax anything. I'm saying another part of the whole picture we're talking about. It is not only their protection, but also the public, when in one billion it can tax 5% of the turnover, that is to say it will go to get several tens of thousands of euros, but instead of the 100,000 euros taxable materials after the POS, it goes and gets 3 000 euros in the billion, we have also been destroyed as an economy. Look, we helped him, who controls the tariff, and he tells you take it or lead it, take it, that's it, sell it. I hope that when the time comes for us to discuss it at the Ministry of Development and Economy with Mr Stathakis, we will also find there a prosperous ears. It is a move, which will show which of this government and, rather, which of all the colleagues who supported it, that we are close to the people in the neighborhood - and tens of thousands of these families - are - not for voting reasons, but we must support the family business, which is the backbone of the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u299	Thank you too, Mr. Kammenos. Mr Katsiantonis, special speaker of the Centron Union, has the floor. Mr. Katsiantoni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. We'll support the bill. We have also been placed in the committees at the outset. In the articles there is no reason to sit down right now to explain exactly what we are going to vote on, because we will soon be placed, anyway. I just want you, Mr Minister, to explain the hybrids to the Minister, because we really cannot understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u301	Thank you too, Mr. Katsiantoni. Mrs. Papanatsiou, SYRIZA Special Rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the government's declared will to clash with corruption. From the untouched tax evasion lists and even smuggling, our logic is the same: Back to legality, with a view to the fair development and the fight against the unjust system which had been diligently based either in knowledge or in ignorance of the former responsible parties. It is a question of morality for us, not only to collide with the imperfections of the system, but also to complete our plan that will pave the way for a more operational and more rational framework for the operation of the services and structures of the state, but also of businesses. Ladies and gentlemen of the PASOK, we have listened with surprise to you to wonder what class policy is and what is a policy to combat tax evasion. You have a short memory and don't ask yourself what the government does, which you didn't do. The lists who hid them? The extrajudicial compromise with “SIEMENS” who signed it? Social class policy, ladies and gentlemen, is the coverage of uninsured health systems, the treatment of the humanitarian crisis, the income from the controls, the lists that have been taken care of by some to hide, which are transformed into what relief measures we can bring, given the situations and the debts charged by the country. Let us remind you of the debt levels in 2009 and debt levels in 2014 and 2015 after two medium-terms and a PSI: 120% of GDP in 2009, 175% later. I shall refer to two - three more issues that have been raised by some other speakers. A colleague was anxious for the cutter if he'd be activated. With EUR 2.5 billion primary surplus in the first half of 2016, it amounts to 1.5% of GDP. Do not hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the cut will be activated. As far as the refugee issue is concerned, for all of us it is a matter of principle and of moral value. The scenic right-wing krone that has been heard, only lies and division, they want to impose. They will not succeed, they will not prevent any international organisations, any embassy of states or charitable organisations from showing their sensitivity, offering assistance to refugees and our country. As far as the ENPI is concerned, I will repeat once again that the parcels will not be included in the supplementary tax. Despite what has been written for a long time about new increases and terrorism by specific media, nothing changes at all in relation to the calculation of the tax. Any charges that will arise compared to 2015 will be for EUR 200,000 and, above all, for new objective values, by applying the decision of the Council of State, in order to make the distribution of the tax fairer. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously neither a law nor a verbal solution will solve the problem. Controlling the supply chain, keeping the register, re-checking licences and sending data, but also tracing, I think, are issues which are not virginity. We didn't find out. It's just, you didn't want or you couldn't carry out and legislate. Policies that have accepted Services and Customs have helped, as I mentioned by official figures, to reduce the revenue from the taxes involved, while reducing the seizures of smuggled products. You've been able to talk about smuggling people all these years. Move against smugglers and smugglers of products you couldn't or didn't want. We believe that the institutional framework goes hand in hand with the government's will to conflict with the irregular procedures. We're modernising the framework. We create structures and hope, as has been said before, that we change attitudes and behaviours, but do not blind ourselves. We know it will be time-consuming, but for us, it will be legality, fair growth and the fight against tax evasion, as with numbers we have shown in this one-and-a-half-year government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mrs. Papanaceu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u305	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u306	I would like to point out something about the amendment to cover the costs of accommodation of those who will accompany the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Ministers and so on. I have a very recent information that this comes so deliberately, Minister, because the Prime Minister wants to cover the costs of the bag of fifty two people in Paros. The Prime Minister is going to launch something and the information is that this comes with this urgent procedure - what Mr Karathanasopoulos said, because you do not bring it tomorrow, because he has a bill tomorrow - to cover the costs of living fifty-two people who will accompany the Prime Minister there. It's a disgrace! We, of course, do not vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u307	The Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Anastasiades, do you have any proof of what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u309	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u310	He's saying a piece of information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u311	All right, the minister will answer. You don't have to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u313	He says here about security escorts. Does the Prime Minister have 50 or two security escorts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u314	The Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u315	But does she have 50 or two security escorts? Don't go crazy now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u316	Deal. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u317	I shall reply, Mr President, to what has been said. First of all, I must say from the outset that it is necessary in the draft law: ‘Amendments to the National Customs Code... etc.’, to add the self-evident ‘and other provisions’ at the end, after ‘/37/EC’. Thank you. I would also like to respond to the issues raised, well-meaningly and with a political response, in the context of political criticism and confrontation. First of all, I would like to stress that the political questions I raised about PASOK and the New Democracy - about what their representatives have said in relation to Article 40 11B - remain unanswered. And in politics, when it comes to an argument, on a question, on a matter, you do not answer, it is a specific position. Non-response doesn't mean it disappears, like a magic cloud, the matter. This case will have continuity, it will have incidents, it will have revelations and it will be burdened by the two political parties, which I have called on them to take a stand on this issue or to give an answer to this issue. As far as Article 4 of the amendment is concerned and what has been said about taxation, which Alexiades is going to cover, and I will tell you this. With L.4342/2015 we did the following. The officials to date were responsible for the cases in their hands. Criteria for which cases will be checked were which cases are deleted and not what cases bear revenues to the Greek State. So what did we do with n.4342/2015? We said they had no responsibility for whether the cases would be filed in their hands, but they have responsibilities for whether to get a prioritisation of cases. In other words, a serial number will be entered in the cases they have and they will have to check number 1 after number 2, number 3, etc. They cannot go to number 30, defined by the agency - not subjective criteria - or any other factor. They should therefore be moved on the basis of the pre-emption of cases. And based on n.4342/2015, we said exactly this thing. What we are doing now is to say that those officials, the tax officials who will sit through risk analysis systems, through computerisation rather than subjective criteria - the criteria are specific - to prioritise the cases and give them to auditors, not to have the same responsibilities as auditors. Since auditors will check whether they have checked only the cases that have been pre-empted and not the issues of limitations, they cannot have responsibilities for the selection of cases for prioritisation. Because then we would have the effect of not turning against the official, but against what did the original job. That is what this amendment does. There is nothing behind this issue. They don't hide aliens, they don't hide monsters, they don't hide myths. As far as the issue of the ENPI is concerned, we are clear that the ENPI is aimed at collecting EUR 2.65 billion, with a certificate of 3.3 billion. That's it this year. That's what we're committed to. 4336 voted by two hundred and twenty Members, and that is what we did. They tell us that from 300 million we have reduced it to 200 million. I would remind you, therefore, that there was a court decision on the basis of which we should reduce the objective values. We have therefore reduced the objective values. If we left the same limit, we'd have problems. So we have reduced this limit, but at the moment the Ministry of Finance is moving and making calculations. And that's something I want to be clear about. For some come out and say, "Why was Alexiades pushing to finish the statements, when HIS has not yet come out?" To calculate HISBIA, tax declarations must be finished, so that you can make the tax clearance scenarios. Because you should know who has tax exemptions and reductions. That is why we pushed for tax declarations to be made quickly. So now that we've done the first scenarios, it came out that in some cases we have large sums. Why? Because we have seen the fields of taxpayers in Grevena and Evrytania - which are not coastal counties - appear by the sea from the wrong completion of E9. So in order not to go to crazy values, we said that it is not technically possible to apply the supplementary tax on agricultural parcels this year. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some time to clear this up. But because there is one issue on the parcels, another is the field in Chrysochori Kavalas where I grew up and we have to put EVIA or not - the countryside is this and the plot - and another is the plot in Mykonos, Paros and Santorini which we want to exempt from any property tax. Be reasonable and compare similar things. One thing and the other. However, next year we will have the opportunity to see exactly what the parcels are and to add or deduct value, depending on whether they are taxed, whether they are in mountain or mountainous areas and such things. It was quite rightly said by Christos Manda that HISPIA is not a tax we defend. It's a necessity and we'll strive to change it to bring a property tax more fair and more proportionate. With regard to your protest that some will have a higher tax, namely that about six million will have the same or less tax, as Mr Juliarakis said, and six hundred thousand will have an extra tax, I would like to say that that is our political difference. We want those who have a big fortune to pay more tax. That's a political difference. Those who have a bigger fortune to pay more. And that's what we're gonna do. And I now come to the issue of amendments from other ministries, because we are doing this, because we are accepting amendments from other ministries. I always want to be honest, although my honesty has cost me the year I'm in the government. I have contacted the Minister responsible for the Interior and I say: 'I have an amendment concerning you'. “ Yes, he tells me, he solves problems. Make it acceptable." I contacted Mr Stathakis and Mr Papaderakis who are responsible for the amendment brought by Mr Kammenos, who is facing a real problem and who is in the right direction and said to me that: 'This is what we want to talk about, we want to work on it. We also have a bill and we will deal with it." That is why we have accepted each other and the other we have not accepted it. There's no criterion or anything else hidden. A criticism has been made by the JRC that we have immunity to the large and that we are taxing the small ones. I've answered this thing, but I'll answer it again. First of all, the evidence I gave you is from the CEMP and from the CEMP. It's not from a small DUI with small taxpayers. It turns out that taxpayers have paid too much. I have said that again because your question about shipping has been answered and I wonder why you are not saying it and I will say it again today. In 2012, shipping paid taxes of 13,277,000. In 2015, you know how many times this number went up? Not twice and three times. He went up ten times. From the 13,277,000 he went to 139,026,000. Where are we going to take it? We'll take it to where we'll say: 'Is taxation so big, we're picking up and we're leaving and going elsewhere?' We must be reasonable in our criticism and see that our criticism must ensure the implementation of the budget, but also the competitiveness of the Greek economy. In relation to tax evasion, it is not right what was said by your representative. Other established, other taxes collected. In the information we have submitted, we have had more for the certified taxes and more for the taxes collected. Of course, the collection has increased very much and the 2016 figures show recovery. In relation to fines, we hear a criticism of why we brought the order. So what were we supposed to do? So long we have heard criticism here that the provision we had did not pay taxes and what was going on and they did not obtain proof. Now that we've brought the order, we've got a bewilderment because we brought the order for the big, the small, etc. But also for the criticism you're making to us about the circular the General Secretariat of Public Revenue and I learned it from the Internet. The General Secretariat of Public Revenues with laws passed by PASOK and the New Democracy and now blame us, is an independent agency. He can take out circulars without asking the minister, and he's right, he's taken off the circular, because they had to go out for checks and not waste any time. One more, the other one. As far as hybrids are concerned, let's make it clear. I have called the service actors and I am reading exactly what they have said to us: 'We are changing nothing about the taxation of hybrid cars. It remains their exemption with 50%, we simply clarify what purely electrical, they have a full exemption from the registration fee. The provision is beneficial for imported Euro 5, which will continue to be terminated at reduced rates.’ So we don't change anything about the taxation of hybrid cars. It is very clear and I tell you as the competent officials who support this whole process assure us. Because we hear a criticism of the results, I will close with that. If we had not achieved the results we have achieved, we would have had a review and you would say: 'What are you doing about tax evasion? What are you doing about smuggling? How do you do for the time being?’. Now that we have these results, you are beginning to have a review: 'From whom you are taxing and so on.''.'. We have a clear picture of what is going on. Large cases of tax evasion and smuggling are now taxed and are progressing properly. As far as the results are concerned, see the GDR press release today, which has produced for the second quarter of 2016 only the results of customs controls. Customs officers who have less than two thousand left, even though they have more work than customs throughout Europe, are doing an amazing job and are trying and having very serious results, not grievous, implied and other things that are heard in this House about these officials. Finally, because there was a criticism of the amendment on what was said about the travel of the Prime Minister and others, I think it is very clear what the amendment says. It says: 'The security escorts'. It's very clear. Read it. It says in it exactly what is predicted. The amendment is quite clear. If you do not want to vote on it, find a different statement. Finally, I would like to thank you again for what has been done in committee and for what has been done here. I want you to know that at the Ministry of Finance we are fighting and we have managed to do so, and not all of what some people had predicted, namely cutting, destroying, contagious, oppressing. Tax revenue is going well, it is going well with tax evasion and smuggling. We're not happy and we don't describe our own success story. It is all we have done so far to do much more and to respond to the people's mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, the Minister has made a reference and I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u320	What about, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u321	In the last speech by the Minister, they have the right to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u322	The debate is over. There's no speaker circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u323	I'm not invoking a new circle. Besides, I'm not a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u324	It must be your concern, otherwise everyone must be given the floor. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u325	I invoke Rule 64(2). As regards Amendment No 2 to the Rules of Procedure, I have two minutes to speak on the last intervention of the Minister as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u326	You have the floor for two minutes. But we must never have a circle of speakers again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u327	It's enough for me both minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u328	However, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for a new circle of speakers. He raised this matter with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u329	This isn't a new circle. I'm reacting to the intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u330	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u331	Minister, we are being tortured because there are parallel functions in this House - I am also in the committee of inquiry - and now I have to make a comment on the last part of your speech, which concerns a matter that divides us. If he broke up with me and you, I'd say it's a deepest political problem or a big misunderstanding. But you must be concerned that your word separates you from almost all opposition parties, except one, if my information is not cheating on me. I think that only the Golden Dawn did not mention the matter. We won't recycle the same conversation. However, I have to tell you this. From my timely question at the committee meeting and your previous intervention, you said you would name the past, PASOK, New Democracy, etc. I told you both in committee and here that the Pope of Rome to mention does not make us any sense. We're not concerned about whoever it is anytime! We are, however, concerned with the substance of things, the substance of your arrangements and your intervention in the case at issue. You have shown since the end of our previous confrontation that you do not have the full information. Although you know things and faces, the law has not been informed. And I would ask you one last time to see this arrangement again. After all, all the opposition parties told you, except one, to see her again. It's obvious to me now, because I've heard you so many times. For the latter I have been informed by my colleagues, I have not heard it, but it has been a political intervention and not an intervention with evidence. You need to be informed in depth, understand that without understanding it - so I hope - you are intervening in a cancellation dispute. This dispute is very different from a dispute concerning the tax content of a decision. By destroying this independence of justice, in this respect, you are creating a problem for yourself. If it is a question of service - and I believe you - - and not yours, you get into the middle of a problem, you take the place of one of the two companies that have a problem with each other, as you say at the beginning. And you are not obliged to do that, nor is it politically correct. On the contrary, it's wrong. I would ask you, therefore, to reconsider and as you have brought an amendment after the end of the debate and presented it a couple of hours ago, so now, before the end of the debate, you will have to get back an unjust, invasive pretext and unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u332	Did you hear the name, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u333	I don't care completely. And the Pope of Rome is, I don't care.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u334	Please, Minister, do not continue the debate. We're moving out of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, I would like the floor, if I may, before entering the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u336	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u337	We have been distributed by the services of the House, the body, which has sixty - seven articles. Amendments have been decoded and have been turned into articles. My question to you, then, is this: will we vote on the amendments as they have been tabled or as they are in the body in detail? Because if we vote on them as they have been tabled, I would remind you that the amendment of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Alexiades, has eleven articles. In other words, we want to vote in favour of others against.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u338	Look, the amendment as presented is single. If you want to be differentiated on the articles, you can say so. There's no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u339	If you give us the floor when we get there, I'd be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u340	To vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u341	With ‘yes’ or ‘no’. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u342	The debate is closed at the outset, under Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendments to the National Customs Code to strengthen the fight against illicit trade in tobacco and manufactured tobacco and the establishment of a Coordination Centre for the Combating of Smuggling, the harmonisation of Greek legislation to Council Decision 2009/917/JHA of 30 November 2009 on the use of information technology for customs purposes and other provisions of the Ministry of Finance and the transposition into national legislation of Articles 15, 16 and 18 of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u343	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u344	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u345	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u346	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u348	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u349	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u350	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u351	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendments to the National Customs Code to enhance the fight against illicit trafficking in tobacco and manufactured tobacco and the establishment of a Coordination Centre for the Combating of Smuggling, the harmonisation of Greek legislation to Council Decision 2009/917/JHA of 30 November 2009 on the use of information technology for customs purposes and other provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Finance and the transposition into national legislation of Articles 15, 16 and 18 of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u352	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u353	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u354	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u355	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u356	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u358	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u359	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u360	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u361	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u362	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u363	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u364	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u365	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u366	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u367	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u368	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u369	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u370	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u371	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u372	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u373	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u374	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u375	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u376	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u377	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u378	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u379	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u380	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u381	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u382	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u383	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u384	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u385	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u386	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u387	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u388	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u389	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u390	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u391	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u392	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u393	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u394	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u395	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u396	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u397	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u398	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u399	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u401	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u402	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u403	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u405	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u406	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u407	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u409	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u411	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u412	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u413	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u414	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u415	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u416	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u417	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u418	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u419	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u420	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u421	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u422	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u423	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u424	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u425	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u426	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u427	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u428	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u429	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u430	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u431	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u432	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u433	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u434	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u435	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u436	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u437	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u439	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u441	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u442	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u443	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u445	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u446	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u447	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u448	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u449	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u450	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u451	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u452	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u453	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u454	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u455	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u456	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u457	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u458	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u459	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u460	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u461	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u462	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u463	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u464	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u465	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u466	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u467	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u468	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u469	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u470	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u471	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u472	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u473	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u474	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u475	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u476	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u477	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u478	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u479	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u480	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u481	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u482	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u483	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u484	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u485	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u486	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u487	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u488	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u489	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u490	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u491	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u492	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u493	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u494	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u495	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u496	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u497	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u498	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u499	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u500	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u501	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u502	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u503	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u504	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u505	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u506	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u507	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u508	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u509	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u510	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u511	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u512	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u513	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u514	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u515	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u516	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u517	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u518	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u519	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u521	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u522	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u523	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u524	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u525	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u526	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u527	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u528	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u529	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u530	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u531	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u532	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u533	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u534	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u535	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u536	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u537	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u538	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u539	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u540	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u541	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u542	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u543	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u544	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u545	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u547	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u548	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u549	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u550	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u551	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u552	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u553	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u554	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u555	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u556	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u557	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u558	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u559	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u560	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u561	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u562	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u563	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u564	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u565	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u566	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u567	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u568	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u569	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u570	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u571	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u572	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u574	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u575	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u576	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u577	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u578	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u579	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u580	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u581	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u582	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u583	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u584	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u585	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u586	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u587	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u588	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u589	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u590	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u591	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u593	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u594	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u595	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u596	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u597	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u598	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u599	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u600	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u601	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u602	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u603	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u604	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u605	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u606	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u607	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u608	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u609	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u610	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u611	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u612	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u613	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u614	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u615	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u616	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u617	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u619	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u620	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u621	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u622	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u623	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u624	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u625	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u626	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u627	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u628	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u629	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u630	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u631	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u632	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u633	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u634	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u635	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u636	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u637	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u638	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u639	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u640	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u641	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u643	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u644	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u645	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u646	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u647	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u648	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u649	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u650	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u651	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u652	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u653	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u654	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u655	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u656	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u657	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u658	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u659	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u660	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u661	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u662	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u663	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u664	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u665	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u666	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u667	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u668	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u669	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u670	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u671	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u672	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u673	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u674	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u675	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u676	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u677	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u678	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u679	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u680	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u681	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u682	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u683	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u684	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u685	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u686	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u687	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u688	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u689	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u690	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u691	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u692	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u693	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u694	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u695	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u696	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u697	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u698	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u699	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u700	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u701	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u702	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u703	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u705	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u706	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u707	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u708	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u709	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u710	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u711	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u712	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u713	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u714	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u715	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u716	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u717	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u718	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u719	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u720	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u721	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u722	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u723	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u724	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u725	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u726	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u727	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u728	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u729	Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u730	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u731	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u732	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u733	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u734	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u735	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u736	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u737	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u738	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u739	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u740	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u741	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u742	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u743	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u744	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u745	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u746	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u747	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u748	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u749	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u750	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u752	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u753	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u754	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u756	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u757	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u759	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u760	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u761	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u762	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u763	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u764	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u765	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u766	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u767	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u768	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u769	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u770	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u771	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u772	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u773	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u774	Article 47 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u775	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u776	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u777	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u778	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u779	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u780	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u781	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u782	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u783	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 49, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u784	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u785	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u786	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u787	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u788	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u789	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u790	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u791	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u792	Article 49 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u793	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u794	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u795	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u796	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u797	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u798	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u799	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u800	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u801	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 570 and a special number of 106 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u802	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u803	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u804	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u807	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u808	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u810	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 570 and a special 106 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 575 and a speciality of 107?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u811	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u812	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u813	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u814	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u816	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u817	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u818	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u819	The amendment under a general number of 575 and a special 107 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 583 and a specialist of 108 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u820	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u821	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u822	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u823	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u824	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u825	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u826	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u827	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u828	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 583 and a specialist of 108 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 585 and a special number 109, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u829	Mr President, I would like to say that Amendment No 585 is the one with eleven articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u830	Who do you not vote for from these eleven, then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u831	We are voting 'NAI' in Articles 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 and 11. We are voting 'OK' on Articles 3 and 9. We declare ‘PARTS’ in Article 4.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u832	Thank you. The difference was recorded in the Minutes, but the amendment as an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u833	We will have to vote on the amendment as I agree with others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u834	All right, they've been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u835	Mr President, I would also like to tell you our vote on this amendment. We are voting 'YES' on Article 55. We are voting 'OK' on Articles 56 and 57. We declare ‘PARTS’ to Articles 54, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 and 64.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u836	Will this House therefore ask whether the amendment is accepted under a general number 585 and a special number 109, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u837	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u838	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u839	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u841	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u842	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u843	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u844	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u845	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 585 and a specialist of 109 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 586 and a special number 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u846	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u847	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u848	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u849	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u850	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u851	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u852	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u853	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u854	Therefore, Amendment No 586 and Special Representative 110 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 587 and a special number 111, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u855	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u857	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u858	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u860	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u861	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u862	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u863	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 587 and a special 111 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number of 592 and a specialist of 113 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u864	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u865	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u866	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u867	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u868	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u869	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u870	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u871	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u872	So the amendment under general number 592 and a special 113 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 591 and a specific 112 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u873	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u874	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u875	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u876	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u877	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u878	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u879	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u880	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u881	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 591 and a specialist 112 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u882	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u883	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u884	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u885	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u886	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u887	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u888	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u889	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u890	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendments to the National Customs Code to enhance the fight against illicit trafficking in tobacco and manufactured tobacco and the establishment of a Coordination Centre for the Combating of Smuggling, the harmonisation of Greek legislation to Council Decision 2009/917/JHA of 30 November 2009 on the use of information technology for customs purposes and other provisions, the competence of the Ministry of Finance and the incorporation into national legislation of Articles 15, 16 and 18 of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on the articles. We are entering the vote on the entire bill. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u891	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u892	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u893	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u894	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u895	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u896	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u897	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u898	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u899	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendments to the National Customs Code to enhance the fight against illicit trafficking in tobacco and manufactured tobacco and the establishment of a Coordination Centre for the Combating of Smuggling, the harmonisation of Greek legislation to Council Decision 2009/917/JHA of 30 November 2009 on the use of information technology for customs purposes and other provisions, the competence of the Ministry of Finance and the incorporation into national legislation of Articles 15, 16 and 18 of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u900	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u901	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of Monday 23 May 2016, Wednesday 25 May 2016, Thursday 26 May 2016, Friday 27 May 2016 and Monday 30 May 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u902	The minutes of Monday 23 May 2016, Wednesday 25 May 2016, Thursday 26 May 2016, Friday 27 May 2016 and Monday 30 May 2016 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-27-S1-commons.u903	With the consent of this House at 19.00, the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, July 28, 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, only debate and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law: "Definition of the Council of Europe Convention on Crimes in Cyber and its Additional Protocol, on the criminalisation of acts of racist and xenophobic nature, committed through Computer Systems - Transfer to Greek law of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on attacks against information systems and the replacement of Council Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA, arrangements for penal and anti-crime policy and other provisions", in accordance with the supplementary agenda that has been distributed to you.
