ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's approval from 8-5-2016, the PLAC's minutes were confirmed by the Bureau at its meetings on Sunday 8 May 2016, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law "The Single Social Security System - Reform of Insurance - Pension System - Reform of Income Tax and Gambling Regulations and Other Provisions".]] We start with the honorary event to celebrate Mother's Day. After three years of silence this year, in 2016, the parliament decided once again to honour this day. The Vice-President, I, on behalf of the Government, will be present for six minutes, Mr Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, and colleagues and fellow Members appointed by the parliamentary groups. We all know the world holiday is rich. There are celebrations, there are anniversarys dedicated to heroic events or to great historical times or to contagious persons who signify much. They are a anniversary that honors the memory of people who gave their lives to make our own life better, are an anniversary for events that changed the course of history and must, regardless of when they happened, be celebrated again and again, so that every generation can register them in its memory and be part of its history and culture. The anniversaryers seek, when celebrated, to show some separate days so that they do not pass to collective or personal oblivion. Because, regardless of each man's personal time on earth, there is always historical time, the great heritage of mankind that gives every man, to each one of us, the wealth of a past that defines his own personal course in the world. There is, however, a worldwide celebration that goes beyond all the characteristics of world celebrations at both symbolic and material level. It is the mother's celebration that has been celebrated since May 9, 1914 every year and has been established to celebrate the second Sunday every May around the world. It is a very personal celebration for all people and at the same time deeply universal. It is a celebration that not only mobilizes on that day genuine and genuine emotions, but every day. It's a celebration that doesn't mobilize our memory just once a year, but every day and every moment. She's the mother of each and every one of us. It is the person to whom all of us owe our existence, regardless of color, race, class, education, religion, national and social origin, ideological and political viewpoint. It's probably the only world day that unites all people. The role of the mother, irreplaceable and catalytic in all corners of the earth, in all cultures. The influence of her presence or her absence on our adult life is decisive. It teaches emotions that many people may never meet again in their lives, true love, unselfish offering, unhypocritical compassion, sincere understanding, self-sacrificing, ever present, the eye that monitors, forgives, understands, encourages, admires. Overprotective or not, authoritarian or liberal, educated or illiterate, working or householder, oppressed or man-made, confirmed or defeated, is always there for her children. "Apart from your mother, no one remembers you on this scary journey of chaos," which is the life of each of us, says the fascinating lyric of Nikos Kavadia. An endless rotation of roles that shape generations where from children we become parents and from girls mothers and grandmothers and so we slowly realize, even in later times, the role of mother, mother, mother. Forgive, thank you, nostalgic, and through this self-awareness we are really grown up. That's why the mother's loss is a blow to whatever age, even to the deep old age, for men and women. It's the orphan that brings the symbolic adulthood of all of us. It's the dog we get in our hands to complete the next cycle of life. On such a day the House could not speak of the mother's feast, about mothers living in our country, about Greek mothers who at present experience an unprecedented insecurity, labour, social, family. They experience the fear of unemployment or unemployment itself, precariousness, black work, dissolution of the social state, the inability to meet the needs of their children for education or having educated their children, to see them smuggling in their children's rooms due to unemployment or to say goodbye to the airports that go abroad or even - even to "fuck them" with their poor pension in their new lives. To tighten the teeth to raise the grandchildren without calculating fatigue. And together women refugees and immigrants who live in our country who give the battle for survival, the fight to ensure their children a better life, even if death often is the price. These modern heroines escaped war and poverty and live their own Golgotha for a better future. These mother models Greek women and foreigners are honored today by the Greek Parliament and we are proud and proud of their daily struggle, teaching love, dignity, altruism and self-sacrifice. Happy birthday. Thank you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] [[Applause]] On behalf of SYRIZA, Mrs Karasarlidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday was the mother's day we owe her to American activist Anna Jarvis. On this day we dedicate it symbolically to the mothers of all the world to tell them first of all a great thank you for bringing us to life, for everything they have done and doing for us and to express our gratitude for their invaluable offer to the formation of each of us and thus to our society. At the core of the celebration of this day and behind its merchandise there is a very timely idea, the political and social importance of motherhood. And I'm not talking about motherhood just as a biological relationship, but as a life attitude. I will talk about motherhood in a way perhaps a partner, because I do not necessarily understand it bound only to the body or the family, but I feel it as a revolutionary social power. As a force that is not demarcated, it is not closed through walls, but it teaches all of us, women and men, how to love. I am talking about anti-powerful motherhood, the one that gives no expectation to get back, which helps the weak to stand on their feet, which is withdrawn when he proudly feels that they no longer need it, that he does not invest in getting back profitable returns, but strengthens and frees those who need it. Motherhood is the practice of love. The woman who feeds the refugees on her headlines and the man who stands next to the passport and picks him up when she stumbles. My speech today, therefore, wants to be political and social, in order to give motherhood the meaning and place I think she deserves. Besides, the notion of motherhood and unselfish love lies in the very core of the political formation of our society. One sees it in the illustrations of Panagia, but it also sees it in the revolutionary images of democracy, where female forms carry the values of freedom and brotherhood, the children of modern history. Today, however, these values are despised, society is turning back towards those who think love belongs to closed borders, beyond which there is only hatred and fear. They are the ones who raise fences that invoke the fraternity only among the likes and justify the marginalization of those who differ. But there is another threat to society. It is loneliness, lack of society, lack of love and ties between members. Involved among these opponents, motherhood becomes a practice either corrupted or deported or locked into limits that are not worthy or often despised. It is the appearance of love in a democracy that is now narrowing. When Domiere illustrated the concept of democracy, he presented it as a naked woman, firm and firm, who in every breast sucks a child, but does not exclude anyone. In other words, she portrayed the state as a mother who has to guarantee everyone life, because only if we guarantee life can we claim beauty. And the food mother is the most appropriate symbol for a democracy that does not leave its citizens, but offers them all the means to maintain their lives and then farewell so that they can go ahead with meeting new goals, more demanding. But today, in conditions of austerity and isolation, these images of politics are weak. Unfortunately, things are far from Domiere's picture. Motherhood is dramatically limited and is persecuted as a concept and mother is persecuted as a person. Motherhood as being persecuted by those who lift walls, assuming that love should belong only to a few and to those who set aside loneliness and social deregulation. Mother as a natural person is persecuted where she is allowed to be only a reprieve of life, where she has no rights and freedoms. But he is also persecuted in our own societies by objectiveizing the female body and imaging love as a product. We said, however, that at the heart of this day there is something more essential, which we can do without examining statistical tables and adding prices and numbers. What we can do is talk about the self-evident wisdom of love, because love is self-evident and wise in itself, as peace is self-evident, as is the democratic power. They are self-evident, because it is the best thing that has been done in our recorded history and in the memories of our culture. It is these self-evident that today we are lacking more than anything, now that we are standing divided and suspiciously against each other. These are all I wanted to say about motherhood as a non-sexual attitude, without a person, simply as an atmosphere of love that guarantees life and society. Happy birthday, then, to all ambassadors and ambassadors of motherhood! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Karasarlidou. Mrs Catherine Ironopoulou - Papakostas from New Democracy now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. In fact, the Greek mother, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, has borne a very large part of the unbearable economic crisis, the consequences of which each Greek household has suffered and, above all, the mother. And of course, on the part of the state and the legislative body, that is to say, it deserves every support so that it can continue to carry on with its duties. And what are these duties, ladies and gentlemen? They are, on the one hand, to shape the citizens of the next generation, to work on people, to shape them in such a way that they can be right citizens, honest citizens and good citizens. Of course, the work that mother does in forming, forming personalities, is an offer to society. So it offers social work very important. That is why I have proposed, for many years now, already since 2009, and I insist on this proposal, that maternity is a social term. In fact, I propose that maternity should be recognised as a social service, which will also qualify for a pension equivalent to the number of children who a woman acquires, equivalent to that of men's military service. Odysseus Elytis has said - and so it is - that “a fourth mother is enough for ten lives, and again something will be left behind that you will be in great danger”. We do not want, ladies and gentlemen, children to call up mother's name at great risk. We want the school yards filled with children's voices that will stir up the mother's name in conditions of well-being, under conditions that will be better than today's conditions. However, since we are legislating here and conducting a policy, you will allow me to take advantage of this minimum of time that I have and say that motherhood - because last night the insurance and tax bill - was voted for by Greek democracy, by the Greek state and how we have to take corrective steps to cure the injuries that the family suffers in the face of mother, when she is unemployed, when she is fired from her work because she is pregnant. There are too many cases - I had repeatedly appealed to the Citizens' Counselor - where carabine redundancies were baptized as voluntary departures, because they dared working women to become pregnant, that is to say, to have a child, and to raise their family or because of harassment at the workplace or because of other causes that are disguised. These, then, should be healed in the day - to - day life. Why should I tell you that if we are talking about insurance - which may have been voted on last night, with a solid majority of fifty-three of the co-government - without new members, that is, without a solution to the country's demographic problem, it will at some point be unsustainable because there will be no subjects, that is, insured. Why am I saying that? Because I have to tell you that we have a dramatic decline in births in our country. The calculations show that the Greek population is falling rapidly, so that they have calculated that in forty years from today, ladies and gentlemen, our population will be reduced by at least one million, while at the same time it will be ageing, as four out of ten will be over sixty years old. If we are talking about a serious strategy, a national strategy on insurance, the first factor to be taken seriously into account for a national policy on the demographic issue facing Europe, but also for our country, is to see what policies we will implement to cure it. The causes, therefore, of the fact that we do not have children from Greek and Greek women are quite simply the fact that the economic crisis, unemployment, economic poverty, uncertainty in the workplace create a sense of insecurity, create fear for the present and the future, so that young people can avoid the creation of the family, let alone the acquisition of children. Because, if a person is truly elementary, he wonders how without work or insecurity he can primarily support himself, then support a family and, of course, much more have a child. The political response is, therefore, 'incentives'. We must motivate both young people in general, but also mothers in particular. Apart from creating new jobs through growth - and I must tell you that we are also one of those who say that the core of our policy needs to be man and the politics and the market and economic growth and all the models of the economy must serve him, otherwise how they are failed policies, which do not serve man as the core of their policy - they need countermeasures, they need incentives so that we can create quality support structures so that the Greek family can be supported. For the Greek family, the Greek household is the core of Greek society. The sum of Greek households is the whole of Greek society. Therefore, I am very evident - and Madam President-in-Office, I would ask that it be transferred to the President of this House, and if we all agree here to do so - in favour of organising an ad hoc debate on this issue, which is not exhausted in six minutes, which our Rules of Procedure provide. You realise that this time is not enough to propose policies for each component according to its positions. So we have to organize this as soon as possible, because these are of interest to Greek women and Greeks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me give you a little of your tolerance. I would like to say to you, however, that some policies, which have brought my own seal - let me put 'I' - were shaped in the previous years by our own government and also by previous governments, unfortunately I see them abandoned today. For example, I shall refer to some. For example, we supported the Greek rural woman, who was completely unreliable with the previous insurance scheme, which we had introduced either directly or indirectly insured, so as to receive an allowance for pregnancy and predation and care from the OGA. That is what I hope it will continue. I give you, for example, a few examples. We also introduced with Law 3491/2006 the National Commission for the Equality of Women and Men as a permanent step in social dialogue. This step, this national dialogue has perpetrated. There isn't. It does not exist in practice. Typically, there is. Harassment at work was also criminalized for the first time. It is forbidden to denounce the relationship between work for reasons of sex, family weight or intrinsicity in sexual activity. Furthermore, a number of other measures were prohibited as a result of pregnancy or maternity. Parental breast-feeding was also institutionalised. That is why there must be a top political leader over them so that they can be implemented. Finally, I would like to say to you - and I am closing down with this, Madam President - that with the third memorandum, L.4336/2015, the age limits for retirement have increased. Which - as you can see - affects beneficiaries, because from six months to seventeen years in some cases may be this change. However, I have proposed it, but other colleagues have also proposed it, and we have to talk about it - no special care for the mothers of minors. Shouldn't there be one? Changes in limits affect them directly, affect the family, affect the Greek society. The new insurance is no longer provided for, ladies and gentlemen, by marriage benefits for young pensioners. Of course, by increasing taxation and social security contributions, the workers' income available is falling further. Finally, we must sit down and see through the committee these issues, organise a debate and make our proposals intergrouply. And come a draft law on this - which deals with these issues - on two pillars: on the one hand if the existing legislation applies sufficiently and protects what the Greek state wants to protect, on the other hand, where there are gaps to cure them in order to improve the lives of Greeks and Greeks in times hard times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. Mrs Eleni Zarulia has the floor from the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u6	And the most unsuspecting begins to realize that in the face of the powerful multinational power centres today, they are nations - states, peoples, cultures. The institution of the family is more than ever, which is no coincidence since it is the foundation stone in the life of the nation and race. The first necessary strong foundations for maintaining and guaranteeing the future existence of a nation are built through the family, through the roles of parents, especially women - mother. Corrosion by the supposedly progressive flow of the role of the two sexes is one of the most effective weapons of these strategic designs, a weapon of dissolving everything. Mothers were the Spartan women who said goodbye to their men in the words “tan or on” before they left for the battles, wanting to highlight their national debt. This shows the courage with which ancient Greek women, as wives or as mothers, faced the prospect of losing their husband or son for the sake of their homeland. Mothers were the Sulliotis, who, beyond the household, took part in war operations, and when circumstances demanded it, without second thought, were thrown into battle. The dance of Zaloggos is an eternal symbol for the woman, who prefers death to dishonesty and misery, the mother of a heroine, who sacrifices herself and her children and salutes sweet life. Mothers were the women of Pindu in the war of the country against the enemy. They gave theirs present on the front line. Their offer of precious, spontaneous and self-indulging. They formed endless whales loaded with ammunition, weapons, food, and carrying wounded. However, nowadays I am very afraid that we are going back to days when societies treated women, and even more women mothers, as things. The very equilibrium and feminist concept may have to worry about whether and whether or not it negatively affects the position of women, whether or not it leads to the collapse of society. Labour and social rights are crushed, mainly by the workers of mothers, wages, maternity benefits are cut daily, thousands of women are taken to unemployment while those who are still working are subjected to exhaustive hours and are in several cases mistreated by employers. Young people and young people are being driven to immigration, frustrated, and the possibility of creating a family is being removed from women, and in a few years' time our Greece will be a country of old age. Nowadays, therefore, women must start from the beginning by claiming equality, equality, work, life under human conditions. Because the recognition of women as an equal member of society ensures it not by the furniture laws, but by the constant struggle at work, at home, in society for home and religion, the timeless values that have shielded their struggles. So, keeping in mind and in our hearts the great social role played by the woman - mother in Greece at all times of her history, let us also stand up, let us continue to fight with courage and boldness for a better tomorrow for the mother. After all, Golden Dawn has proposed that motherhood be subsidized by the money of the parties' state funding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Zaroulia. Mrs Sia Anagnostopoulos, Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that a global day of celebration on any issue can be done lightly, gaining goods of much more importance than in a sense other than where they eventually started these days. One such is the mother's day, which, of course, can be abusively celebrated for trade, but it can return to what was in her founding meaning mother's day. It is good for us here - and it has already been done with previous speakers, not with the latter - to give another content to this, indeed of great symbolic and real value, day after day. Our mother, every mother, is a reality, but also a symbol, which, as the President very nicely said, opens up, teaches us, trains us in emotions. Not in melodramatism, in emotions, in love, in solidarity, and indulgence. This is the great symbol of every mother and all mothers everywhere on earth. I would like to say that Mother's Day began, as the representative of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group said, from America and began to celebrate in the early 20th century. It began with the end of the civil war, when it became a day of peace for all those mothers who had been killed in the war and as a day of celebration for all these women who were associated with the wounded of the American civil war and who were there, no matter what camp these people belonged to. Watch out, a paradox. Anna Jarvis, who was the symbol of Mother's Day celebration, was not a mother. So this symbol is universal. It's the celebration in man, in his most human version, which is why it's already symbolized by the face of the mother. So it is the day of peace, the day of the universality of emotions. That is why the mother of this unconditional love line is chosen, without discrimination, love that a mother can have in real life and symbolically any man cares about his fellowman around him, without any interest in where he comes from, what is and what is not. Many times the mother’s feast, mother herself, is linked to the family’s narrow meaning. So the mother has this reproductive role alone, losing the great value she has in a universal dimension. We can find many examples from modern Greek culture from poetry, music, literature. For us, I will mention the most sloppy example, but the most emblematic that comes to our minds, the great poem from Yiannis Ritsos, melted by Mickey Theodorakis, the mother's lamentation of her killed son, protester smoker. And yet, this lament in the “Epitafion” is not only an expression of pain, of the most human suffering, of the greatest loss to man. The tear of this mother's mother to "Eptafio" becomes the seed to grow a new world, a new world where she will no longer be lamented for murdered children. This lament of "Epitafion" arrives to our days in more real, more earthly, if you like, dimensions, as the president and representative of SYRIZA said, for social injustices, for mothers who cannot feed their children, for mothers who say good-bye to their children, but arrive in the same way, in this "Epitafio" way, to our days and in another version, in the version of the mother of the murdered Bridge by people, fascists, who hated this child. This report has no intention, no intention of joining or of robbing anything. Human pain, human love, love in all its dimensions, policies, social, individual, personal. My mind comes, not only Greek mothers, our mothers, but also those refugee mothers, who the child who carry with them risks being all their property. And with them come to my mind the mothers of ours, who stand up for showing and celebrating every day this caring for the man who is next to us. Mothers don't only celebrate mother's day. That's just a reminder. Mothers are the ones who celebrate the world. A celebration, which is not always a joy. He's got pain, trouble, and sometimes a lamentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you to Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. Mrs Eve Christophilopoulou has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on this global day let me begin to honour it with ancient Greece, but to a whole different tone from a previous speaker, not the Minister. It is true that the first references to the mother's festival are made in ancient Greece, where the mother Earth, the wife of Heaven, are the personalization of nature, which gives birth to the whole world, everyone, and thus unites the whole world. It is no coincidence that maternal worship passes through her daughter, Rea, who goddess Rea, is the one that symbolizes fertility, and she is in a way the goddess of the earth. But now I come to the American activist already mentioned, Anna Jarvis, to show through the completion of what has been heard, just how this world idea was born. You're right, Anna Jarvis had no children, she was a daughter. Her mother, however, three to four years before she started her struggle, in 1865 a mother's or friendship movement was to be able to unite again the families that had been removed, not to be found or mourned, due to the injuries of the civil war and many times the separation of families brought about by the conditions of the civil war in the United States of America. The daughter, Anna Jarvis, who continued with her even more and more intensely. So the message of this movement, of the motherhood movement, was a message of unity, a message of love and, through the meaning of motherhood, at some point the plaques that held were called "Peace and Motherhood", "Peace and Motherhood". It is no accident that a world message was made after 1914, where this celebration was first recognized as a mother's celebration and it is no coincidence that the whole world is celebrating this day. It is therefore important that the Greek Parliament honours the mother today and as I did yesterday and I did so in a completely different climate, where we had the political conflict - democracy we have and had the political conflict yesterday - but we also had some other sad signs of division, and that is why I made the reference, and today I want to reiterate that we need to think about these mothers who lost their children either in civil wars and not in any form of violence. I particularly referred to the mother of Paul Physsa and I will do so today, and I also referred to the mothers of the children who were lost in Marfin. I am sure that as in my own constituency, unfortunately, you have examples of those who are elected to industrial areas and mothers who have lost their children in accidents at work. Our memory and our thoughts go to these mothers. That is what we are honoring today. However, I would also like to turn to the implementation of policy. I think that for those women who are in Parliament today, although we are divided by political differences, differences of opinion on politics, there is a common agenda that is of great interest to mother, apart from the peace agenda, for which I have said and for which we have to do a great deal as a society and as political forces. In addition to peace, then, there are institutions. Mrs Papakosta has referred to many of them. I want to do it, too. I want to talk about this need because this is where we heard about nation. I'm not talking about Ms. Papakosta, to God, but about the other speaker. Here we have to see that it is very important for our country to stimulate demographics, but if we look at European experience, we will see that you do not stimulate demographics by closing down the woman at home to give birth to children, because she does not have children like this. If you see birth statistics in countries that had this famous "father, religion, family" perhaps even non-orthodox and also catholicism, because we have countries such as Spain, Italy and our country, i.e. the countries of the South, women have less birth, work less and cannot really exceed the limit and connect as easily as the women of the northern countries of Europe, where you will see that there the network of childcare and childcare in general is complete and that is where the woman is being helped to have children. So we have a wrong practice and good practice, which we need to build in our country. What's the wrong practice? It has been what the Greek state has been saying recognizing to mother for decades: get out of retirement more easily if you have a minor child. This is a policy that has been overcome. Now we need to build on a very good practice, as were the children's stations and creativity centres. I'm not saying that because my own political body was the one who took the initiative, but that's what it was. However, he was embraced by Greek society and in these structures much was invested by the Local Government. It is very important that you give the new mother, this woman, to a couple who wants to make children know whether she is unemployed and looking for work, whether she is already working and having a career and not allowing her to become pregnant that the existence of this protective and guarding structure, but also education for infants and children exists and is very important for every woman to be able to become a mother. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like your tolerance for one or two minutes. So if we want to combine the support to mother, but also the opportunity that we want as a society, as a country to have many children, our children, Greeks, and children of all our other fellow citizens who are not Greeks, but who live here, we have to complete this network. I also agree with the proposal, which has been heard by Mrs Papakostas, Madam President, and I would also like to address you as President-in-Office here, to have some such speeches, where we will have a little more than six minutes each or everyone who is speaking, not only to see different aspects depending on each other's political ideology and attitudes, but also to discuss more specific policies. There is also the Minister of Education here, and I could say a lot about education, but there is no time. We could discuss how best we can reach agreement and have a minimum consensus on those policies that can unite and support motherhood. So speaking for years, I, too, to all mothers, think that this day deserves to be celebrated not only personally, but also through institutions such as Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House organizes and operates, twenty-six students and three educational attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform you that today's debate is dedicated to Mother's Day, which was yesterday. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in discussing Mother's Day as a Communist Party of Greece, we do not want to mention in general the role and importance of the mother in the family and society with this moral, emotional burden. We want to believe that these are self-evident and acceptable in general. What is of particular importance to us is whether in today's conditions it is protected and recognised not by words, but in practice, what we call the'social role of motherhood'. This is not a question that only concerns the relationship between the sexes. First of all, it is about the responsibility of the state toward the mother and to the family. Yesterday, which was Mother's Day, two laws were passed in the House in the packing of one, for insurance and taxation, that go beyond the limits of suffocation for the people's family, social, insurance rights, what remains, leading the majority of women to a new middle ages. Social security is directly associated with the protection of maternity, with social health and welfare services, with pensions, which become a faint dream, especially for the working mother, by transforming this conquest of the working folk movement into an individual case. What, then, can be done on the occasion of yesterday's day, which is supposed to be dedicated to the mother? Allow me, but what is being said today about the mother, bearing in mind what has evolved yesterday and yesterday's decisions is at least a challenge. What do you have to say to the mothers, who are champions of unemployment? What's the gift? It's the punishment. But isn't that what Mr. Phile, the government's ministerial decision, leaving out of the voluntary full-day programme of municipal schools the children of the unemployed, who are mostly young mothers? The same thing has not been happening for years in baby nurseries, where thousands of children don't pass the threshold of pre-school education as a basic prerequisite for their mental and physical fitness, on the pretext that mother or father is unemployed, so he can take care of them at home? What do you have to say to workers made redundant by the capitalist employer when they announce that they are pregnant or to the thousands of young women who are blackmailed to sign a declaration that they will not give birth as a condition for their recruitment? What do you have to say to the thousands of young mothers who are being blackmailed by employers to give up minimum maternity protection rights, such as reduced working hours? Are social justice measures all of what you say to us, yesterday's decisions? Is it social justice to retire all women working, self-employed rural women at sixty-seven years of age to twenty-years of work? You are coming and finishing what we told you yesterday, the dirty work of the previous governments, which, on the basis of the guidelines of the European Union, abolished the five-year difference in retirement ages between men and women. These five years were the minimum recognition of the particular needs of women due to their role in the reproductive process, its unequal position in the exploitation society. Is it social justice for the new mother to lose the maternity allowance because she lacked a sign? It is invoked by the Government that women live longer, just in order to legitimize the conscience of the people, to increase the retirement age, to work to the deep ages without exceptions. These are the directions of the European Union for active ageing. However, the fact that women live longer does not mean that their health is in good condition too. No research deals with the quality of their health, working conditions, the consequences of irregular working hours, life rubber. No research describes what it means to a woman to be both a worker and a mother and a householder and a nurse for old parents. By clicking on the existing difficulty of mothers combining work with family care, individual households, the European Union, governments, employers and workers, we broadly - and without the reaction required - confess to women flexible working relationships, part-time work. As much as the European Union is trying, the governments, with great words to hide racial and class discrimination, are stubborn. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me too, Madam President, a little more. Women, based on 2015 figures, had 15% lower wages than men and 35% lower pensions. For what? Because they work at a higher rate as unskilled, because they work parttime, which means part-time, part-time, that is, part-time life, but also because they are forced to stop work for longer periods during their working life, having the sole responsibility and care of children and the elderly. Based on the World Bank data in January 2016, 76% of part-time workers in the euro area are women. Today the European Union's decisions are aimed at hitting the labour rights of men and women. This time they call for men to participate more in the care of children and households. Of course, but why? It's the symphony leaf to get through the flexibility in work and working men. The whole debate is taking place these days on the so-called 'parental leave', paternity leave. More generally, women's work, the relationship between women and motherhood and family in general, is used to strike employment relationships, wages, wages, wages and so to increase the level of exploitation for the working class as a whole, for women and men. What does the current government say? Women's unemployment rates are very high and we need to find ways of strengthening women's employment. Watch out, it says employment, not work with full rights. In this direction, the skills of women in poorly paid and insecure jobs can be exploited, in subordinated local social care services, various NGOs and social cooperatives, i.e. with a baron, two birds. Keeping well the anti-Flemish spoon of previous Governments and today is moving much faster in the shrinking of social services by shifting the burden on the working people's income with increased payments for education and health. In our country it is estimated that more than two hundred and fifty thousand couples have difficulty in pregnancy and need medical help. Worldwide, this figure, according to estimates by the World Health Organization, reaches fifty to eighty million pairs. While, therefore, the development of science and technology can give a solution, enters the service of profits, trade and enhancement of private business activity in health. For a natural cycle the financial contribution of the couple is about EUR 1,500 for an egg, in a simple in vitro with multiple ova is EUR 2,800, for microfertilisation is EUR 3,100 and with additional costs of freezing up to EUR 550. The Committees for the Control and Approval of Pharmaceutical Support and Treatment, based on the instructions of the Ministry of Health for the Child, approve two in vitro efforts with drug coverage up to 25% of the partner's participation. However, the obstacles, this bureaucracy, rejection and stifling of the audit committees create for couples that the feeling of deadlock, resignation and pessimism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Synthraki, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Madam President. The issue of assisted reproduction units in public hospitals, such as "Aretaire", "Attica", "Alexandra", "Elena", University Hospital of Crete, Larissa, Ioannina, Alexandroupolis and Thessaloniki, is not to cause costs to the state budget and, on the other hand, the sixty-seven units of assisted reproduction are reinforced in the private sector. So, for the capitalist state and employers, maternity is a cost. For the JRC, to conclude, on such a day it honors mothers from the working and popular families, it honors the mother - struggling, so that her children may grow up in a great hug of competitors. The JRC's position on motherhood is based on the perception that motherhood is not solely a single case for the woman and the new couple. Ladies and gentlemen, too much has been said about the mother of the Bridge. Of course I would also add all those mothers who lose their children in all these imperialist wars, which have flooded our minds, our minds, our consciences, in Iraq, in Syria, in Afghanistan, in Libya, in Yugoslavia, which are leading imperialists in land, either Americans or Europeans, and the thousands of mothers who are caught here in Greece as a result of these imperialist interventions. On the basis of modern needs, therefore, we as a Communist Party, Madam President, are claiming free of charge all preventive and diagnostic tests, without conditions and conditions, free of charge all prenatal tests, gynaecological doctors, mother and child centers, family planning centres, permanent fixed work, with rights for all workers, pregnancy permits, childbirth, abortion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Synciergis, I think, although a man, you have too much to say. But thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u16	To close the sentence, the members of the single parent families only work morning shifts until the children reach the age of ten, to return the childbirth allowance. It is important to return the childbirth benefit and not just on the basis of yesterday's amendment. It is good that yesterday's amendment, which says that the money requested by the Ministry should be repaid, but the childbirth allowance must be restored, that the legislation on the protection of the working mother should be applied. For all this, of course, women, mother - woman herself, being in battle, fighting together with the man for a better society, which this society can ensure for her the real parity, the real place that she deserves in society, and that is socialist society. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u17	But it's an exaggeration! Mrs Marcos, MP from Thessaloniki, has the floor from Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, what we need to ask today is how we really can honour the mother, what each of us represents, the unselfishness of her love, certainly not with long speeches, but by discussing and raising some of the practical things and problems that each mother is dealing with today. For example, with regard to the apparent limitation or expansion, as the Minister for Education of the full-day school, who comes to overthrow the planning of the working mother and the mother-teacher, for the continuously reduced funding for children's facilities and facilities of hospitality and creative employment, which have helped so many mothers in time to be able to continue their work or to look for work, for the issue of safe transfer of pupils to their schools, especially in the most remote areas, with governments discovering the problem every September, as is the case with the gaps of teachers. To discuss the mothers of children with disabilities, for which institutions and structures, such as parallel school support, municipal Creative Employment Centres and sheltered living roofs are vital. However, all the above are having problems of sub-financing and staff shortages. To talk about the high cost of the tests that a woman should do during pregnancy, who is only partially covered by the EEAS, but also about the requirement that she should several times go to two and three doctors to prescribe the necessary tests due to the limitations. We are talking about Mother's Day, when in twenty-three prefectures in Greece there are no pediatricians in PEDY and EOPY. Really, can we ask a mother insured, working, going to and set up in line, or be invited to pay a visit of EUR 10 and 20 to write medicinal products to her child? We are celebrating today and we honor Mother's Day, and yet we have a tax system that punishes families with children, which does not favour the mother who takes up child rearing. You only yesterday reduced the tax rebate for families with two children by 100 euros and by 150 euros for families with one child. There should be a serious and discreet tax relief for families with children and not the 50 euros you recognise them in relation to single and family without children. Things are just as difficult for mothers in the workplace. EUROSTAT's figures are coming to confirm what we already know from experience, that the more children make a woman, the more precarious her work situation becomes. We know that the young woman without children is unwanted as a worker, because she may at any time want to become a mother. We know that in the private sector few mothers can get their license out of trouble by the employer. Moreover, what mother now has the luxury of renouncing her salary for the low maternity leave, when her family's financial needs are increasing? Why not give tax incentives to enterprises that actively support mothers workers in order to cultivate the state of such an entrepreneurial culture? Incomplete protection of pregnancy and maternity is directly linked to the phenomenon of economic infertility. It is no coincidence that according to the report on living conditions of ELSTAT, birth fall from 2008 to 2014 is dramatic. Of the hundred eighteen thousand we went to the ninety-two thousand. We must discuss these issues today and propose solutions and measures. To support the state in practice, not in distortive ways - such as early retirement to minor mothers, who, in the meantime, have grown adults - but in ways that will allow women to stay longer at work or to find work that will enable them to be developed as individuals and not only as mothers. We must support the rural mother, the mother entrepreneur, the worker, the self-employed and the unemployed. This must be our issue today, but also the study, when we legislate, if we really want this celebration to make sense and to touch the lives of mothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Marcus. Mr. Kammenos, MEP, 2, Piraeus of the Independent Greeks. He's the second man party representative. We hope that time will be enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam and Minister, this is an important day. It's our deep responsibility to deal with Mother's Day. I have personally lost my mother for five years. Anyone who has lost his mother or has known who has lost her, know what the bond and the pain of losing a child for his mother means. But we also need to think at some point about what the role of mother is and what the mother has been through, and especially the Greek mother, since we are in the Greek Parliament at the depths of the years. The Greek mother was and is always the pillar of the family, the bonding, is the pillow and the disembodiment of all family members. On the Greek mother's side, the Greek state and the mother generally rely on all the states. This mother has been through too much in Greece. There was a mother in a time of peace that - if you want - everything was fine, there was money and jobs, there was growth, there was a peace and everything was well fit. There the mother's problems were to keep the ties, the children close to the family and of course not to have the misfortune to lose a child, to lose a member or to get hurt by a child, to see the blood, as we say. Because all as parents when we see our child’s blood from an accident at home or from a tooth, we are very painful and let alone the mother. Mother went to another role in the depths of Greek history. I will not go into the Sparta, but I shall refer to the mother of national resistance, who resisted and gave her children and her husband to the altar of freedom. I will refer to the mother in the First and Second World War who helped, fed, sailed, struggled, struggled, climbed the mountain, in Pindo and fought the enemy, the conqueror. I shall also speak of the mother, who unfortunately lost her child from an accident, let alone for the mother who has lost her child from a murderous act or terrorist action, such as 17 November or a terrorist action, such as the Islamics we have seen in recent years unfortunately. Mother has a special force. He's learned to manage this pain. He's got a power that doesn't explain. Some say she's supernatural. She has learned to forgive, listen, live in pain and joy and in some magical way not to exterior her feelings for the good of others. From young children, they were chasing us with phrases of the press: “Dave you read? You didn't read? How did you write? Did you eat? What did you eat? Are you dressed or not dressed? Are you cold? Take your jacket together." All that we've been through with our mothers is showing all their interest and the role of mother who has an intact relationship with children. It is so fundamental and essential that its role in the family is that we all need to say little, to do more, to think about mothers and, let alone, to legislate in our minds, always having the role of mother, the role of this entity within the family for the future of the nation, Greece, our family and our children. I've heard speeches about ingenuity. Yes, Greece has a problem. However, I have the impression that the mother in the last six years in the crisis has kept the ties of the Greek family intact. It was the one that, if you wish, has passed to the indulgence of three, four or all family unemployed, in difficult conditions of poverty, with no income, with children and husband not having a job, she herself should have no job and should keep the balance within the family and for children with the consequences of melancholy, violence - we should say it all - of alcoholism, of drugs, of which many have been 'done' because of the situation as a follower of the crisis. He showed great strength in the family being coherent. This mother should help her, always mention her and never forget her. Mother and wife have a certain role. In one and a half minutes that I still have to talk about, we must also talk about the mother who is alone or about the minor mother, a mother who has had a child under the age of sixteen or seventeen, which is happening in many societies, unfortunately - thankfully in ours not so much. The state must be close to the minor mother. Her family and we, as a state, must protect her and have such structures that we can be close to the life of the mother who brings a child into the world at an early age and possibly or obviously to a single parent family and her relationship with the child. We end up having structures for children who unfortunately many mothers leave them because they are unable to raise them. There are institutions full of children. The state is helping this. I think, however, that it would be better for the state to help the family stay together than to separate the mother from her child. We are a fairly conservative society, with principles and values. We have grown and tortured too much since the time of our grandparents and grandparents since ancient history with wars and conquerors. We have resisted many enemies. Many of them wanted to congratulate both our national sovereignty and our family and our status as Greeks. We've lost too many children. Our mothers lost and sacrificed many children in the wars. We'll never forget the Cypriot fighter's mother. We have a thousand six hundred missing persons. There are mothers who haven't found their children yet. We should always be close to them. You will forgive me, but I will say that one of the coherent ties to the family, beyond our traditions and our mother's DNA, is our religion. And I believe that Virgin Mary is the mother of all of us and we should remember her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. The last speaker is Ms Theodora Megalonikou, MP for the Central Association. You have the floor, Mrs. Big Housekeeper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr. Kammenos. The day before yesterday, you didn't come to the insurance debate, and you made me confused, because it was your turn to talk. Today you came to speak to the Independent Greeks! Because you hadn't come the other day, they suddenly called my name to speak, and I, in the confusion, got to the president. But the day before yesterday, none of the Independent Greeks were found to speak! Today you're lamentable! Now you found out about the mothers who don't have to feed their children! Yesterday from the Independent Greeks, there was no speaker. Only Mr. Papachristopoulos and the President have spoken to you. There was no speaker yesterday about insurance - tax from your resignation! You were all gone. Very well. That's why I was on the Bureau! Yes, sir! Now you're so sad! Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u23	Yes, excuse me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u24	Yes, please! Now you remember mothers! Bravo! But you said what you had to say today. Very well. Today, then, we celebrate mother’s day. That's why I won't talk to you as a congressman, but as a mother and a grandmother. In modern times, the woman has multiple roles. She's a hard worker, a wife and a partner. However, the most important role of all is the role of mother and then, the role of grandma. In fact, grandma’s role today is more important, as she is twice a mother. There is no more beautiful feeling - and I know - than seeing your children take their first steps, grow up, study, progress and make their own family. Unfortunately, today's time you see them studying, but you see them and they're uncomfortable. Unfortunately, they cannot make their own family, because with the unemployment that exists, who can make his own family? They're just living together, but they don't have a family, because they don't have the resources to have kids. Of course, there is no more unselfish love than mother’s love to her children and grandma’s grandchildren. But in the difficult times we live, I will make a special reference to the fact that the mother is hard to have for her children, namely food, shelter and clothing. Unfortunately, in Greece of 2016, there are many mothers who, as much as they try, cannot guarantee these elementary things for their children every day. There are many mothers who can't give half a euro to their child to eat something at school. And there are mothers who, with heart pain, leave their children temporarily in institutions, because they have neither a home nor a food. This mother who sacrifices all, even herself, must celebrate today and above all we must help her every day. In fact, it is such that the state is indifferent to the needs of modern mother and family, which local government has been forced - and, above all, the municipalities, whom I congratulate - to take up their support. The municipalities are now directed by the mother, who faces financial difficulties, to buy milk, diapers, swings, strollers, cloths and the kinds of children, because otherwise she would have them naked and milkless. Go to the Municipality of Peristeri and see them. That's why we have to fight to change them. Because of my participation in the Standing Committee on Social Affairs and as the Head of the Union of Centres in the field of social affairs, I know that we have found a 'caramella' that we are under economic collapse and have left the family on a second fate. So the mother has been left at God’s mercy! On the contrary, we should all, for example, have the support of motherhood and the benefits that mothers receive in the Scandinavian countries. They're not interested in us, they're north! [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] I'm sorry, just a minute, Mr. President. We don't have such standards, we don't care. Instead, no action has been taken in our country, on the pretext of having an economic crisis. So far we're just looking at numbers, people aren't looking at them at all. I would also like to refer to Grandma's difficult role. Back in the day, it was Grandma who kept her grandchildren, because both parents worked. She made them a little bite and kept her grandchildren, because they were working and she didn't do anything else. Now she's holding them, because everyone's unemployed, and with her pension she nourishes them. Then poor grandma gave them her allowance, waited for Christmas to take her gifts, well, Grandma was the good one, and they took them gifts unnecessarily. Now with her pension she feeds all the family, who's unemployed and is her support. But yesterday, with the insurance and the tax that we voted on - I'm sorry you voted for, we did not vote for it - Grandma's pension goes too! First, the parents worked, gave Grandma her pocket money. Now that you've voted for the nice insurance and tax, you're gonna cut her pension, so for the unemployed parents or pensioners, no one will eat, no one's grandma or the parents. We're done with this. You give a simple help, everyone's hungry. Of course, no self-evident things will happen. The full-day school is over, because we'll have conditions for who goes to the full-day school. Now, if we catch the three-twelves and multi-twelves, you're completely bored with the benefits. Another big problem, that of birth. We do not support the threeteen families or the tens of mothers who give a huge fight every day. We've become an old-fashioned state. Mothers who are three to four children, these children are a luxury, must be taxed. Did you have kids? You're rich, you'll be taxed. Let us now talk about single or divorced mothers who fight and if they do not receive support from the father of their children, they do not have the state. Don't forget now, in the holy days, a mother and her child, who had occasionally worked, died hug to her child. I cried that mother, who died with her little boy, twenty-seven years old, her child four years old. I really cried. These are only worthy of congratulations from all mothers. I, as a parliamentarian, and especially as a woman and a mother, fight for these women. All Greek society is now in emergency. Be sure that within the Greek Parliament there is a Member who is a mother - and she is proud - of three children, four grandsons. Be sure that within the Greek Parliament there is a woman like you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u25	Thank you and all the representatives of the parties for their presence, for their speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the honorary event was completed on the occasion of the celebration of Mother's Day. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u26	Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I will read a statement from the Bureau of the Greek Parliament: "At yesterday's plenary session of the Greek Parliament and, in particular, on the second day of the debate of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity entitled "The Single Social Security System - Reformation of an insurance- pension system - Income tax arrangements and gambling arrangements", following the behaviour of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos and his continued refusal, with the coverage of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, to leave the House, the meeting was suspended temporarily. By decision of the Bureau of Parliament, which was given by Z' Vice-President of Parliament, George Lambroulis was imposed on the above-mentioned Member, pursuant to Rules 77 and 81 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament (Part-Poland Parliament), his removal and his temporary blockade. Under Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure, temporary exclusion may be extended for 15 days on a proposal from the President and a decision from the Plenary Assembly. The Bureau of Parliament considers the penalty imposed as a warning, so that such conduct will not be repeated in the future." Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos asks for a short-day absence abroad from 12 to 17 May 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u27	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The third time question under number 834/26-2016 first cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos will be discussed with the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the delay of a visa application in Russia. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis. Mr. Kammenos has the floor. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, it is a well-known issue, which has been shaken over the last fifteen days, and you have answered a question, I think, by Mr Kegeroglu. However, because my question was almost twenty-five days old, we must also discuss it now, because the tourist season is coming, now we are approaching the second 10 days of May. So, according to reports, there is a long waiting time for the deposit and approval of visa documents, which will allow Russians who wish to visit our country, both for Easter and summer days. The queues formed and the waiting time is so long that it discourages applicants, who either decide to abandon the visa attempt by choosing a place with less suffering or often do not have time to take off the visa by canceling their journeys. Subservation seems to have already cost several cancellations for the Easter period, and if no solution is found soon, the problem will continue in the summer as long as ten thousand applications have already been accumulated for Easter holidays only. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The failure to resolve this serious problem will cause too many problems in the industry, which manages not only to survive but also to rise to a period of deep recession for our country. In view of the above, you ask, Mr. Minister: Why, while the subscribing of our Consulate to Turkey and the increase in visa applications were known, were no appropriate measures taken to support the staff? What is usually the maximum waiting time for an application to be examined and for a visa to be granted? How many applications have they accumulated? Have there been trip cancellations for Easter due to the delay in examining visa applications? And finally, what measures do you intend to take to solve the problem without costing the tourism sector and therefore the state funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u30	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, thank you for giving me a second chance. We have also answered questions in writing, but with the timely question this is always the best thing to do. First of all, I would like to say that no cancellation has been made because of a late issuing of a visa. Twenty visas were not issued on time, but this was because the supporting documents were incomplete and not under the responsibility of the Greek consular authorities, either because the biometric data was not accurate or because the calibrations with the Russian authorities were not made in time. I would therefore also like to tell you to those who are listening to us now and later that a noise has indeed been caused, it has been caused, in some Russian mass media and in some smaller Greek range. This noise at its largest place is impatient. The tails you say, for example, are not tails. Once, one day in one of the two major application collection centres in Moscow, the private provider serving the consulate, was observed tail, because for that day the appointments were abolished and people went and gathered and waited in turn. Immediately, the directive has been changed, which in some way has been adopted arbitrarily and has not been observed since. This is as far as the present situation is concerned. As far as the measures taken and the history is concerned, and what we need to focus on here, because that is where we need to concentrate, I would like to tell you that at the moment there are twenty-seven total data collection stations in Russia, together with fifteen small stations, established in other companies, mainly banks, and several mobile units, which can collect the documents from prosperous Russians, who want to come to Greece and do not want to hand over their own documents. Last year, the stations were twenty. This year is by far more. This year we did have the difficulty of a new visa system, which required increased technical readiness and much more staff, because it is a heavy process with biometrics. There was no special preparation. We've known that since the beginning of 2014. Greece had requested and been extended not to apply the VIS system to visas. It started to apply to Greece last September. We, when we arrived at the Ministry, informed this waiting, this loose end on December 14th. In the next four months, we did what had not been done in the past two years. In short, I tell you that at the moment, about thirty-five people are working at the consulate, as against eight that we received, and by the end of May, it will be from ninety-five to a hundred employees, depending on capacity, because we have expanded on one floor, we have increased the stations. They were less than thirty, they are fifty-four and will be seventy-four at the end of the month. Our aim is this: at the moment the Schengen Code stipulates that within 10 days the State must issue the visa or give a justified rejection, explained. At the moment Saint Petersburg and Novoroskisk give visas in forty-eight hours. Moscow, because it has a huge burden, gives it about six to seven days. Our aim is to reach the pace of the two other smaller consulates. I have other details, but because I've been far beyond my time, I can explain them to you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. It is encouraging the information you have given us. I hope that our Ministry, as long as the Ministry of Tourism, in coordination with the relevant consulates and, of course, with your responsibility and supervision, will carry out this very difficult task. The publications of both the foreign press and the Greek press are usually jeopardized. Sometimes, however, they may also be at risk for good, namely to be and be vigilant, because Russia's market is one of the most important, if not the most important, for Greece in terms of tourism in terms of incoming tourism, in relation to per capita consumption and spending, which we say, of every tourist on the Greek economy and the entry into exchange and development of the country, as foreseen. I would like you to tell us, since you have answered us for the human potential, which is a key factor, whether and whether the software and tools we have sufficient to carry out this task - because a piece is the man and a piece is the machine - if the software together with man can carry out the great demand. The figures we see - and I have done some small analyses as my knowledge allows me to finance - are six thousand, seven thousand, ten thousand a day. I see in relation to per capita income and historical data. How many could we do accommodate, serve the day? If they reach five, six, seven, ten thousand a day, can our people be technically sufficient and our systems cope with this burden? If not, we will have to organise the anticipations of tourism much better - and at the Ministry of Tourism with Mrs Kouturas both in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - so that we can predict the negative impact. Because you know a bad client on the market has a multiplier of eight to ten. It says the bad news and it is transmitted to ten whether it is for tourist service or for any other service or product. So we must protect tourism that is our main industry and not discredit Greece. We need to be careful because we still have time to do it. And thank you very much for your reply. I'm also going to file a complaint with you that came to me. I will not go into it for good reasons. I'll testify to her for the Minutes. If you have goodness, take a look at such a procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to say that in relation to cancellations and concern, the facts and those which transmit valid sources lead us to a different picture. According to a telegram by the Athenian Agency two days ago, what is seen in both Dodecanese and Crete is an increase in tourist current from Russia. The first measurements bring it up to at least 4% or more. So we haven't had any damage to tourism in the past few years. The second is that, contrary to the noise caused by a portion of Russian media, we have the statements by the Russian Tourism Agents' Union with the most official representative, the Vice-President of Dmitri Gori, that this year Greece will be in the three most popular destinations for Russian tourists, perhaps the first - at least proportionally - and sees up to 40% of the demand in April. In his findings and assurances to the Russian customers of his own operations, he is not praised for the cooperation that the Hellenic Consulate General of Moscow makes, despite the great pressure and the new situation he is facing. I would also like to inform you that tomorrow in Lagonissi there is a large concentration of about a hundred tour operators, tourist agencies from Russia and officials from the Russian tourism industry to whom we will present - and I - the work that is being done and what opportunities there are. From that point on, I would like to tell you that for the life-threatening potential you say and the Russians - they will say it better, I do not - have found that even on the days of the Great Sabbath and Easter, even on today, May 9, the day of anti-fascist victory - and in Russia it is a national holiday - the Greek officials were working at the Consulate and did a job. As far as software and technical support are concerned, there have been shortcomings, despite the assurances we had that everything will work perfectly, but already last week for four days, the Schengen bureau and the manager of my political office were in the Moscow Consulate from 8 a.m. until 11 a.m. every day with autopsies, gathering all the material from the working routine and with valuable conclusions on what needs to be done and starting from today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-seven students and students and three teachers from the 1st High School of Thessaloniki. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Just finished a special session on Mother’s Day, which you had the opportunity to attend. We are now at the stage when Members are asking the Ministers questions. Before Mr Balafas answered, on behalf of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, to say that we are not discussing, as a result of the inquiries of the Member, the first under number 822/254/2016, the first question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, New Democracy, Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, regarding the exclusion of the railway network of the country. In addition, they are not discussed because of the impediment of the competent ministers and will be redefined for discussion the following topical questions: Due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, because of the workload, will not answer the second question under number 822-26-4-2016, the first question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanouil Synthakis, to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food and Finance, concerning measures to compensate farmers and the restoration of crops and infrastructure from the fire caused on 21-4-2016 in the areas of East and Myrtos of the Municipality of Ierapetra. Furthermore, the same Minister will not respond to the second question by number 830/26-2016, with regard to the irregular reductions in aid, the necessary extension of the deadline for the submission of the 2016 Single Aid Application and the right to submit objections to final rights. It is not debated because of the impediment of the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr. Georgios Stathakis, who will be outside Athens: The first under number 823/254-2016 topical question of the second-round question of the Athens Parliament, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on “delay in implementing development reforms – “Lista Stathaki””. Also, the seventh question under number 811/19-4-2016, on the financing of the 2007-2013 NSRP projects, 'at risk', is a topical question to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism. Also, the eighth under number 798/18-4-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning non-performing loans. Also, due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr Christos Spirtzis, for the workload, the first question is not discussed under number 37844/267/8-32016; the question and application for the submission of documents by MP II of Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the government's delay in the promotion of actions and the development of broadband, depriving 1.5% of GDP. Furthermore, the fourth question under number 810/19-4-2016 is not discussed in the context of a topical question by the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the provisions of the draft law on the recruitment of assistant teachers, addressed to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on account of the unsuccessful obligations. Finally, it is not discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotou abroad, or the fifth under number 791/18-4-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Asylum PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the excessive debits of the Banks, which the Ministry of Finance tolerates. There is also no discussion of the sixth question under number 806/19-4-2016. A topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance regarding the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO SA). The third question under number 800/19-4-2016 will be discussed in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on complaints about the use of the services of the Municipality of Saronicos, on the electoral needs of the president of the Local Organisation of New Democracy. The Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Ioannis Balafas, will answer. Mr. Wormhole, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the residents of the Municipality of Saronicos, as they publish them local media and in particular the electronic website called "Attikos Observer". Therefore, they denounce that phone calls were received from numbers 22910-38795 and 22910-38809, belonging to the Municipal Community of Palaias Fotia of the Municipality of Saronicos and from whom they campaigned for the candidacy of a candidate from the Local Organisation of New Democracy, for the elections held on April 3, 2016. According to this report, the public already declares that they have been asked out of court to be given a detailed statement of the phone calls made by the specific numbers of the Old Foca Community store. In other words, they denounce that this candidate, who is also the Vice Mayor of the Old Foyas Municipal Community, uses services, not for the benefit of the residents, but for the benefit of the party mechanism of the New Democracy. It should be noted that, in these complaints, it is added that the Mayor of Saronicos was one of the first to use his office for party benefit, signing the candidacy of the current Head of New Democracy, Mitsotakis. I should like to point out that in this post, the confirmation of the complaint by Fanis Koronios, a resident of Kalivia, claiming that similar phone calls from these numbers were received by tens of the citizens of Lagonisios, who are registered in the New Democracy registers. Let me note that Lagonisi belongs to the municipality of Kalivion and not Palae Fotias. So, on the basis of the above, you ask whether this publication is correct. What action does the Ministry intend to take to restore the legality and orderly functioning of the municipality? Also, because the credibility of the Municipality of Saronicos to the citizens has been lost, is the Ministry's intentions for telephones at least to be charged and paid to the person responsible and not to the municipal fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, there has been a slight postponement in our answer to your question, and the reason is that the necessary steps have not been completed from the point of view of the Decentralised Attica Command until today. I shall refer to this report and then to it. But there will be an answer, first of all, to what interests you refer to in your question, reserved for further information and further information when the investigation by the Decentralised Administration is completed. Allow me to say, Mr President, first of all, because it is a general position, unfortunately, that the parties - and they have a name, New Democracy and the PASOK - who have ruled the country - have for many years been faced with the state and public administration as a feud, as their property, as a spoil for their own party or personal services, at the level of the representatives of these parties, who are at stake. These, unfortunately, are things known, or rather well-known, but a report is always useful. With regard to your timely question, Mr Colleague, this timely question raises a question of this category. I just referred to it before. But there are institutions, there are specific competences, and in this respect I must say that the competence to monitor the issues of this category, naturally within the context of the autonomy of the Local Government bodies, belongs to the Decentralised Administration of Attica. Of course, in the period since your timely question has been submitted, we have addressed the Decentralised Administration of Attica. In fact, we have been asked for an immediate examination of what is stated in your current question. The Decentralised Administration is already carrying out the relevant actions. It'll end up. We cannot know exactly where it will end, but it will probably also result in action in the context of its supervision of local government bodies and will give us its report, which will enable us to have a more comprehensive, clearer picture of this case. On the basis of this picture and the elements of the Decentralised Administration of Attica, the further actions of the Ministry will be identified, whether there are disciplinary disciplinary responsibilities or anything else and, of course, the honourable Member and the National Delegation will also be informed of all of this. To conclude, I stress that all these actions are next and self-evident that they are carried out within the framework of the provisions of the Code of Municipalities and the Code of Conduct and of Law 3852/2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it seems that the parties that, when they were in power, used the state as a spoil when they are not in the government go along with what they have, in this case with the Local Government and here, in our case, with the Municipality of Saronicos and more especially with the municipality of Pala Fakeas. Minister, the municipalities are sponsored by the state, using money from the common corps, money that affects their citizens, but also all Greeks. So, I think if such a complaint is correct, if what we are talking about has really happened, we are dealing with an illegality. I think it is something that is not politically moral and is opposed to the common sense. Examinations give all the parties and parties that are in the government and the parties that oppose and hope to be found in the government at some point. If, however, they want to come back to deal with the state as they now face the Local Government, where they can, where they can, as in this particular case in the Municipality of Saronics, this is something that will be placed in the Greek people's crisis. Thank you very much for the clarifications. I think that the competent decentralised administration will give us concrete information and explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u42	Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u43	Just for a minute, Madam President. I would like to stress something. Maybe it's a repetition, maybe it's not necessary, but I'll do it. With no underestimation and with particular attention we are dealing with this timely question, but always within the framework of our existing provisions and competences, as well as with the powers of the other institutions. It is precisely because of this interest and the importance of the fact that you raise in your timely question, that we have addressed the competent decentralised administration to have a full picture, in order to have its opinion, to have its actions in order to go further. On the occasion of my time margins, I would like to stress, by referring to the general issue you are addressing, the value of the newly adopted law by the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr.4369/2016, on public administration, which goes ahead, lays down provisions and lays down the framework and conditions for the collection of the public administration of the state apparatus. It is an important step so that we gradually move on to the removal of pathogens that have been inherited from the past. With regard to local government, for which there is particular reference to this law, Law No.4369/2016, I would like to say that, due to the specificities of local government, there is a specific definition of the provisions of Law No.4369/2016 for the area of local government. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been distributed the Minutes of Saturday, February 20, 2016 and Tuesday 23, 2016, and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u45	The Minutes of Saturday 20 February 2016 and Tuesday 23 February 2016 were therefore ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-09-S1-commons.u46	With the consent of the House at 20.06. the sitting is closed for Wednesday, 11 May 2016 at 12.00 p.m., on request of the House for the waiver of immunity, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
