ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 28-1-2016, the minutes of the FT's meeting of Thursday, 28 January 2016, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: “Consolidation of issues of transfer of soldiers, care of staff and other provisions”.]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 concerning the taking up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II), Articles 2 and 8 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directives 2003/71/EC and 2009/138/EC and Regulations (EC) No 178/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the principle of non-discrimination in the field of social security to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community’. Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009, (EU) No 1060/2009, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 25-1-2016 to discuss the draft law at a meeting. I therefore propose that the draft law be debated in a uniform manner. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, thirty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Aspropyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] For today's meeting by the parties, the following parliamentary representatives were appointed: From SYRIZA Mr. Mantas, from New Democracy Mr. Dendias, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Kassidiaris, from the Democratic Asylum PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Loverdos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos, from Potami Mr. Danellis, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Papachristopoulos and from the Union of Centrons Mr. Karras. Also, for today's meeting, the following rapporteurs were appointed by the parties: From SYRIZA Mr.Theocons, from New Democracy Mrs.Asmakopoulou, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Karakostas, from the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Vardalis, from Potami Mr. Theocharis, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Kammenos and from the Association of Centrons Mr. Georgiadis. The Minister for Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor. How long will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u2	Fifteen minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u3	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while I do not usually think that the best practice is for the Minister to speak first, I asked today to speak first. Generally speaking, I think it is better for the rapporteurs to speak first so that the Minister can answer questions and questions raised. So today I asked to speak first, because we have to discuss this directive, which we have incorporated many changes, on the basis of the proposals that we have had from the workers' or insurance companies themselves. My speech is therefore essentially divided into two: those which we have adopted and the reasons why we have done so and those which we have not adopted and the reasons why we have done so. As you know the basic, the torso is Solvency II. It is a European directive that regulates and harmonises the European insurance market. It consists of three pillars, but basically it concerns capital, which the European insurance companies must have, in order to reduce their risk of bankruptcy. It sets out specific capital requirements, corresponding to the estimated risk, rules for the management of companies and risk assessment and a framework and transparency rules, reducing the probability of insolvency of companies. As I understand that most of them agree, I will only say because I believe this directive is important. However, I would also like to respond to the comments made by the JRC, which it considers not to be accidental, this directive is now being made when we are discussing the other insurance. As far as I am concerned, ladies and gentlemen, this has not been haunted anywhere. This is something that only concerns insurance companies and nowhere does it promote to expand the piece of pie, which is from the private and to reduce the part that is from the public. So the only question we have before us is whether it really does help the solvency of these companies or not. And one suggestion you made, you will see later that we have accepted it. The other thing we agreed with both Mr Voridis and all Parliament's neoliberal wing in the committee is that we do not know what the top ten successes of neoliberalism are. But we agreed that the market in insurance companies is not in them. Mr Vorides may think within the top ten that there is a great increase in inequality in all the neoliberal countries, I may think that the major financial crisis was after twenty, thirty years of liberalisation on the financial markets, but we agreed that the insurance market needs very much regulation, because it was one of the black spots in the economy after 1980. While from World War II to 1990, the failures of insurance companies have been minimal, since the mid - 1980s, and then there has been an explosion in the failures of insurance companies. From 1988 to 1994, just after the Reagan Presidency followed by Bush, only in the United States had forty two life insurance companies that collapsed. In the early 1990s, the crisis hit Canadian companies, companies in Australia, following the deregulation of the financial sector there. In the mid-1990s, Japanese and Korean companies follow because of the 'big bang financial deregulation', i.e. the liberalisation of the financial sector there. A total of seventeen companies go bankrupt there one after the other. In 2000, it closes a large insurance company in the United Kingdom. Eight hundred thousand insured people have a problem and the state promises £1.2 billion in compensation. From 2000 to 2004, 15 companies go bankrupt in the European Union. Success story, you don't say it! After the 2008 crisis, AIG needs bail out of the US government. They close companies in the Netherlands and Belgium and obviously also in Greece with the case of ‘SPA’ and ‘Commercial Value’. The basic details will be explained by the rapporteurs. I would like to tell you, firstly, what has changed from the discussions in the committees and the opinions of the bodies before I tell you what we have not changed. The first thing we have done is to remove the first two paragraphs of Article 166, namely the regulatory framework, if public health insurance is allowed to be replaced by private health insurance. This is not allowed in Greece. So it was removed. That was what I told you that it created the suspicion that we were trying to favour private insurance in a way that was not our purpose. Secondly, we have changed Article 224 and 229, ensuring that workers fulfil their obligations in the event of a suspension of payments, but also working contracts in the event of the designation of an insurance manager. Thirdly, we have changed Articles 240 and 241 concerning the preferential classification of claims in the event of liquidation. Workers are now given priority over the whole of the assets and not only in a register, as it was, meeting a consistent demand from the workers. Fourthly, we have made the necessary clarification in Article 248(7) in order to make it clear that there is no restriction on workers' compensation. Fifthly, we accepted the subsidiary's amendment to Article 248(10), so that there is no contradiction about the disposal of the assets in insurance. Sixth, with the change in Article 278, we have prolonged the suspension of executions against the subsidiary capital of cars in order to facilitate the planning of its payments to the insured. Seventhly, we changed Article 228 so that Article 479 of the Civil Code does not apply to transfers of portfolios as a resolution measure, on the one hand, to strengthen the effectiveness of the measure, on the other hand, in order to harmonise the process of insurance resolution with those of other sectors, for example banks. The eighth, after extensive discussions with the stakeholders, resulted in an extension of the old liquidation until 30 June, so that there would be a period of adjustment to the new scheme. Ninth, the assessment of the existing clearers proposed by Mr Vorides in the bill provides for specific obligations, such as the submission of a review, an acceleration plan, and also for the continuous provision of information to the supervisory authority, which essentially form an assessment framework. That was the first part of what we adopt. Let me tell you what we have not changed: in Article 28 we did not exempt voluntary transfers of funds from the application of Article 479 of the Civil Code, in order to avoid abuse of this favourable arrangement by virtual transfers aimed essentially at exempting from obligations. You can come back and talk about this again. That's why, Mr. Vorides, we didn't do it. We did it in Article 228, but not in Article 28. Secondly, we have not changed the right thing from the premiums that go to the Auxiliary Fund with an amendment to Article 278, as requested, from a percentage to a fixed percentage for each vehicle - for example, EUR 15 for each car - because this would effectively cancel any form of progressiveity, further burdening the insured in a horizontal manner. Finally, we did not accept the auxiliaries' amendment to 242 for the so-called 'cutters'. In addition, reference is made in the article itself to Decree-Law No 489/76, which provides for these cuts. Regarding the Auxiliary, we would like to intervene regulatoryly on issues of n.4092/2012, the constitutionality of which is pending at the Ice Bay's plenary session. The Auxiliary issues need to be solved separately and in total rather than by amendments to a bill such as Solvency II. Thus, all stakeholders will be heard and the Auxiliary will be sustainable without prejudice to the interests of the insured. I think I have given you a general picture of what we are adopting and what we are not adopting. The rapporteurs will also speak. After all, there is quite a deal on these issues. If there are any other issues, we can also discuss them in plenary. I would like to say, Mr President, that some legislative improvements, with which I think there will be no problem, because they do not change anything at all that will create some concern on some side of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Athens Gymnasium of Experimental Gymnasium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Justice has the floor, Mr Paradoxopoulos, in order to support a specific amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment which I am going to be supporting is urgent and that is why it is introduced in plenary as a delay. It concerns large projects in the country, which are evolving and which are financed with deadlines, which, when they go away, raise issues of loss. That is why there is this urgency. As you will recall, the same amendment had been introduced in plenary yesterday, in another piece of legislation, to include a directive, a framework decision and a decision as well. It was then withdrawn in order for the House to have more time to study this amendment. Therefore, a text is currently being introduced which is generally well known. The amendment contains some arrangements that speed up the expropriation procedure in order to speed up the implementation of major projects. The settings are mainly techniques and are precisely serving this element of acceleration. As a whole, the amendment constitutes an amendment to Article 7A of the Code on Simplifications. In other words, it is an amendment of legislation and a provision, which already applies. The arrangements relate to the change of the court from a three-member court to a single court of appeal, in order to enable the proceedings to be accelerated. The rest of the articles provide for legal additions or changes, such as the fact that it is mentioned, not only for the owner of the property, but also for the lawmaker or owner, so that we do not have a legal barrier to the progress of expropriations for this reason. Provision is made for the use of data and documents in digital format. The speeding up of the procedure will lead to shorter deadlines. For example, the case-law can be determined for discussing the application on the first day following the completion of a 20-day period and the provision of no suspension of enforcement against the decision adopted on them is added. The regulation is also accompanied by a legislative improvement, which is an entirely technical one. It was tabled two days ago, and already the legislative improvement proposed and will be tabled now, concerns the movement of a paragraph from the main body of the arrangements in the article with the transitional arrangements, because it is, in fact, a transitional one and it concerns the applications pending. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Theocratic, SYRIZA rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, the title of which the President mentioned at the beginning of the debate, we incorporate a European directive and European legislation. We are mainly integrating European Directive 138/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council, but also other scattered European legislation. What we discussed in detail in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs in four debates - and I would like colleagues in this House to hear it in a few words - is that the system of private insurance companies in our country and in the rest of the European Union also needed regulation. That's for sure. Anyone who says it needed regulation, that there was no distortions and obsessed with the insurance and reinsurance system for insurance and reinsurance companies in Greece, will lie. There have been chronic distortions and pathogens in the last few decades that all of us know who were not poor victims. These victims were the insured. Many times with tricks and tricks the companies either at high interest rates or at other exchanges made the consumer insured and deposited his savings on insurance companies' investment products, which were finally proved to be false pyramids, in order to steal their money. Apart from the insured victims of this distortion, unfortunately, workers were either directly dependent on work or on work contracts. In other words, it has collapsed a large private market system and has collapsed in recent years significant pieces of large private companies, due to the distortions that existed. The political system in which, as SYRIZA - ANEL government, we have been across the street, what has been ruling Greece for for forty years, is also not unresponsible. There was no serious supervision in insurance companies for the establishment of companies, their supervision, how they operated, what products they did, what reserves they did, when the reserves were reduced, how the process of checking the licence and the liquidation was carried out. That is what is happening to this day. All this was done with the known distortions, because capitalism in Greece was implemented with the well-known complexity of the old political system, in such a way that the many people have always paid it. This has also been done in the particular sector of the private economy, in the insurance companies. This draft law attempts: it is an opportunity for this European legislation to enter a class. That is what we are trying to do, too, is putting this bill in order to get a class into the private economy that concerns insurance companies. It is good to say that the supervisory authority acquires many responsibilities, which are no other than the relevant management of the Bank of Greece. And we expect this responsible management, the supervisory of insurance and reinsurance companies, to do its part properly, as it has been trying to do in recent years. But now, on the basis of this bill and of European legislation, it has the powers to check where insurance companies are walking, not to get to the same pathogens and not to have the same victims. The incidents of tens of thousands of people are known, as we had with ASPIS, for example, who are now looking for their savings. This extensive piece of legislation, which exceeds three hundred pages, gives them not only competences, but gives the Bank of Greece the power to adopt decisions, which will be published in the FEK, with which it will set even greater order. It is happy that this European directive is back in 2009 and that the insurance world has five to six years now when it is ‘prepared for this story. The serious companies, i.e. the supervisory authority and the other States in the European area, are preparing for the incorporation of these directives. It is not a sudden thing to come to them now and they should be closed tomorrow. The serious companies - we heard the bodies in the committee - say that we are in a process, we will sit a little under the bar, but we are prepared for it both in staffing and in funds. They are given a period until 31 December of this year in order to be able to meet the requirements of this law. First of all, I wanted to talk about Solvent II - since we are translating into this time-frame. Solvency II, which we incorporate, aims to unify the European market and improve the protection of insured persons, firstly through reducing the risk of an insurance company being unable to meet its obligations. So the risk cannot meet its obligations is reduced. In fact, with the control system in place, the risk per year reaches only 0.5%, i.e. the proper supervision of companies has been calculated that the risk of bankruptcy, falling out of an insurance company is only 0.5% and thus creating problems both for the insured and for the workers. Then, with this draft law, which incorporates the European directive, the loss of insured persons is reduced if an insurance company cannot respond, because there are the relevant chapters, its respective registers, which the supervisory authority keeps alive, actively, so that even if the obscure company occurs and the company falls outside, the insured do not have serious harm. There is also the provision of timely, rapid warning to supervisory bodies to enable them to intervene if the capital falls from the required limit and the provision of confidence and stability in the insurance sector. There are three main pillars - the Minister has also mentioned - to keep in mind how the bill is moving in his extensive articles. The first pillar concerns the rules on which the technical reserves will be calculated, capital investments, asset management and capital that ensures the desired solvency. We have two concepts: the minimum required capital, which is a minimum to which a company must not reach, and we also have the solvency capital, with which insurance or reinsurance companies must start and remain. If a company - which is what is demanded and what is required by the bill - has the solvency capital, which makes it sound, then I repeat that the risk of this company falling out is only 0.5%. If the company's solvency starts and comes closer to the minimum required capital, things are rusting, the supervisory authority intervenes in various ways and at different stages in order to protect the company, the insured and the employees. This is the first pillar, which relates to the existing funds, their calculation methods and how they are protected, that they cannot be managed, that is to say, in such a way as to jeopardise these reserves. The second pillar relates to internal administration - gornernance is the English term - the governance of these companies, which must be done in terms of transparency and for the first time, internal control conditions are laid down. In other words, each company, in order to comply with the existing legislation, should have internal control systems and when it sees that something is wrong, it must immediately inform the supervisory authority. When this is done, we have three levels of supervisory intervention, depending on the level of capital. Thus, in the first stage, the supervisory authority shall intervene for the first time when the capital reaches a level below the solvency capital, which is the highest. The second step concerns the actions undertaken by the supervisory authority, when the capital is reduced and is between the solvency capital and the minimum required capital. And the third stage of action is when we now reach the minimum capital, which is then usually the case for withdrawal of a licence, and that is now being wound up, which in this particular case is insurance. I would remind you that the first pillar is the requirements for minimum, capital reserves solvency, i.e. that I am passing away is 2.5 million for damage insurance and 3.7 million for life insurance. The first pillar, then, is the quantitative specifications, the second pillar is the rules on company internal governance and the third pillar are the rules on publicity and transparency, where the system of insurance and reinsurance companies was suffering today. There were no reliable and reliable rules of publicity and transparency. Now, we have detailed rules of annual reports - publications on both the Internet and the company supervisory body, which make the company's image both to the supervisory authority, but also to the consumer and to the insured, transparent and accountable. That's what's going on for the first time. This is the end of codification. If we were to see what it actually means to the world, to the insured, this bill is that it provides an adequate level of protection to the insured against a possible insolvency of the insurance company. In addition, we look forward to increased competition, which concerns the whole of the European Union and will bring about a greater variety of products at more affordable prices for the consumer. For insurance companies now what does that mean? As I have said, they must be brought into line with the new framework. Some small companies, where capitalisation is so small and have not been able or will not be able to adapt to this bill, will probably be subject to merger or redemption. These companies, however, would probably be there in the future and would be unreliable. This prevents the sudden withdrawal of a licence with incalculable consequences for the insured, as we have so far. These are the main elements of the law. Now on the articles, I will focus on the most important things I judge, so that this House can have an image, because, I repeat, the legislation is extensive. I go through the original articles, referring to definitions, concepts, which companies concern etc. The licence is necessary to operate a company - that is self-evident - but the penalties are worth mentioning. Apart from the administrative fines and the imposition of a prison sentence, it is also the voidity of any contracts signed. The licence shall be granted either for loss insurance or for life insurance. There is this separation, with the only exception that those who have a life insurance licence can be active in damage to industries in accidents and diseases. The terms of authorisation are exhaustive, and so the role of the supervisory authority is central, I repeat. The company must have its registered office and central administration in Greece, forming an SGE, exclusively for the purposes of the activities of insurance or reinsurance, to submit its statutes and to have the basic own funds. It is also important to check who the shareholders of insurance companies are. The supervisory authority shall have the power to see it, because the shares are nominal and shall only grant permission if it is aware of the identity of the natural or legal persons holding shares or special holdings. Special participation is an increased share capital of the insurance or reinsurance company, which reaches or exceeds 20%. So when we have a significant stake in the company, then the supervisory authority asks who is who and who has a full picture of both natural and legal persons. It is important for both invoices and terms. They are free, without any prior approval, and this shows the direction that comes in European legislation. But - and this is important here again, the role of the supervisory authority - while the tariffs are free, with the decision of the supervisory authority published in the CVT, to request information on increases and invoicing of insurance contracts. How will the supervisory authority manage? Personnel and operating expenses shall be covered by the contributions of the companies by a decision published in the FEK. Now, with regard to the internal administration and the rules of companies, I mentioned earlier that they are subject to internal regular audits, that is to say, systematic, transparent, organisational structure, company internal audit systems and they are in cooperation with the supervisory authority. And that's what they're making public too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as specific participation is concerned, I mentioned before, when someone gets an increased capital in these companies, it must pass through the supervisory control. So is when it transfers a very increased capital, respectively. I mentioned before the limits of capital, which insurance or reinsurance companies should have, depending on whether they are in the injury sector, 2.5 million, or in the life insurance sector, 3.7 million. I will still need two-three minutes, Mr President, to mention the relevant capital for insurance companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u9	I would ask that we keep the time, because we have limited time today. We have a possible vote in Parliament, and you realise that we must keep the time. I'll give you another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u10	All right, Mr. President. It was also mentioned by the Minister in this regard. In the event of deterioration of the financial situation, the companies shall immediately inform the supervisory authority. If it falls from the high level of solvency, then within two months it must submit a realistic economic recovery plan, which can take up to seven years. If it falls from the minimum capital requirement, it submits a realistic funding programme. However, if the supervisory authority is not convinced, it may withdraw the authorisation. Where the intervention was made - and it is important to say, although the Minister also mentioned it - because it must be cleared and closed with this, Mr President - it is that in the winding-up process, which is now transparent and specific, with a specific limit of thirty-six months, workers are preferred throughout the company's assets. That was what they were asking for and was the stress of the workers who came to the committee as bodies, because they have rightly lost confidence in how the system works. So, after the liquidation costs have been deducted, workers throughout the company take precedence over their assets and follow the State, the insurers and those who have collateral. It is a bill with which the majority of the parties and the committee agree. It puts the area of insurance and reinsurance companies in order, which is why I call on you to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. I would ask that the time should be respected, given that, in consultation with the parties and the President of the Parliament, who are here, the sitting will be closed at 15.00 p.m. There may also be a request for a roll-call vote. You realise that it is decided that the sitting will be completed at 15: 00 and that is why I would ask that the time be respected as precisely as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-nine students and students and two teachers from the 1st Gymnasium of Pefkis. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, there are procedural issues with what you have said, but not to bother now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Loverdo, there's been a consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u14	No conspiracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u15	The President is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u16	We have very serious issues. It's a plenary session...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u17	The agreement that has been made is with the parties, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u18	No conspiracy! I'll see you after the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u19	Many Members have been asked to determine the time on Friday. All last week, there was...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u20	...in a way that erupts us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u21	Come on, it's not the President's fault...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u22	Consensus has been made, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u23	There has been no consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u24	If you now have this view, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u26	Why now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u27	I will not give you the floor for that. Do you want anything else?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u28	Aren't you going to give him to me? Then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Loverdo, we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u30	That's what we said, Mr. Colleague, but we see that you're reacting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u31	But I do not react, I express the view of all parties. It's not my personal view. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the adaptation of Greek legislation to the European framework, known as Solvency II." These Directives include provisions concerning the establishment of rules for the taking-up and pursuit of the business of direct insurance and reinsurance by private undertakings operating in Greece, the supervision of such branches and groups active in them, and the resolution and liquidation of direct insurance undertakings. We have indeed taken a positive stand on the principle and on the articles in the committee responsible. Of course, you know for us harmonisation with Community legislation is generally welcome, because our prolongation believes in the country's European orientation. So we are always ideologically positive about such legislation. Our support also comes from the fact that the legislation recognises that private insurance has increased, as more and more European Union states are aware that it is an essential complement to any other benefits from the Member States themselves to its citizens. Private insurance is, in fact, a transfer of weight from the State to the private economy. That is something that, as you know, we always support and we are not ashamed to say so. We want private initiative to be strengthened. We want a small state, a state that operates with a strong private economy, an environment in which creation is encouraged, in which production is encouraged, in which healthy entrepreneurship is founded, in which wealth is produced. We do not want, of course, Minister, to form an uncontrolled field. I leave your interesting ideological controversy with Mr. Voridis on top - ten on the edge. We are in favour of the rules and, in particular, of the rules at European level. We are in favour of harmonising our country with these rules, which we reliably want to cross-check and conclude. And since, as has been seen from the recent pre-dated debate here on insurance, we have a different approach to ensuring the national objective, namely ensuring the sustainability of the insurance system, and because at the moment - like people on the streets - we believe that the government is moving in the wrong direction to ensure this, we will not agree with the legislative improvement that you propose in Article 166 by removing paragraphs 1 and 2, which - in order to understand people and colleagues - enable the State to replace its obligation to provide health services in whole or in part by private insurance companies and instructs the supervisory authority to judge what rules and provisions must be in the public interest. Of course, we recognise what you said, Minister, that the existing framework does not allow this, but, if you like, our disagreement has a symbolic character in the context of the handling you are currently doing in insurance. So the main objective of the bill is for insurance companies, but also for the supervisory authorities responsible for the task of supervising them for the benefit of those insured to ensure what? The solvency of these undertakings and the Community Solvency II framework have changed radically both at both material and procedural level the supervision of insurance undertakings and its aim is to manage the risks more holisticly. Therefore, emphasis is placed not only on the individual risks, but also on the overall level of operation of the insurance undertaking. The new conditions and procedures introduced lead to a clearer representation of the critical economic elements and sizes of insurance companies. Under Solvency II, the insurance market, like other sectors of the financial sector in Europe, will now operate under full harmonisation and integration. In other words, a plan for the creation of the single European private insurance market is being completed, which requires new conditions of operation and competition between enterprises in the sector. I will not go into the details of the legislation, and the colleague has covered them before. I will say that we have a new method of calculation in the first pillar, a new method for the solvency capital required under the terms ‘minimum capital rating’ and ‘solvency capital rating’. The concept of the existence of this solvency capital requirement is an element of innovation and the methods used are more modern and this is in the right direction. It is also positive that the principle of prudent investor is introduced by the legislation, according to which insurance undertakings are now investing in elements and instruments where risks can be measurable, identifiable, monitored and managed, audited and reported in relation to them. We therefore support the bill, because it has advantages for consumers too. And the main advantage is an adequate level of protection against the possible insolvency of the company and the increased competition on European insurance markets too. This is because we believe in free competition, in the free market, we believe that the directive will bring about a greater variety of products at more affordable prices for the consumer. It's an interesting story of how the law got here. It's a classic government delay story. I think that, despite the ideological controversy that has taken place - and the ideological controversy, of course, moves to the new communication line of the government, that, you know, we in all the legislations will now be the neoliberals who are classed toward the weak and to the contrary we have the sensitive leftists who have brought the third and worst memorial to the country - this is not so much ideology. It results rather from sloppyness and inability. The bill we are debating today should have been transposed into national law by 31 March 2015. In particular, on 30 September 2014 the relevant Legislative Committee had completed its work on the legislation. Of course the elections, the agreement on creative ambiguity, have taken place - so to remember - which was then of course negotiated by the Minister of Finance, Mr Chakaloto. Do we remember him? And I ask, Minister, if you remember your predecessor, because despite the shocking recent revelations he made about Plan X, about the ECB's bond haircut, about a parallel currency, there has been no position by the government, by the Prime Minister or by you in the Finance Committee on whether you were aware of these issues if you were consulted. You didn't tell us anything about it. You have not even answered me to the committee - from the microphone, at least - if you continue with this amazing practice that Mr Varoufakis claims to be using. Did you record your colleagues at EUROGROUP, Mr. Chakaloto? You didn't tell us that. In any case, while the negotiation, which Harvard did not include on top 10, Minister, gave a failure Oscar - it continued, on 16 June 2015, someone recalled that there was this piece of legislation and that the March deadline has passed and it came out for public consultation, which was completed on 30 June. Of course, in the summer we had some dramatic things happening in the country: we had the referendum, we had the closure of the banks, we had the capital controls, and we also had the peak of the drama that led to the third SYRIZA - ANEL Memorandum. And of course, again elections! How much time for bills after elections! On 19 November, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission comes with a press release and says - to be fair, not only to us but to other countries - the following: Do you know what? If you do not transpose Community law into your national law in two months, we will fine you and we will be forced to take you to the European courts as well. So, after all this, on the day that the European Commission closes two months and on this warning, the legislation comes to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs at last. Uh, we caught up with this, Minister, didn't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u33	Oh, of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u34	Let's see now why we have new deadline, you're happy, Mr. Manda. We have a new three-month deadline to do this, which we have agreed on the refugee issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u35	Do you guys have a pleasure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u36	No, I'm not happy, but I don't have the responsibility to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u37	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u38	If that is not the case, then, we are not discussing anything, having avoided a fine from the European Commission. In order to understand what we are going to talk about, we will probably discuss the difficult situation in which your handling of immigration has brought us, namely, to talk about a possible suspension in three months of the privileges we enjoy as a country because we are in the Schengen Treaty. So does the government want to take a little more seriously this deadline, which has been set for us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u39	Should you say something about Europe?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u40	In the light of the clarifications made by the Minister for the Legislative Decree. Minister, we agree with your amendments to Article 224, Article 228, Article 229, Article 240 and Article 241, Article 278 and Article 279. The only point I want to make is for Article 248. This is the amendment that you extended until 1 August the mandate of existing clearers. That's in the right direction. Today you told us that you would introduce some evaluation criteria, which we had discussed. And that's in the right direction. However, you will obviously be watching what is on the market these days for the specific purpose for which the term of office of these clearers will be terminated. I think you should see the wording in the law that provides that without any other wording their term of office will end over this eight-month period and consider very seriously the solution that we have proposed to you, which is to have a minimum period of five years for the appointment of liquidators. That would be fair and would leave this table the chatter that exists for the reasons that happen and hide behind it. It would be fair to have an assessment and to decide which clearers do their job well and who do not. Along with the bill, new amendments have come and I predict, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate today, as far as it goes, will rather focus on these amendments. I am starting with the amendment to the PSE, which you announced by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, perhaps to prepare us psychologically for what is coming. The debate on the constitutionality of Article 2 of the Treaty. 4339 in relation to Article 15(2) of the Constitution, it is a debate that has taken place in this Chamber before, as to whether you can transfer ERR responsibilities to the relevant Minister, Mr Pappa. I see that this debate will continue in detail today. I would like to focus on my introduction to the political substance of this amendment, which he says? It says that the number of permits required will be determined by law, i.e. here in Parliament. I note that the House is dealing with rules of law, but that's all right. Because it is important to be fully understood in the world, I ask a few simple questions, which we have been concerned with around this piece of legislation. You're saying you're doing this to put a class in the radio field? Because if you do that, we have already agreed that this is a proper target. But this could be done by the PSE, the Independent Authority, who is responsible for doing so. So, if you were really interested in that, there's a way, and that's one way we'd agree. So that's not the objective. So why did you initially take responsibility from the ERR and take it to the relevant Minister, Mr. Pappa? I think we will agree that Mr Pappas is not independent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u41	Was he ever at the PSE?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u42	That is why you have given Mr Pappa the power, because you know that this competence can be treated as you think you are. This has not only solved the problem because the PSE requires a majority of 4/5 of the Conference of Presidents to be appointed. So the problem isn't solved. But what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u43	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u44	Fair reactions were made, because you made Mr. Pappas the consciousness of the world super-Canary ruler. [[At this point, the Minister's glass breaks, Mr. Pappas.]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Did you have an accident, Mr. Pappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u45	We did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u46	Aah! "Stop it all," says the people! So you made him in the consciousness of the world super-Canary ruler Mr. Pappa. So he started to lose credibility on the argument that you are doing this all to combat corruption and strife and began to go through people's minds that it was probably your real intention to check the information and that the Prime Minister's trustworthy Prime Minister, Mr. Poppas, will do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u47	Was that before?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Mitsotakis, who told you, look at you see, replace the law and look at consensus support for the PSE members. Because if Mr. Pappas, with the "Decision and Order" determines the number of permits, you know, people don't say it independently, it says that "self-government",...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u49	Oh, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u50	... he says it'regulatory mentality' and he starts to worry a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u51	Was that before? What's there? Says who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u52	And what is there to this day, how do you say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u53	So we're coming to your trick today. It will decide, you say, legally the elected Parliament of the Greeks on the number of permits. And who has the majority, ladies and gentlemen, in this House? You! How convenient! That's very convenient!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u54	The majority is the point of what he says!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u55	So Mr. Pappas will decide, he will come here and you will vote for it. Will you now tell me that you are going to vote for more, did the number of television licences show you? I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek Parliament is not a washing machine for your authoritarian and state-of-the-art practices. A coordinate state must not interfere with the constitutionally regulated principles at hand, and that cannot be washed away by anything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, for a minute I ask for your tolerance. So I understand your desire to control everything, to place your own people and do it, without being left behind in positions of responsibility. And if these positions are temporary, as you say, they are positions of power, that counts, and what they will do as long as they are there. And karate people who don't serve you, by concise procedures to put your own people in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u56	Do they serve you? Who do these people serve there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u57	If you want to disprove me, ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u58	Tell us specifically who they serve!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u59	You!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u60	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, do you want me to have a conversation with my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u62	No, but please don't interrupt. Please, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u63	When my colleagues calm down, I would like my time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u64	Let me tell you one more thing, let me close. The "adhesions" that the "maestro" gave me the opportunity to suffer... five years we've suffered you, you don't fear us. You are enemies of democracy and you will pay this from the people!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u65	Please, no dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u66	One breaks glasses, the others shout! Calm down, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u67	Keep going, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u68	If you want to disprove me, then, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Pappas, please show me that you want to respect the principle of independence, add to the provision you have brought here as an amendment that the number of licences will be determined by law and will be voted on by 4/5 of this House. Let's see, will you do that? And then Mr. Poppas won't break glasses and I won't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u69	You're talking about amending the Constitution! You're talking about a review House!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u70	I conclude by saying that, with your amendment to the Competition Committee, you are making one of the same. So what are you doing? You want to carat those who don't serve you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u71	While they serve you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u72	Did the pain suddenly catch you sincerely for the relatives and husbands appointed in public? Is that what we have to believe?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u73	And you don't?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u74	Or did you appoint them all and no others left?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u75	You're not ashamed of me at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u76	Look, we have a subject here in this provision. The spouses are excluded, but you are obviously still serving because I do not think those who have a cohabitation agreement are excluded. Do you want to see that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u77	What you said, Anna, it's gross!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u78	Do you seriously not think people understand what you are going to do with both the PSE and the Competition Committee? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that Greeks and Greek women from all the social classes and from all the professional groups are on the streets. Why? Because the account of this incompetent and destructive government, which recently celebrated power a year with an arsonist, hybridistic, splitting spot, which is precisely attacking and targeting the people who serve the information. The first of these is addressed to them. I hope the Greek people have understood what you are going to go through today. Otherwise, I predict that with Mr Pappas in charge and you wash him out, this little spot will be seen every day on TV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Asmakopoulou. Before giving the floor for two minutes to Mr Chakaloto, who requested him, I have to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and students and an educational attendant from the 4th Primary School of Korydalou. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u80	I would like to make some clarifications about the amendments and the draft law. But, before I say these, I will make two comments on Mrs Asmakopoulou's speech. Firstly, I would like to clarify that the line of government and SYRIZA has not changed for the neoliberalism of your party. She's stable. We always thought so. Perhaps we could say that before you had a hard right-wing prime minister who closed the eye and was based on neoliberals, and now you have a neoliberal, who closes the eye on the hard right. But that is why I do not think there is any reason to clarify. The second point concerns Mr Varoufakis. I have been placed too many times on this issue and in interviews with the Prime Minister, what we knew, what we did not know. We have clarified the positive and the negative. We have also criticised the first semester. We have explained that, in our view, there is collective responsibility for a government, and so we will not continue to say the same. Moreover, on personal grounds, I would like to tell you that a person can be a Minister of Finance and do his duty or can respond to the interviews for Mr Varoufakis. Both of them don't happen for time. Thirdly, I come to the bill we're discussing. The amendments which the Bureau has asked me to put in place, in fact we accept two, which are basically one because they are similar. This is the amendment with a general number 145 and a special number 33 by Mr Manatis and Mr Jelloni. Similarly, we are accepting the fourth under General Numbers 153 and 36, which are again one of the two Members. The reasons for not accepting the other amendments have been explained in my speech. I would just like to say to Mrs Asmakopoulou that the extension of the liquidators is until 30 June, not 30 August. The existing provisions result from the clearers' obligations, which are essentially an evaluation framework, which is what we are discussing. As far as existing clearing is concerned, it has already been in 2012. They tell me that only one is from 2013. So they're all old enough to need a distinction between the young and the old. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I have asked for the floor to raise an issue of unconstitutionality under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. Unconstitutionalism is the amendment tabled by the relevant Minister, Mr Pappas, on the subject of the PSE. Starting to develop the issue of unconstitutionality, Mr Pappa, I would like to say that he is a laughingstock, because what was tabled is for laughing and crying. Laughing for what? Ladies and gentlemen, I raise this issue to you as it was in the law that has been passed and I read to you the words: 'In a decision of the Minister, to which the respective powers of the Secretariat-General for Information and Communication are conferred, after a reasoned opinion of the PSE and public consultation, the number of tendered content licences is determined'. What did the arrangement say? That the Minister may determine the number of licences, but it is conditional on the reasoned opinion of the PSE and public consultation. What does the Minister change with his amendment? In his amendment, the Minister says that during the first application of this provision - that is to say, the basic structure within the provision is maintained - the number of tendered content licences per category is determined by law. Here's laughing! The laughter is that the Minister brings us a provision, with which, Mr President, he tells us that Parliament can legislate. I would like to congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, that is accurate! The House can legislate. And if you judge that he can legislate and determine the number of licences, then why didn't you bring us the number of permits for this House to legislate? Can you bring us a provision that says that Parliament can legislate on the number of permits? Bring the number of permits to legislate! That's great! And I go to the second one that's for crying. So I read now what is anti-constitutional: Article 15(2) of the Constitution: 'Radio and television are directly controlled by the state'. I stress that this was the original wording, the old one. The following shall be added to a review for the audit. What check? What's he talking about? For the purposes of checking this subparagraph immediately, what it says falls under the direct control of the State. 'The control and enforcement of the administrative penalties relating to this control are subject to' - where? - "the exclusive competence of the National Broadcasting Council, which is an Independent Authority as defined by law". That's what our Constitution says. I'll say why he says it. There's ratio legis. "The direct control of the State which receives and in the form of the status of the prior licence" - that is to say, that control - 'is aimed at the objective of objective and equal transmission of information and news' - therefore objectiveness must be served, says the Constitution - 'as well as products of speech and art, ensuring the quality of the programmes required by the social mission of radio and television and the cultural development of the country, as well as respect for the value of human beings and the protection of childhood and youth'. This is all the responsibility of the PSE. All this! And Mr Pappas comes in and says with his first provision, the one he has done with the law: 'No, I want to determine the number of permits'. I assume that Mr. Pappas will bring me an argument, that there was a prior wording in a previous law at the time of analogue television. I keep it because it's a real argument, but you have to answer the constitutional question. But be careful, ladies and gentlemen: since this is the case, what is Mr Pappas doing now? The first mistake, namely that the Minister keeps the definition of the number of licences, the first unconstitutionalism is supposed to heal it with a second one. Now, listen, why is the constitutional legislator doing all this? The constitutional legislator, as well as the European framework, comes and says: "I all this process, because I understand its importance for the functioning of democracy, I want to colonize it, dismantle it, I want to give it to an independent authority", so that Mrs Asmakopoulou does not come and blame Mr Papa for building the state of the left and that she is turned into a propaganda. He doesn't want to come in, says the constitutional legislator. We don't want to have this conversation. I want him decolonized. And how do we do that? Making an independent authority and giving Parliament an obligation to agree to 80% - the Conference of Presidents, the political forces - to the persons who will set up this authority, so that there is a wide, broad consensus to lose its party features. And what's Mr. Pappas doing? Mr. Poppas does exactly the opposite. On the one hand, it has taken the government this decision, which is primarily a political body, and now it comes and brings it to Parliament, which is likewise a political body, and, on the other hand, Parliament is obviously not deciding with 4/5 on these matters, it decides by a simple majority and I shall rightly say. However, the spirit of the constitutional legislature is completely annulled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be 30 seconds, Mr. President. What is the worst, ladies and gentlemen, that asks you to do? The worst of all? That this does not make any sense at all. The main argument you will see in the explanatory statement is that the authorisation procedure should be initiated and initiated. But since the notice comes out of the ERC, this notice will never be issued. It will never be issued because the ERR has no legal structure. You have made two legislative interventions - this is the second one - you are supposed to overcome the issue of formation. So you are coming, Mr Pappa, and you are accusing us of protecting the complexion and not leaving the procedure, Mr Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u85	You said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u86	I say it in introductory terms that you say it, not me. I am referring to what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u87	Then put in the quotes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u88	We're coming and we're telling you, Mr. Pappa, something simple. Would you like to vote on an amendment in which we will transfer responsibility for the number of licences where they really are, to the PSE? And we are now committed to forming the PSE. Do you want to do that? Further, do you want me to tell you, how's the complication getting hit? Do you want us to open up the number of licences and put as many licenses as technology allows, so that there is no complicity and competition? Therefore, those who do not really want to hit the argument, but who want to make their own engagement, are those who recommend unconstitutional provisions to Parliament. That is why, Mr President, I think that the issue of unconstitutionalism must be accepted and the proposed amendment rejected as unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Voridis. You are obviously raising the issue of constitutionality and you are asking for the House to give its opinion so that Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure applies. According to this article, there will also be a representative. The rival is Mr. Lappas, who has exactly the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u90	We also want to raise an issue of unconstitutionality, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u91	Yes, Mr. Carras, then. Mr. Lappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. No unconstitutional issue exists. The objection is an objection of essential anti-constitutionality, i.e. the objections are directed to the insult of the substance and not to the type of the device. In this sense, Mr Vorides should know that three basic principles of Constitutional law must be cumulatively violated. Firstly, the principle of the rigour of the Constitution. Secondly, the principle of separation of functions, i.e. Article 26 of the Constitution. Thirdly, the resurgence of the Constitution into a fundamental law. We know from Constitutional Law that the Constitution is suprema, lex suprema and essential. The unconstitutionalism here is essential. Lawyers know what I'm talking about. Mr. Loverdos understands what I'm saying. We are talking about substantial unconstitutionalism. We are talking about the insult of lex fundamentalis, the substance of the device. What did Mr. Vorides say? That Article 15 of the Constitution provides supposedly power of an independent authority to tender. Where does that come from? Do you want me to read to you what the Constitution says? The Constitution is strict, concrete and vague. In fact, it is so coherent that we cannot intervene with one tonne from the letter of the law. It says, therefore, that radio and television are directly controlled by the state. For the control of the state - and indeed the immediate one - I do not think anyone will disagree. What did Mr. Vorides say? It extends the concept of the provision and says that when we say about the control and enforcement of administrative sanctions awarded to an independent authority, it is allegedly included by the Constitution as the competence of this Authority and the conduct of a competitive procedure or a tender, the determination of the number of licences, the starting price, etc. First of all, Mr Vorides, this is a huge mistake, legal and constitutional. Do you know why, Mr. Voridis? In Union law Greece is one of the five - six countries which has foreseen a constitutional Regulatory Authority that imposes sanctions for violating the provisions in the television field. In fact, I would mention that in October we tabled to the Minutes, and I was the rapporteur and the Minister responsible, Mr Papapas, a practical one from the European Audiovisual Observatory dealing with seven countries. In fact, we are not talking about simple countries or countries - par ticulars, but about countries such as France, Germany and the Netherlands. What did that practice say? It appeared that the licence was directly owned by the relevant Minister, that is to say, exclusively by the executive authority. Greece is one of the few countries that predicts that in the field of sanctions n. 4339 says what the PSE's responsibilities are. It is the control of files, possible sanctions if there is an irregularity or an irregularity, the exclusion of a candidate, because his file is not complete, with regard to sanctions, the possibility that when they take the authorisation may withdraw the sanction. And this and other sanctions provided for in the PSE. But what you have said does not come from anywhere under the constitution of the PSE. So I say to you that in countries such as Italy, Spain, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark, Finland, only the Minister responsible has to do with the starting price and the number of channels. There is no Regulatory Authority, except the Ministry responsible. We belong to the countries - well, in my view - where the Constitution provides for the existence of the PSE and confers certain specific powers. What is the unconstitutionality of what? So, will we, in your view, extend the conceptual importance and dimension of Article 15(2) of the Constitution? Is that what you said in the article? Article 15(2), Mr Voridis, has been fully analysed and legitimised by the CCT. I have here five - seven ad hoc decisions - if you like, I can table them in the Minutes - where there is a full analysis of the meaning, legal nature, importance and scope of the provision. You're going through it and side by side. That's not what you said, and that's not what there is. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Finally, Articles 11 and 12 of the Law. 4339 analyzed 'ad hoc', very specifically what responsibilities the PSE has. One competence is not only to determine the starting price and the number of licences. In what sense does this result for you from a constitutional check and obligation? Where? From the text of the law? I read the interpretation of Article 15(2). There's nowhere. See the decisions of the Council of State referred to in the explanatory memorandum to the L. 4339. There are a number of CSU decisions. Furthermore, the provision that comes from us restores not only a political or economic anomaly, but above all a legal and constitutional anomaly. The last twenty-five years regime is abnormal multiples and at all levels. This anomaly we want to heal and you do not come, as you did not come to the Conference of Presidents, where the names that came to the public are nothing but symmetrical. And now, you are trying with various stumbling blocks to prevent the restoration of an anomaly that the country, society and the Greek Parliament need. I'm presenting to you for the minutes of the CoR's decisions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decisions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. Mr. Cassidy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u94	It is really anger to refer to a constitution, the National Council for Broadcasting, pluralism and conflict between the archipelagos and SYRIZA and the New Democracy. I would like to ask the following question: What are the National Broadcasting Councils talking about, when I personally have gone to the previous Administration - nothing will change now, and nothing is going to change with this lousy piece of legislation, with this disgusting amendment, the manifestly unconstitutional amendment that you are proposing today - thousands of complaints about the elimination of the positions of the third political force of the country from all the intertwined channels and from public television? No ERR is going to do anything. I've seen the names of those who are proposing to serve the PSE. A Laocrates, a Mr. Janetakos, who called for the anti-Gold Dawn anti-concentration to break our heads, will be the National Broadcasting Council that will approve television licenses! Really, you're talking about a number of television licenses. I don't want a number. It's gonna be eight again. The pimps themselves will take the shot again. I want names. To take the political responsibility of the government. Come here and say names. Will Bobollas, Psykris, be the regulators of communication in Greece again? Will Yanna Angelopoulou, who is Tsipra's favorite, who "was taken from the hand" and took him to the Clinton Foundation? These will be the same names. We are the "Golden Guide", as your Prime Minister had said when he was afraid to mention who are the ones that regulate public life in the country. The People's Association - Golden Dawn, as a third political force, has 0% television time on private television and has not accepted any invitations at all to any policy broadcasts on state television, created by SYRIZA, using some lame to hide the positions of the country's third political force. The President of Parliament, who is also present, spoke of a consensus. What consensus are you talking about, Mr President of the House? When did you ask for the third party's consent to nominate the members of the National Broadcasting Council and you say that, because there is no consensus, there must be a legislative initiative from the House, which is controlled by the SYRIZA with its 'urban', the ANELs? If you wanted a consensus, if you wanted legality to be respected, if you wanted the Constitution to be observed, you had to see what the existing legislation says and follow what the law says about what happens when the National Broadcasting Council is nine. I read by law number 2173, Article 1, 'Cooperation and responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council': When the PSE is nine-members the first in number of seats of a Parliamentary Party has four regular members, the second has two members, and the third party - in our case the People's Association - Golden Dawn - has one member and one alternate member. So where is consensus, you say you want dialogue? What dialogue? The People's Association - Golden Dawn remains excluded. It is the aim of new state television, the aim of the private channels that will arise from this disgusting amendment, the manifestly unconstitutional, I repeat. The New Democracy cannot, however, speak of respecting the constitution, which has done the disgraceful with the memorials, has done the shameful thing with the illegal persecution against the Golden Dawn. The former spokesman of the New Democracy as Minister had imposed disgraceful legislation in favour of the interests involved, in favour of pimps, to make more money than tolls. That was what the previous legislature, as Minister of State with the New Democracy. Of course the interests of the interlocutory are served by the New Democracy, but also by SYRIZA today. SYRIZA just wants to have them well with those who remain today pimps in Greece. So what ERR? What constitutionality? In Greece, unfortunately, there is neither a constitution nor any intention at all to respect constitutional legitimacy. The Golden Dawn certainly states that this amendment is unconstitutional. Of course it states that it will not clear the scene. On the contrary, new economic interests will dominate this area of interlocutory, which will not change unless a genuine nationalist power comes to Greece. We are the only wars in the interlocutory. That's why and all this war. That is why the present Minister has instructed that there should be no representative of the People's Association - Golden Dawn on the public television that he created. And let me take the floor to answer why, since it is public television and state money and the Greek taxpayers are not represented on state television the half million Greek citizens who support the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Let him finally have the courage to say "yes, we have ruled out you from everywhere and we fight you by any illegal means". No, however, hiding behind amendments, behind statements by the President of Parliament on allegedly consent with all political forces. There is no consensus, because our party is the only fear of this complex system that you represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u96	I hope, Mr President, that all the parliamentary groups are informed by their representatives at the Conference of Presidents of what was discussed a few days ago on this subject. All parties to the opposition, Mr President, were there. You remember that. We stressed what we had said to Mr Papapas and to the House on 24 October when the relevant law was passed, that we believe, we want, we stress, we consider it necessary and so on. - depending on each of the phrases - this responsibility, i.e. to determine the number of licences, is to be at the National Broadcasting Council. We have all appreciated that this is the logic, the spirit, the purpose, if you like, of Article 15(2) of the Constitution, as we have shaped it. I was present, I remember dialogue as now, I remember what all the parties said then, in 2001. For Mr Vorides rightly said that the explanation of what is direct control, that it includes broadcasting licences, and that is the EPP, the independent authority responsible for these procedures, did so in 2001 with the Revision of the Constitution. We specified the first subparagraph of Article 15(2) of the Constitution. That's how it happened. What does the government and the majority want now? Stagnation? We have all told him that this is what we want the institution to be, that is, the independent authority, where the President of Parliament is proposing members whose majority, in his opinion, thinks in a better way. I'm taking this nicely. This is how the majority is thinking and will make a synthetic proposal that most of us will vote for to meet the requirement of 4/5, a requirement relating to the definition of the members of the administrations of the independent administrative authorities. What does the government now want with this practice? What now does he want with this proposal for a law that he's doing today? We must go back to a Conference of Presidents and stagnation and be the area undergoing extortion. I don't understand anything else than what's going on today. You've been blackmailing as long as you can. Because, my President, it makes sense what we are all asking him to do. If it does not, by adapting to the Constitution of the country, to the next and the next and the opposite conference, there will be the same stamina. The government wants this to be held hostage to the area of communication. That is how I interpret Mr Pappa's proposal today. Let's go a little more political now. What does he want to tell us today? "Not me," he says. If you object to me being the one who will determine the number of licences as the canalarch - the original ruler - not me, then, but the House. Ash in the eyes, after more than forty years C of the Hellenic Republic, with all the data of the parliamentary life known here? What will the House be, ladies and gentlemen, on a point of order? What will it be? A technical know-how of the issues, which will result in four, not five, not six, not seven, should be empty. Ahem in the eyes of a people who are experienced and in a parliament that is very experienced cannot be thrown away by a minister who imagines that he will have a red button in his office, such as some other ministers in some other countries, he will step on and do his will. Minister, don't you think you're taking your eyes and your eyes off the country? Because all you do is already on 5 November, which is your law and now your practices, to the European Commission in the form of petitions or complaints. They will say that every time the government has a difficulty doing what it wants, it does what we saw in the film of the Stalinist type we saw on the anniversary of the one-year government of SYRIZA. Minister, can you imagine us, that Mr. Austrias and Mr. Papadakis have had us for five years every morning 'in the handkerchiefs', should we also go out in every election process and make them a spot? We have never thought of denying the criticism, which you do not tolerate, so you see agents, dragons behind criticism against you. You are obliged, when you are criticised, to go out and answer her. That's what we did, and that's what we do. To every journalist who was against us, we were telling him our opinion. This is democracy. And your destiny is to be critical. So you come here and say 'to do what I want, I vote for a law on the subject, October 24th. This law does not come to me and I am now bringing regulation.’ [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you keep doing this to me with the bell, but I no longer care. You only do this to me and I don't care. What do you want to tell me now, to finish? I won't finish. I'll say for two more minutes my views.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Loverdo, excuse me, you're a different legal officer, I'm not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u98	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u99	Read article 100, gives everyone five minutes, everyone, and the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u100	Good. Thank you! Can I finish my thoughts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u101	What to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u102	What do you want now? Can I finish my thoughts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u103	Can I give you a minute more? I'll give it to you, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u104	Give me more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u105	Don't say I'm making you an opposition. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u106	All right, Mr. President. Today, then, when the government had previous difficulties, it brings this law. If tomorrow, as it seeks, the Conference of Presidents comes and tells her she insists on her views, she will bring another law. All this is structured against you on the argument that: he wants to put a hand in the media, to produce a message at his will, to be Poland, to be a key shareholder, to be what he wants. That's what he wants. And this, Mr President, with less political terms and more legal ones, is against this government in the European Commission. There is also one question, which I wonder how the majority, the government, is over it at the moment. Is there a limited frequency problem? Everyone says today's technology allows an unlimited number of broadcasts of a television message. And because Article 15(2) stipulates what Mr Vorides said earlier, you can - not newspapers here - are televisions - say that I, as the legislator has asked you, Minister, 'a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', conditions. That's what the legislator can say. However, if they are met, he cannot say from those who meet the needs, which I have as legislator defines, "I choose four". The number is his, it's not ours. There is a problem here, Mr President, whoever says so, if the Minister says so, if the Minister says so, if the House says so. There's no restriction. On the contrary, there is an unlimited possibility. So, by intervening here where there is unlimited potential, you are in breach of, in addition to the article of the Constitution I mentioned, Article 4 on equality, Article 5 on which is to do - and here is the point - economic freedom. The combination of these provisions creates that framework which cannot be violated. I have no time to refer to both the Convention on Human Rights and to relevant Community Directives 2010 and 2013. Minister, to close, you're not North Korean Minister. And we will not allow Parliament to become a Parliament which every minister will turn it into a hunger parliament. We'll be here to defend...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u107	What are you talking about? Mr. Loverdos should be revoking right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u108	Sit down! Resist the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u109	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u110	Shame on you! Ungodly! You're disgusting, and you're messing with Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u111	You're not ashamed! Shame on you! Rescind now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u112	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u113	Sit down. Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u114	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u115	Shame on you! Ungodly! You're disgusting, personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u116	I would ask, ladies and gentlemen, that these be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u117	I was gonna tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u118	Talk to me well. What are you gonna say? Talk to me. This is where you're not going to crash.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u119	Please, Mr. Loverdo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u120	What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I wonder how you are presided over, and there is an attempt to turn us here into a parliament of a country that has nothing to do with rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u122	You are not helping the Bureau. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u123	I'm calling you guys down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u124	Please! The President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u125	Take it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u126	This is where you'll pay it all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u127	The President of Parliament has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, quiet! Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of unconstitutionalism in itself, which Mr Vorides spoke about, I believe that the legal and scientific evidence put forward by Mr Lappas previously on the fact that there is no such issue is absolutely clear. However, it is the essence of the matter, and in essence Mr Vorides also raised the issues, but also the next speakers. I'll talk about her, too. For over twenty years, and under the responsibility of political leaders and governments, there has been an unjust broadcasting landscape, for which it has been not even the owners of television media themselves, but it has been an attempt to host even those in a wider political and economic context. The previous governments, and without ever raising a question of unconstitutionality, themselves gave all the permits - I'm talking about the analogue landscape....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u129	Yes, but it's not proportional!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u130	Listen, Mrs. Buddhism!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u131	What can I hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u132	The previous ones, therefore, gave all the extensions of permits with disgraceful amendments - which we came here to vote on every 31 December - in days of memoranda and commitments from the first and second memoranda were exempted from giving 20% of their turnover. These governments were leading executives who are speaking today. It has already heard what has been said and I do not want to get into this debate at all. Things have been heard about countries, times and phases painfully passed by our country. The previous governments, therefore, have given water and shelter to this greenhouse of interlocutory. And we come today, three months later, to make a serious and systematic effort to reach a consensus so that the new landscape in the digital age can be shaped in a way that is truly transparent, public and economically sound. So such an effort is being made. In this effort, veto is vetoed by the Party of Officerial Response two and a half months later - their right, political movement - and today Mr Borides and Mr Loverdes are coming and say what Mr Leventis said last week, namely their opinion on the substance. What is their view? Does it allow the digital range to exist as many channels as they want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u133	Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u134	So give permission and anyone who can, will stand on the market! I would like to say to you that never the range of frequencies - even in the analogue phase - was an argument for any serious view of the whole phases during which a strong public debate was held on how many licences would be granted. Because and then licenses could not, of course, be twenty-seven, as they are now, rather than infinite, as colleagues think, for national channels - eight, nine, ten, eleven and twelve. In fact, that is why there was also a piracy of television stations, which were then sold to others. I mean, go somebody over there, take down a frequency. So it was never the issue of frequency ranges. Because, obviously, there is a range of frequencies, which can cover thematic stations, regional stations, a multitude of television stations. We are talking here about those who are national in scope, the press, those who must have at least four hundred workers, with good working relations, not a gala, as many of them are now, so that they can get back on track. What, then, is the matter? And not to mention one of the countries of Europe, how many stations in the digital spectrum are being maintained. Four, five, six.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u135	Does the House decide whether to open a channel?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u136	The question, therefore, is that, if they are given, as it seems, the opposition, outside the JRC, and with its particular viewpoint and the Golden Dawn, it seems, is that what they are asking is to guide with absolute responsibility this House - because the Conference of Presidents is also expressing Parliament - in a new timeless and endless complexity, the new spectrum. Why? Because if you are allowed, for eight, for nine, for eleven stations now, it is clear that in order to be able to have four hundred workers, etc., with advertising pie which has been reduced to less than half of the crisis, it is impossible, rather than living in these channels, to export to live, beyond what one can imagine, that is to say, the policy of interactivity - I do not raise this issue today - from economic resources outside the production process and the other. That is the request which the House is calling for and that is what the House has to answer. The parties must respond to that. One can't hide behind one's finger. And in this sense, I think it is very right that the government's intervention that brings this issue to the essence of the matter, ladies and gentlemen, should be debated here. Listen, there is no - I repeat - sign of unconstitutionality. There was a mood - and I spoke about this at the Conference of Presidents - through the assumption of Parliament's responsibility for the issue of the number of licences to be dismantled and the opposition parties - I say this right and public - by any pressures of economic interest, so that on Monday we have a Conference of Presidents and since the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u137	You decompress from Angelopoulou and your own intertwined ones. Your people are pushing you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u138	Mrs. Vuldesis, watch out, we're doing it for you. So that all parties, including SYRIZA, the Government or the ANELs, dismantled from any pressure from financial interests, will be able to proceed - and I think that there is an intent to move forward, too - to a substantial debate, in order to reach the PSE, which will take place from there and beyond the process. That's what this is about. We're trying to give this help. Why? For there is, Mr President, a past which is a reproach for Greek democracy and which some want to forget: it was the deepest undermining that took place at that time - another government was not the Left, it was the government of Mr Karamanlis - by the lobbyists of the parties and the major business interests, united in Brussels to suppress the basic shareholder law. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And they know this very well from the President of the Republic to this whole party and the whole House. We will therefore decompress this situation. Because I have caught a hint that the pressure procedure has also been initiated by the Commission, perhaps, and so on. So our country - and I close with it, Mr President - can be the leader, be the first in democratic sensitivity and democratic institutional shield of the new landscape in the digital age, precisely by exploiting the dramatic, beyond the twenty years, period that we have spent and all suffered with this irresponsible landscape of canals and frequencies. I commit - and after the debate again I will take the floor, because I do not want to hide here and you know that I am never hiding - that I will table in the Minutes basics of the discussions, not at any part-sessions of the SYRIZA or of the Coalition, of the BSE conference, on this matter by the President of the Union of Private Television Stations of the Member States, as well as by other approved journalists - very approved journalists - who write in what we call'systemic media', etc. I am committed, in order to know exactly, because I think - and I say this quite rightly - that you are irrelevant to the matter, you are irrelevant to the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u139	And what do we care?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u140	I think you will be able to read the real arguments that make sustainable or unsustainable and necessarily spreading the new landscape.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u141	There's only one, another doesn't exist. It's a face! You got one. One of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u142	These have been tabled for years and years before judgment, that is, when the advertising pie was so much, and it is now so much. What are you asking us? Clear it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Dendias have been asked for the floor, as is the case with the Rules of Procedure, and Mr Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u144	In turn, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u145	The order they have asked for the floor is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u146	No, parliamentary turn goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u147	It's the show. The order requested, not by the power of the parties. It's the Rules of Procedure. It's not with the power of the parties. It's the show. What can we do? Please, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. We believe that the New Democracy proposal on unconstitutionalism is a pretext. It leaves the ground to unfold a confrontation without substance and to see what kind of Parliament we have. We have a bourgeois Parliament, there is no doubt about it, which defends and promotes the interests of monopolistic groups, implements the plans of the bourgeoisie and nothing more. [[This is where the IV Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over.]] And why is this controversy of no substance? Because both the government, the SYRIZA, and the ANELs, and the other opposition parties, are in agreement in substance. And what is the point of the matter? The essence of the issue is that it is the business teams who are responsible for television. Quantum in the information will continue to be made by the monopolistic groups. And that precisely these business groups, private television stations do nothing but reproduce the ideology of the bourgeoisie and operate, based on the interests of big capital and monopolistic groups. That is why they have taken possession of the slandering of the games, the slandering of all radical and subversive perceptions. So, then, the struggle becomes very clear about who will have the upper hand in information, which business groups will have the upper hand, and that is the essence. The definition of licences is made either through the House, as the government's amendment says, or is made by the EPP decision, it does not change this substance. The fact remains that the business groups are going to make the point in the information. Besides, at the bottom of the script, what does an independent authority mean in an urban state? Who is it determined by? The independent authority is designated by the parties, which are system managers. It is deeply dependent on the interests of capital and is independent of the desires and struggles of the people's strata. That's the way it's independent. That is why it is not going to change its character. So, from who he will be recommended and who will decide will not change the fact that they were in the past, it is done and will continue to take place under these circumstances and on the matter of the media an endless loss of political and economic security, between governments, the parties of the ruling class and the business groups. After all, there is always a need for two: the political staff and the financial staff to exist, and that is also guaranteed today. In this respect, therefore, we will not be taking part in the vote. We are abstaining from the vote on unconstitutionalism, not to legitimise the hypocrisy of the other parties in the opposition, that they are interested in the Constitution and its rules, for free and objective information, and not much more than the Government that it has the same concerns and questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty students and students and two of their teachers from the 1st Gymnasium of Pefkis, second section. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] So everyone doesn't raise their hand, I'll take it in turn. Mr. Maddash asks if he wants to speak, even though as a match it was Mr. Lappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u150	I will speak at the end, if necessary, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u151	Good. Mr Dendias has the floor, as a Parliamentary spokesman, for he was Mr Vorides as saying. You have the floor, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this particular issue of unconstitutionalism, raised by the New Democracy, I have heard analyzing two packages of arguments: a package of moral arguments and a set of legal arguments. First of all, we must start with the moral part of this debate, which is always extremely important. I would like to say to you that if there is a party in this Parliament who has the moral right to claim that he has been the victim of the interlocutory, this is the New Democracy's party, following the legislation of the main shareholder. [[Laughing and applause from the wing of SYRIZA]] I did not notice your reaction when, as a Member, the President of Parliament put it. I didn't notice. As I did not notice in 2007-2009 your voices of protest against the impeccable war that the Karamanlis Government accepted over every scientist. Then it seemed very nice to get involved with the voices of interlocutory, which were intended to cast our own government. Now, for some strange reason, you are reversing the moral argument without realizing that anyone who is involved in a period of stranding pays it too much later. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority you have no moral right to move us. We fought it, lost it and paid it very much. But the gap between our own and the complexion exists and will exist and we do not allow you - because I want to be clear - nor to imply that our actions, our motives or our legislative initiatives have anything to do with a space that we are facing over time. If you want, and if you want to prove that your purpose is not, as Mr Loverdos has accused you - I must say not without arguments - the control of the media field, but the resolution, because it is quite right - and we must all agree here - that the extension of licences, which were granted in the early 1990s, is not acceptable to any space - we are totally in agreement on this issue, is how we close this process within the framework of the Constitution - then I call on you to sign and vote today on our own amendment, which passes all these responsibilities to the National Radiovision Council. I pledge to you, in the name of the New Democracy and its Chief, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, that we shall immediately proceed to select the new members of the National Broadcasting Council, without any requirement of party placement, without a bazaar. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we do not demand two or three or five people or what goes on in our own area. In the case of the seven, nine volumes of cod, which you have spent the day before yesterday, in order to possibly satisfy different circumstances, we and we are not interested in them. We fully turn to choosing nine qualified Greeks or Greek women who can do their constitutional duty towards society and inform them. Read the amendment, it is very small, it says one thing only: these powers go, in accordance with Article 15(2) of the Constitution, to the National Television Council. I now come to the legal argument. Ladies and gentlemen, you obviously consider us to be either legally naive or legally illiterate, which is not the case. You are presenting decisions of the Council of State, apparently considering or that we have not seen them or that we have not read them or that we will not read what you are tabling. I am reading you on what you, in your greatest naivety before you have just presented. What does the decision 1901/2014 concerning the ERT of the Council of State say here? It says in verbatim, it refers to 15(2): ‘This check includes both licensing and operation’. Both the license. And I ask you: is licensing independent of the number of permits? If, in other words, the Minister, who here claims universal control of the media, decides that he must grant zero licences, does this not constitute control? I read you the other decision, which you had the naivety of presenting to us. Because, you know, when one comes to arbitraryness he gives the rope to the other to hang him. So I am reading you on the decision you referred to, on 3578/2010 of the full-time Council of State. It states: ‘The formation of such a right is left to the joint legislature, but it is under the conditions and limitations of Article 15(2) of the Constitution when it is settled’. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no legal basis for claiming a serious reason for the constitutionality of this provision. And because this is extremely sensitive and because our prolongation has suffered from this issue, I address the government majority and ask it to vote in favour of our amendment. To accept, obviously, the objection of unconstitutionalism, which Mr Vorides has put forward. If he wants to make it easier for a government majority, because we do not want anyone to be ridiculed. We want to regulate the landscape. That the Minister withdraws the manifestly unconstitutional amendment which he has brought here. To vote for our position - even if you wish, take it down, so that you do not endure our own selfishness - and stand together to regulate a landscape, which our side has tortured, but has mainly damaged society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u153	On the issue of unconstitutionalism, from the Golden Dawn Mr. Cassidy has already been placed. Mr Loverdos has already been placed by the Democratic Assent. From the Communist Party of Greece, a moment ago, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Although Mr Dannelis has been designated as a parliamentary representative for the bill, I will give the floor to Mr Theocharis. Then to Mr. Papachristopoulos. Then to Mr. Carras on the issue of unconstitutionality. He asked me for the floor, Mr Pappas, to answer. You are now asking for the floor, Mr Manda, and I will give it to you later, because I have given the floor to Mr. Theocharis. There is no denunciation under the Rules of Procedure on this matter. In the right way, we shall proceed to the vote on unconstitutionalism. I now tell you the whole plan of the meeting. Immediately afterwards, Mr Stathakis will take the floor to explain his amendment, and we will return to the normal 'class', entering into the draft law with special speakers, after the two rapporteurs have spoken. I would remind you that it's Friday and not start grumbling if we don't keep track of times. I won't remind you again. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. We have previously heard the President of Parliament, who is indeed aware of these issues, from making a brief speech by the SYRIZA, from describing the problem in black and does not offer any solution. We all agree on the problem. The broadcasting scenery is an anarchy. We went from a process of complete repression only with public television in an anarchist landscape which has harmed democracy and, as Mr Denkias said, and society. But how do you solve it? You're bringing in a perfect layout. Can you bring in a provision that says that the selection issues of the Directors-General will be resolved with a new bill by Mr. Bernardakis? Can we get another provision that says that insurance matters are regulated by bill? What will these provisions do? What do they offer? If the government wanted to do something, it should bring this amendment to the number of permits. Let's say it's four, five, fifteen or thirty. Then it would be an arrangement. It would then also be an anti-constitutional provision, as has already been analysed, because this competence from 15(2) has been explicitly conferred on the National Broadcasting Council. However, this provision does not do anything and therefore has no effect. But he's got a few words. And there is a legal authority - I am not a legal body - which says that no word of the laws is unnecessary. Why does it say that it is laid down by law? There's no reason. So do we start and raise issues on the limit of issues that the House can define by law? That's what's left of the Constitution. Only the Constitution can reduce Parliament's powers in relation to what it can legislate. Therefore, this provision is beginning to call into question the possibility of Parliament legislating and, as such, the words should be withdrawn that they are laid down by law. It should be written differently. In fact, of course, and a little on the substance, this provision is another of several provisions showing that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is allergy to the independent authorities. Yesterday we saw the photographic amendments which you withdrawn and you brought them back to us today in relation to the Competition Committee. We'll see you more specifically in the bill. They are photographic provisions - as Mr Spirtz has done with his own independent authorities - so that they comply with the ministerial decisions, otherwise it is a disciplinary misconduct and others, the terms of the members who are cut by law and the violation of the independent authorities in general. In this particular matter, where and in which country is the world defined by this procedure? Only Luxembourg does not have independent authorities. The European Parliament's office, Mr Gradin, has made an analysis of this issue. Everywhere these issues are defined by the independent authorities and it will be an originality and will put our country in the sights together with Hungary, along with Poland, on media control issues. And finally, why does this all need? Explain to the Greek people. What is the complexity of it? To cleaning up the number of licences. That's the basis of interlocutory. There is no reason for the legislator to set the permits. If we want to eliminate the conflict, as many licenses as possible from the means they transmit and as technology moves forward, so many must be given. If we want there to be no conflict, we need to set out specific conditions for granting the licence. Take - for example - that it cannot have more than one injurious use, that the licence is automatically withdrawn if a media has two injurious or three injurious uses in the series. Put specific obligations on how to borrow the media. That's the basis of interlocutory. There you should force the National Council to deal with these issues, so that it does not leave injurious media who can only win through relations with the political system and with governments. That's the only way to solve the complexion. If we are to determine that permits are four and they are being seized who will be the first in the Maximos Mansion. I said it yesterday and in the House. I read that managers and owners of bankrupt channels went to Maximos Palace. To discuss what? New permits? Let the government tell us what they talked about with Alter's people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u155	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u156	I'll be done. There's the complication, and that's where we're going, we're gonna hit it. The government can no longer convince the Greek people, only because there is one problem, that it is capable of solving it. Solve even a problem of the Greek people. We're waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Mada, do you want the floor now or in the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u158	Now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u159	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I can see the passion of this confrontation that is taking place in this House. But I want to say two things very soon. I would subscribe a lot of what Mr Dendias said and a lot of what Mr Theocharis said, but I would remind you of a few things. Firstly, Mr Tindemans, in the speeches by Mr Voridis and Mr Loverd, in addition to the issues of unconstitutionalism - you know that I am not a legal person and I do not want to refer to them - there was the point of infinite permits and market regulation. That's the whole point. I would like to remind Mr Theocharis, on all these very nice issues he has said, that many provisions of the bill - which has been debated with great adequacy, I think in a previous plenary of this House - the river has voted and supported them. And as he well knows, this whole process is being done by suggesting a similar scientific committee with arguments. Yes, to put as many valves as they need in order to hit the complexion, which no one says is there. I want to mention one last. Mr President, you were also present in two events at the Conference of Presidents, which I will be trying to convey, so that it is clear to all of us and to the Greek people. Before completing the process of election of the leader of the New Democracy, you remember, Mr President, at the Conference of Presidents - and it is recorded - that we had almost converged that we were going to set up the National Broadcasting Council. In fact, it was also said on the part of the Party of Officers and on the part of other parties: "We too have to propose persons so that the connection is representative and is reliable for what the National Radiovision Council has." At the end of Mr Mitsotakis' election procedure - and that is the truth - things have changed, Mr President. That's where the change took place. Why did all these very strong arguments not apply to the conference we had converged and were we really ready to set up the National Television Council? One week later the earth changed. What's changed? What's changed? So we have to understand this reality. I repeat that this reality is recorded in the procedures of the Conference of Parliament. Before the Greek people and before Parliament leave everything else and talk about the tampering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Mada, the man who presides should never be in love.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u162	I didn't ask you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u163	You addressed to me. I will not follow Mrs. Zoe Konstantopoulou's tactics. However, I would refer you to the Minutes, to read the two conditions I have set as a representative. One was that there should be no legislative initiative despite the Constitution. The second was, at the initiative of the President of Parliament - it is to his credit - that the Rules of Procedure of the House, which change the composition of the Conference of Presidents, should not be changed. I think, therefore, that the current cause of the New Democracy refers to the first condition. I'm stopping here because I don't want to take other people's steps. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. I do not wish, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that the Canadians did not pay either 2% or 20%. I do not want to remind you that Digea was killed by 18 million and had to collect more than 700 million of the state. I do not want to remind you now of the eight hundred official debts of the media, which I do not know what is going on and when they will be collected. I'm afraid some people think they've been made by virginity in this country and they've got the feeling that there's no memory in here. So I want to freshen this memory now. Do you remember who took the lead in the Stock Exchange, and if the canalarchs, when the Greeks' fortunes changed, did they have any gain from this story that was silenced? Do you remember how the Competition Committee told us clearly and clearly that for twenty years six specific companies were taking the public works and giving the others a scumbag? Did the canals get involved there? I say, do you remember? Do you remember the overpriced of the Olympic Games and who won, which had been budgeted for the 4 billion. And it's 40 billion.Huh? Were the canals involved with bankers and a small part of the civilian staff? Do you remember exactly what happened to the equipment? Who was calling about F16 and F17? Do you want me to remind you? Did the canalarchs, bankers and some of the civilian staff then have anything to do with this? I still want to remind you, not to hide behind our finger, - not just MPs, not just ministers, they were despised by the canalarchs - that their all-powerfulness was beastly. They didn't count on anything. They were meeting with Prime Ministers. And we all know in this Chamber how Andreas Papandreou went to the Special Court, how Constantine Mitsotakis was overrun, with respect, whether we disagree or agree with them. It was another job in society to change them, not some closed company of canalarchs, bankers and a portion of politicians. How did Mr. Simitis give the ring? How did Costas Karamanlis get forced? How, how, how! You may disagree, you may not like this proposed plan, because I have listened to extreme expressions: I heard about junta, about Stalinism, about apologies. Mercy! I just want to say one thing and then I'll be done. I won't have any more time. If it's unconstitutional or not, let's see. I'm only telling you one thing. One of us would expect here, just like we're about to run into our disagreements, with our rifts, with everything. But we! No one else! And I don't see it. I am sorry, because I see three parties in the Greek Parliament who have a different view and a highly provocative selective sensitivity. And forgive me a bad expression, but I will say it: "The dog where it eats, bark," they say in my village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u165	We shall close the positions on the unconstitutionality with Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras from the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, thank you. Before I came into the issue of unconstitutionalism, I wanted to note something. The most sacred moment in Parliament, because the Constitution goes beyond Parliament's power, is the debate on unconstitutionalism. In this particular case, I fear that it has turned into an impression battle. I do not want to comment on these points, although there was a glimpse to our side of a former channel...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u167	... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u168	Yes, Mr President, there was, but it was legally sold. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u169	Where'd that leave come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u170	The licence was issued directly by the law, the functioner, with the tolerance of the then government of PASOK, which allowed the operation of channels. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u171	Come on, Mr. Carras. You went into the trap, and you responded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u172	I will return, Mr President. A question of unconstitutionality was therefore raised as to whether or not the provision which comes from the government is in accordance with Article 15(2) of the Constitution. In this respect, I note the following. There is a provision which says that in the first implementation of the last law we have passed, the number of auctioned licences is laid down by law. What's the use of this device? A provision should be made to tell us that the licences are five, ten, twenty, fifty or not. Second matter. The evaluation report itself admits that the government has become self-sufficient because it says that this amendment is coming because the three of the four remaining members of the PSE have left with Article 55 of Law No.4339. He should then regulate the number of permits. Consequently, the provision in itself, in law, does not have any object. I will note something else, Mr President, before I speak about unconstitutionalism. It's inappropriate, too. For, on the one hand, it says that the number of licences will be fixed by law by the House, on the other hand, by referring to Mr von Wogau. 4339 - which the Union of Centres has adopted in accordance with its basic provisions - says this: 'The starting price per category of auction licence shall be determined by the PSE opinion'. So, and to vote today or not to vote and to say that it will come by law to determine the number of licences, how will it be initiated - because, the Government's argument is an accelerated tendering process - after it has made itself self-define that the starting price - which is the most important, there is no tender without a starting price - will be determined with the opinion of the PPE? I would particularly like to remind Mr Pappa that, when we discussed n. 4339, I was the one who insisted and even invoked the constitutionality of the provision, that, in addition to the simple opinion of the PSE, the PSE should be justified. Why, then, do we support unconstitutionality? As a mere grammar of the Constitution - much has been said - it tells us this: 'Control and enforcement of administrative sanctions fall within the exclusive competence of the PSE'. It's very clear. Let's go to the next paragraph. 'The direct control of the State... takes the form of the prior authorisation regime.' Therefore, since control is entrusted exclusively to the PSE, the control of the State which includes, as the Constitution says, the form of the prior authorisation regime and the issues raised before the authorisation are therefore assigned to the PSE. I will not say that the PSE's competence is exclusive and that the power of the government or of the House is laid down. But I will say that at least there must be an opinion from the PSE, as it has been adopted. This is where the opposition to the Constitution is found. Because, since the historic journey from the vote on the revision of the Constitution in 2001 to now, whole legislation has never left the PSE opinion, we have a question of constitutionality, even marginality. That is why there is no contrary case law to judge the matter, because the EPP's opinion has always been taken into account. However, there is the opposite case-law, which is of the Council of State and says this: 'An individual right to set up a radio and television station is not established but is subject to the conditions and conditions of Article 15(2) of the Constitution'. To sum up, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, control does not only involve issuing the licence and the next stages. It also presupposes the previous stage, according to an express constitutional wording, for the nature of the licence. Why do we say that? The number of licences is the crucial issue. We cannot proceed with licensing unless we have established the number of licences. And I refer to the other provision of the same article, Article 2 of Law No.4339, which deals with a map of frequencies. If we are talking about a frequency map - which exists and we know the range of frequencies and we know what is going on - then the government can no longer raise any objection to a minimum number, but that is the exclusive competence of the PSE, which publishes the notice and follows the tendering and licensing procedure. We therefore believe that this provision exceeds Article 15(2) because the number also stands at the previous stage of authorisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u173	But finish it, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u174	I'm done, Mr. President. That's my last word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u175	The parties' positions on the request for unconstitutionality submitted by the New Democracy have been completed. We close with the position of the relevant Minister, Mr Pappas, who has the same time as the parliamentary representatives. Here, Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u176	I have the feeling from the turn that we are now coming to talk about the substance. I also said at the Conference of Presidents that if anyone tries to auction ice in Eskimos in the middle of the North Pole, it is very likely that the auction will not go very well, because ice is a good item, which in this case, at this particular juncture, is in abundance. I have the feeling that this is the main evil of the New Democracy, that there should be an unlimited number of permits. Because all the proposals of supposedly brought forward are going to be that way. I imagine in the hole of your speech, Mr. Voridis, you said that there would never be a competition. I hope you don't mean it. I'll only make a note. Mr. Loverdo, there are phrases that follow politicians. For reasons of self-respect, I take the opportunity to invite you to withdraw Parliament's items. Because, you yourself - I am sure - if the speaker had extended night the licenses of the existing television channels on his own signature or had carried a night again, only by ministerial signature, on 31-12-2015, an amendment to continue the law of lawlessness would have no problem. And that personally grieves me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u177	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u178	I hope and believe that it does not characterise the fact that you have an obligation to represent here at the moment. Greece is the only country that has not made a competition. It was the present government that charged the charges for the use of frequencies. I cannot understand why we have absolutely no arguments on the other side. It was the current government that applied the Tax Act to advertising. I cannot understand again why a law adopted since 2010 was not applicable. Things are very simple. I think that two very serious different views have been reflected here: whether there should be a tender for licences or should not be an invitation to tender for licences. I am sorry to be in the unpleasant position to repeat for once that the power to conduct the tender is in the PSE. And, once again, I should like to oppose the criticism of a super-combatant and super-Canadian. And to say that if our practice had this purpose, at least some of the vulgar attacks that I personally, but also other ministers of government, we would at least have succeeded in preventing them. At least in vulgarity and vomiting we would have managed to put a brake on. And I am sorry - and I say this self-criticism, if you like - that this situation has not been corrected. If the constitutional legislature wanted to make the authorisation exclusive competence of the National Broadcasting Council, it would not place the authorisation in a different text than the administrative sanctions. I think that both the President of Parliament and Mr Lappas on behalf of SYRIZA have tabled a point of order, which breaks down all the objections to unconstitutionality. Potami - if I remember correctly - in the Conference of Presidents it was said that it is a positive step to move the decision on the number of permits to the dominant Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u179	With an enlarged majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u180	I hope that this will continue and be appreciated. I think, however, that those of Greek and Greek women who had the opportunity to attend today's debate have fully understood what the intentions of everyone in this House are. And this government's intention is to finally set order. I say this again to you all tons: it has both political will and determination and it will use the appropriate legal instruments to put an end to this shame which does not honor any of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much Mr. Pappa. The debate is closed. As I have heard the words 'with an enlarged majority', I would remind you that only the Constitution determines which issues of Parliament require an enlarged majority and that Parliament cannot decide for itself 'with or without an enlarged majority'. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the unconstitutionality of the bill has been completed. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionalism, i.e. that the bill is not in line with the Constitution, please rise. [[Responding to the objection]] Apparently the fewer were raised. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u183	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, we want it to be recorded in the Minutes that we said that the Communist Party of Greece is far from voting on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u185	Yes, but this is not a vote. The Rules of Procedure say 'I rise' or 'I rise'. "I'm abstaining" etc. may not be expressed by elevation or no elevation, only horizontally. Before continuing on the bill, I would remind you that two amendments had been withdrawn, one from Mr Stathakis and Mr Tsakalotos and one from Mr Paradise. In order to explain the amendments that have been retabled, I will give them the floor for three minutes, and I would ask them for brief reasons after the special speakers, if they wish - because I cannot oblige them - to put them on the amendments too, so that we can shorten the time and do not start another debate on the amendments. That is to say, the debate, which is also provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Mr Stathakis, you have the floor for three minutes to explain your amendment. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, quiet down there on the left, so that we can hear Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u186	And the seaside here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u187	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Statakis, start. If you start, the Chamber will relax.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled for the functioning of the Competition Committee is coming back. The main difference is that there is no article changing the current law, Law No 3959/2011. A number of articles relating to individual amendments to these articles have been withdrawn and in essence the amendment focuses on three main points which are a complement or a void of the law. Firstly, it is strengthened on the basis of the Commission's recent communications after 10 years of application of the Competition Law in the context of the Rules of Procedure and the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and stronger rules are introduced in the appointment of members and staff of the Competition Committee. That is to say, first of all, restrictions on the appointment and term of members of the Commission are being imposed. The members of the Commission shall introduce the incompatibility of the member of the Committee on Competition with blood kinship, stress to a second degree or a marital relationship with a person serving the Government, the Greek Parliament or the European Parliament. There is also a limit of self-righteous departure to seventy-three and seventy years for the President and the Vice-President respectively, which will apply from the next period and not from the present one. Secondly, the void of the 2011 Act is introduced, which referred to a Presidential Decree on the establishment of a disciplinary procedure. I repeat that the law then defined what the disciplinary board was. That remains as it is. He defined the way he was defined. It's still the same. The Presidential Decree would simply define the procedure. This process is now introduced into the law and complements this legal vacuum. Thirdly, a restriction is placed on the legal representation of the Competition Committee. The restrictions are self-evident. I would remind you that under the current legal framework, legal offices represented at the same time the Competition Committee and the company with which the Competition Committee was in dispute. This is forbidden by the new law. It is self-evident that we cannot represent both sides. At the same time, the procedures for protecting commercial secrets which, obviously, one learns and which, during the performance of their duties and for a period of four years after the end of their term of office, the members of the Commission cannot in any way use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u189	Mr Paradoxopoulos has the floor for three minutes to develop his own amendment. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. I can indeed be brief, because this is the second time I have spoken in this plenary to explain the substance of this amendment. As I said before, this is a regulation, which concerns the expropriations procedure. It does not introduce an innovation, but modifies in certain detail - to some extent and technically - the provision of Article 7(A) of the Code on Simplifications to make it more operational. This provision does in fact provide for an accelerated procedure for expropriations in the case of projects of great interest to the country. The composition of the court, which is responsible for making progress in the proceedings, is now changed by this regulation. Instead of the three-member appeals, the only appeal is provided for. There is also a speeding up of the relevant procedures and those relating to the conduct of the debate, but also with a view to abolishing the suspension. This regulation as a whole seeks to speed up the process in question. I do not think there has been any objection to its content, which simply helps speed up a process which is urgent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Paraskevi. We are now on the agenda again, recalling that both the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives of the parties can be placed on both the draft law and the amendments. The same will apply to speakers later. On behalf of the Golden Dawn, Evangelos Karakostas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u193	Wait a minute, Mr. Caracosta. What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u194	I would not like to interrupt Mr. Caracosta. I just wanted to ask if the Minister will then leave, Mr. Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Loverdos, it's not the President-in-Office's duty to answer you. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u196	If, like all the ministers, he argues and goes and because the procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u197	Yes, I understand what you mean, but it is not compulsory for this Minister to be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u198	It's not, of course, but because he's here and I don't want to interrupt Mr. Caracosta...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u199	Please don't waste time. Otherwise we'll be done tonight at 22:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u200	I have a right as a parliamentary representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u201	All right, I understand what you're saying, so the minister responsible listens. Uh, I can't give you an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u202	I have a right as a parliamentary representative to ask for the floor after it has been placed. I don't do it now because he's my colleague in the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Loverdo, excuse me. I made a proposal to the proposal I made, and I did not hear a copy of it. Now you're putting it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u204	No, no. Secondly, Mr Cremastinos presented today's procedure - there was Mr Voutsis here too - and we said that we would go according to how many would be registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u205	That's another matter, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u206	I want both the reason after my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u207	No, Mr. Loverdo. You'll finish the special speakers and then, if you want, answer Mr. Stathakis, you'll get part of your time. I made a suggestion, you don't want to hear it, but the special speakers won't cut them off for the third time. Please, Mr Karakosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on behalf of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, I would like to welcome the fair agricultural mobilisations. From there on, I found a New Democracy attempt to present itself as a supporter of the fair mobilisations of Greek farmers, but an attempt which the President of the New Democracy himself raised three days ago, who said from here the Stepma is not with the tractors. However, much more has been undone since August 2015 when the New Democracy passed and signed both hands the Left Memorandum. I'm coming to the bill now. Invoking an approved professor, who claims that the new fundamental law is the new national law by introducing elements that are not included in Directive 2009/188, but in earlier directives that had already been incorporated into the law of the country, this draft law cannot be regarded as a simple process of harmonisation with a directive of the European Union. The new private insurance bill puts - or will soon put tombstones in Greek insurance companies, changing the landscape in the insurance market. It allows the portfolio of an insurance company to be transferred to foreign companies, but not to subsidiaries of large companies operating here, since they are still treated like Greek companies. Furthermore, the translated directive has been added, without any obligation from this directive, to new points, in particular with regard to the reorganisation and the liquidation of insurance undertakings. Included in the draft law and matters relating in itself to the insurance contract, which should be matters of insurance law, n. 2496/1997. What is being done with the practice followed is to cause problems both legal and legal. So, for example, to find out what the real period of exercise of the right of withdrawal is, it should refer to two different laws. We shall refer specifically to Article 28. The old scheme provided that the transfer of insurance premiums issued by insurance undertakings established in Greece covering risks in Greece is allowed if the Community insurance undertaking to which the portfolio is transferred has its registered office or even its branch in Greece. With Article 28 of the bill, paragraph 2 changes this regime. And what now is predicted? Allowing the transfer of a portfolio to Community insurers which do not have an establishment in Greece - that is, they do not have a branch - is enough to work with the freedom to provide services. The free provision of services does not presuppose that the non-Greek Community insurance company also has an establishment in Greece, provided that it has notified the supervisory authority of its country of origin, that it intends to carry out insurance in another European country - in our case in Greece - and that this principle has not been excluded. Only in the case of the motor vehicle industry must have a special representative. The result is to make it difficult for the insured, who were insured in a insurance company established in Greece, on a number of issues, such as the necessary service provided by insurance companies and the access to insurance compensation if damage occurs and occurs. In other words, a person insured in a Greek insurance company, without being able to resist and without his partnership, with the transfer of the portfolio, will be able to be insured in an insurance company, for example in Finland, with the unequivocal difficulties that will arise due to distance, different language, communication, mentality, etc. A very unfavourable consequence of this change, however, which is of particular importance to the labour market in our country at this time, is to lose the possibility of employing the staff who served the old company with the transfer portfolio, due to the possibility that this may be done simply by the system of freedom to provide services. It should be noted that 'Solvency II' leaves this to the discretion of the national legislator. It was therefore the choice of the bill to make this unfavourable for insured persons and workers a change and not an obligation under European law. It is therefore obvious that the institutional capacity of the Greek state to create - and above all to implement - a framework of satisfactory and adequate control of insurance and reinsurance activities in Greece. It is also apparent and economically and politically complex that the tactics followed and still carried out by the rulers in respect of insurance and reinsurance undertakings. When events such as events have taken place with the insurance companies of Paul Psomiadis, it is safe to conclude that the post-population state has shown guilty silence and tolerance, encouraging various scientists to deceive Greek citizens who have lost their life savings. They made huge profits themselves, and, of course, the ruling political scene was making exchanges at economic and political level. A significant part of the proposed draft law is Chapter I on branches of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in third countries. The provision of Article 130 describes the procedure and the conditions under which the supervisory authority will decide on the authorisation of undertakings from third countries to operate in Greece. During today's difficult period, this business place is another area in which Greek businesses, which employ thousands of our Greek compatriots, aiming at their complete destruction and their replacement by foreign multinationals. In particular, exotic taxation, the prohibitive legal framework for the establishment and operation, the unfavourable economic situation of the Greeks, strict supervision, exotic controls are the day-to-day reality experienced by Greek insurance and reinsurance undertakings in contrast to foreigners, even after arrival and unknown economic levels, which, in fact, are not subject to all domestic provisions and to legal and tax arrangements, but in many cases their activities are acting on the basis of the law of their place of residence, such as, for example, the second paragraph of Article 147 where it states that insurance and reinsurance undertakings, established in other states, are allowed to provide insurance in Greece in the same way as they practice in their country of origin. In any case, conditions of unfair competition are created within the limits of Greek territory and always, of course, at the expense of Greek economic interests and Greek workers. Consequently, the lack of - deliberately, several times - of the State in the area of supervision of insurance undertakings results in cases where various experts, with the coverage and tolerance of the state, have deceived Greek citizens and have sometimes misled large and sometimes smaller sums of money, making them illegally rich to the detriment of the Greek people. Furthermore, the framework, which has already been formed and consolidated with the provisions of the proposed draft law, will complete the universal destruction of purely Greek insurance and reinsurance undertakings, leading to unemployment and impoverishment of even more Greeks, for the benefit of, of course, foreign multinationals, who will also take full control of this business sector in our country. That is why we are voting against this bill. With regard to the provision for the National Broadcasting Council, I would like to make a comment and say that this is clearly a political pragmatism, because the truth is this: the third political force of the country, the People's Association - Golden Dawn, is excluded from all television stations. Remind those who do not remember that it was a private channel official who came out and said by composting from his channel that his channel would not invite representatives of the Golden Dawn. You call that a democracy! But we don't have ears. It's not a democracy. It is a media dictatorship, which you have built in here and you are trying to support with a new, again party PSE, which is planned by the SYRIZA government. What, in fact, are you doing so the Greek people will know? This morning, here in Parliament, you are denouncing the intertwined television scenery and at night you are conspiring on the channels of intertwining, which you were supposed to have complained about a moment ago! For these reasons, there will be absolutely no consensus from the Golden Dawn Association. And there will be no consensus because this is the case: You, the left and right parties are with the channels of interlocutory and the pimps of information and the Golden Dawn are with the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u209	I call on Mr Ioannis Maniotis on behalf of the PASOK - DIMAR Democratic Assent. Until Mr Maniotis comes to Stepma, I would like to inform you that I have taken the initiative and instructed Parliament's services on the draft law, which has two hundred and seventy articles, irrespective of the roll-call vote: Parliamentary representatives and rapporteurs should be here and instead of answering for one - an article, which means that we will get to midnight, we should go with chapters and individual parties, so that we can finish sooner. The roll-calls are on the amendments, and that is where the work is easy. I hope there will be no objection. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am now addressing this House, not the Ministers of Government, who are absent. I want to start with the alphabet. We've been talking all this time, these hours...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u211	Mr Maniotis, if you are talking about the amendments in question, you are right. But as far as the draft law is concerned, Mr Alexiadis is present. He likes you to sit on the backs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u212	I saw him, Mr. President. Since I will start with the amendments, my position is not about the current Minister. I'll start with Mr. Poppa. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4339, 'Papa' provides for something that I will describe here and I would like to correct if I am wrong. It provides that the digital signal provider - today is DIGEA, tomorrow will be ERT - has the following technological capabilities, has obtained a licence: an license for four multipliers, where each multiplier can transmit up to twelve channels. This means that today the existing digital platform can support forty-eight channels - four times twelve - and tomorrow with a corresponding platform from ERT another forty-eight. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that we are discussing - the National Parliament - on a subject on which technology makes us 'last year'. If we add to this the broadcasting broadcast that can be made by the Internet - an unlimited number - the broadcasting of television signals, that is, channels, which can be made by satellite television - another limitless number - the broadcasting broadcasts that can be made by the SMART TVs that we have in our homes - another limitless number - why so badness of Mr. Papa for how much are the licenses for terrestrial broadcasting in Greece? Much more when we all know that if an interested person goes next door to Malta or Cyprus, he can, with 5000 euros get a license and emits to Greece and around the world. So, because things are extremely serious and the approach that comes to the vote in the National Parliament is deeply insulting the intelligence of the national Parliament and therefore of the Greek people who have sent us here, I would like to ask the simple question to the majority Members: do you accept, fellow Members and colleagues, what Mr Poppas asks us to do, namely, from the National Parliament, with zero technical knowledge, zero technology, to decide whether the permits of the channels of Greece that are emitted on the ground will be four - and now the courgetry - or six? Why six and not seven? The courgette continues. And why not two? And why not fifteen? It is therefore very clear what we have in front of us, Mr Pappas' escapade as a competent minister in the face of what he has undertaken and not lifted. It throws the ball at the National Parliament and says: 'I will recommend how many permits there will be and you will act as a swimming pool of Siloam, rinse me and give me the number of permits I will tell you'. Incomprehensible, unacceptable, logical Chaves, a Polish logic, which the European Union is now appointing the directors of the canals, the propaganda minister concerned, Orban logic in Hungary! Because some people have fought for human rights and because Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights requires that the states that have incorporated it, such as Greece, be able to have absolute pluralism in citizens' information, this provision cannot pass, cannot stand. Because I repeat that it empowers non-immature to decide a House - in the National Parliament - to take a decision on a completely technical matter, without having the expertise and the authority of the National Broadcasting Council. Consequently, this whole debate is or is called for in negotiation for aspiring canalarchs or challenge to others, "We decide and order who will live and who will not." I now come to Mr Stathakis' amendment. Mr Stathakis for the Committee on Competition told us something - and I would agree with him very much - that a member of an independent authority who decides to regulate the markets must have no relation - first, second, direct, stressful, any relationship - with a member of the national Parliament. For Mrs Kafantaris' husband, who has been appointed to a state-owned company, who does not only regulate, but manages the Greek State's money and who will decide or participate in the investment of the Greek state, does this not apply? Does it not bother you morally, ladies and gentlemen, to apply to someone? Now see the coincidence: What do we decide further? The chairman of the Committee on Competition will not be more than seventy-three years - as long as today is present - and the Vice-President will not be more than seventy - as long as today is present. Let's just say: we want to replace them. Yes, sir. But you say it directly, not with doves. Third point. It is a tragic irony of the political context. Yesterday, the government drowned in their chemical Greek farmers at AGROTICA and today comes to legislate by incorporating a Community directive on private insurance. The government with its insurance bill, which has erected the entire Greek society, cuts society in two, divides it into patrons and patrons. And because this retreat is going to follow SYRIZA for too many years, I don't know how many of you can withstand the retreat of the new generations that you're taking against those who are now receiving pensions. The insurance bill to withdraw it and invite the political forces of the place and society itself. Only withdrawal can remove what the government is responsible for and enable a genuinely serious debate and, of course, the Greeks to escape from the autism, from the "Catrugalia" bed, the front-run bed, in which it leads to a large part of the Greek society. I come to the fourth topic, which I also consider to be extremely important. It concerns, ladies and gentlemen, the shamefulness of our country that we have become Europe's black sheep on refugee issues. Skopje, Czechs, Slovaks, Poles, Danes, Austrians, everyone shows with finger Greece as the "black sheep" instead of showing Turkey. Are there political responsibilities in this regard? Does the government think that for its old tactic "let the children melt" when the civil protection minister at the time - their Minister - told them "will a million immigrants and refugees come, take measures" and the government's official policy was saying "let the children", on this whole policy, does anyone feel the need to apologize? What we will not, however, allow is that the country of Schengen should be a member of the European Union, that is to say, the Greek citizen should be allowed to move in the same way as the other European citizens in all the countries of the Union, and that right will not allow you to take it away from us. We will not allow you to let foreign ministers say 'create large camps for five hundred thousand refugees'. You don't have the right. Mrs Générale has asked the Prime Minister for a meeting on this matter. I think it has the duty of the Prime Minister to see Mrs. Genemata and any other political leader asking for an appointment. Your issues go beyond you. It is far beyond your responsibilities and the length of your government, any government. They go to the core of national issues. You have no right to treat them as if they were current issues. I shall end, Mr President, by referring to the very bill that we are discussing incorporating the directive. We have said from the outset that we are positive about integrating and modernising the institutional framework for private insurance. One of the reasons why we are also positive - apart from the fact that Pylon 1 provides for capital adequacy by insurance companies - is that Pylon 2 provides for personal responsibilities to the boards of directors of companies, if they do not do their job well, as does Pylon 3 who finds us fully ideologically and politically in agreement, which obliges companies to account for their society and their customers, to account for and make all their information public. I would remind you that with at least eight years' delay Europe is legislating, after we have passed the mortgage crisis in the United States and Greece is still paying for this crisis and our own mistakes. Europe is slowing down, but it is now integrating this directive. However, we can look into the eyes of anyone, because we first set the example as Greek public, as a government, so that all the decisions of the ministers and the Secretary-General can be posted on the Internet, and much more so all decisions relating to the management of public money. So because - and I close with this - things go far beyond those who have been formally or even institutionally entrusted with their management, I would also like the rapporteur for the Democratic Independence to call on the Prime Minister and the Government to realise the criticalness of the national context and, above all, to realise that, with lies and communications tactics, this place can no longer be run. After avoiding "the soul in the mouth" GREXIT, I find it incomprehensible that we should now discuss throwing us out of Schengen and tomorrow asking us, he says, in return for the possible reduction in the debt of a million immigrants. That's not going through! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational program "1974- The restoration of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirty one student and two students and two educational attendants from the 53rd General High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before I give the floor to you too, Mr Bardalis, because an amendment was tabled by Mr Toska, I will give him three minutes to explain it so that you can all be on it as well. Mr. Toska, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr President. It is known that the minimum time for the completion of the competitive procedures and for the provision of essential items that are needed in the daily life of the Greek Police, such as rubber for patrols, olive oil and fuels or cleaning issues in police departments, is at best - which has actually been shown not to be enough time - five to six months. Basically, it takes more than time to complete these procedures. However, the day-to-day operation of the police departments, the maintenance of the airworthiness of the Greek police engine fleet, the need to avoid immobilisation, because of course police problems do not wait until the competitive procedures are over, they do not allow us to reassurance. That is why, taking into account the geographical fragmentation that exists - because the same cleanliness workshop in Kastelorizo cannot be found in Evros as well and the various needs are met and covered in a grouped manner - we are bringing this amendment today. For a limited period of time and until other procedures are in place by the Ministry of Development to provide and cover basic needs up to EUR 60,000 by means of a rough tender and up to EUR 20,000 by delegation, in order to cover such needs and, furthermore, to meet the needs of the refugees in the pre-Accession centres by such more flexible procedures, we are bringing this amendment precisely to cover such cases absolutely necessary for the day-to-day operation of the police. For this reason, Mr President, we have had this amendment exceptionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Toska and I thank you. I took a rough look at her. I think I'm not wrong, but watch it. I think that the number of '20,000' and '60,000' should go down to the partitions and it should all come out with 20,000 and 60,000. There must be a paragraph in there that limits the number of 20,000 and 60,000. I may not have seen it. Look at it until it's time to vote. I think he'll be safer, because at least in principle, at least, I think you're right. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister is absent, Mr Tsakalotos, but in his position he argued that the specific draft law that we are discussing does not clearly pave the way does not strengthen private insurance companies. But he forgot to tell us that at the same time you are demolishing social security, gradually increasing state-of-the-job freedom from participation, abolishing the social character of insurance, and to some extent, this attack is evolving in all the countries of the European Union. At the same time, you are both interested in both the government and the European Union as a whole in the framework of the operation of insurance companies. Gentlemen of the government, it goes very well to keep all the insurance laws of the New Democracy and PASOK, to prepare a new slaughter with a wild axe in subsidiary and national pensions - a poorhouse and, on the other hand, to say that you are not opening the road to private insurance. In our view, it is no coincidence that both of us are developing this particular period. In simple terms, what do you say to the people? Look at you, do the thing yourself. We give another blow to social security, and if you want to ensure something in old age to be able to live a bit decently, you have to run on private-security crows. So, in this way, you're turning the street to private insurance groups. Besides, the private insurance cords are propagandaing that their system is now safe and sound and that the insured must not be afraid to lose his money. Of course, he says it to attract 'customers'. Within introductory terms the word, because as clients, they see the insured. That's why insurance companies are pressing for reforms. That is why they agree with this reform of the Government for socio-security. That is why they have no objections to the ratification of the European Union directive, which we are discussing today. Why? Because the market is opening even further in the multinational sizes of insurance. The dominant element of the directive is the stricter capital requirements for insurance companies. The Government and the other parties say that, with this stricterisation of the framework, but also with the strengthening of supervisory control, the insured will benefit the people and, therefore, this is also the objective of the directive we are debating, namely Solvency II. They don't have that pain. After all, private business groups will not give a pension as what they provide is a financial product. Any amount from the premium paid by the people's families to insurance will depend on the market, on the visible risk - if not on the certainty - not even the money they gave at the end, as was the case with the 'SPA FORE' and dozens of other 'ordinary' cases in the countries of the European Union. The Minister gave characteristic examples both from the United States and Canada and from the European Union for 'rules' that have evolved in recent years. Then one will wonder why there is so much fuss. Ladies and gentlemen, as early as 2009, the European Union voted for Solvency II Directive on the taking up and pursuit of insurance and reinsurance activities. The structured reflection of the European Union and its governments on social security rights in all Member States of the European Union and compromises within the European Union led to the application of this Directive from 1-1-2016, despite the fact that it had been voted on in 2009. In our view, the logic of private insurance aid is not an accidental option. On the contrary, it is a key political direction of the European Union, because it serves its central task, namely to ensure the competitiveness of monopolistic groups. For corporate groups, the commercialisation of the insurance can be a field of capital placement, giving a temporary way out of overcompensation. On the one hand, premiums are being capitalised and exploited for capitalist investment, on the other, state and employers are being exempted from employers' contributions and, therefore, labour power is cheaper, and capitalist investment is also being strengthened on the other. The second side of the issue, on which the other parties close their eyes and do not say a word, is the following: The bill is actually dealing with insurance as a financial product. The stricter capital requirements for insurance companies lead mathematically to takeovers and mergers from large groups in the sector, i.e. lead to greater concentration and concentration of capital, so that they can respond to the conditions of increased customers supplying the dissolution of social security systems across the European Union. In order to facilitate this concentration, all restrictions on the movement of capital and their free establishment in the countries of the European Union, irrespective of their country of origin, are lifted, and the single Euro-Union licence for all enterprises of the kind is established and the powers of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Regulatory Authority are strengthened. That's only what the communists who use a "wood" language say, as you say? I'll tell you what "KATHMERINI" writes in its new year's card, January 1, 2016. Of course, we cannot support the positions of the Communist Party of Greece. It therefore states “Strict reclassifications on the insurance market are due in 2016 to the application of the new Solvency II Directive”. Below it says: "They mark the sovereignty of multinational companies that have higher capital and are able to face the challenges of the new year from a position of validity. In addition, developments in the insurance market are imposed and developments in the insurance market are imposed.' At the time we had the transfer of the life portfolio of INTERNATIONAL LIFE to another insurance company. There is an agreement to sell the "ATE Insurance" to the German "ERGO" group, which has certainly not been completed, but is in the process of its completion. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. In Greece, that is to say, developments call for the relevant monopolies, in consultation with the current and previous governments, to be prepared for a long time. Banking companies present almost exclusively life and pension portfolios. Recapitalisations, which were linked to the recapitalisation of the banks, are carried out with further concentration in the industry. According to the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Union, financial institutions in the country will be invited to transfer their insurance portfolios to private investors. But why does the European Union go in this direction? What concerns them, above all, is the growth of the economy and attracting investment. To this end, it seeks alternative sources of financing for long-term investments, in addition to bank lending. He knows that by 2020, investment will need to be made for this purpose over 2 trillion euros. In view of the fact that these investments cannot be financed by the public sector, but also by banks, the need to attract private investment and not by the long term is imperative. They are looking for funds that are found in institutional investors, such as life insurance and pension funds. So what will be the institutional framework governing insurance companies is important for choosing their placement in long-term investments, such as investments, for example, in infrastructure projects. The previous legislative framework in Solvency I, i.e. the previous directive of the European Union, was an obstacle to such investments because of increased capital requirements resulting from these investments. Many small companies, namely, in the industry, mean small, dispersed funds, which cannot be easily exploited for investments they need at the moment. It is estimated that if insurance companies and pension funds increase their investment in infrastructure by 0.5% of their total assets - a target that seems feasible - this would mean an additional investment of over 20 billion. Therefore, the decision by the institutional investors on whether or not they invest has a huge impact on the economy. That is why the European Commission has decided to amend this legislative framework. This directive for the first time introduces the concept of eligible investments in infrastructure. What is being promoted at both European and national level, therefore, is to stimulate investment in infrastructure projects. That's why we say you're continuing from where the previous people stopped. That is why we say that the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence serves the same interests, the interests of big capital. Because at the same time as promoting crime against the social security rights of workers, you are adapting to Greek legislation the Solvency II Directive to combine the complete demolition of the social security system with its delivery to business groups. You wide open the way to monopolies that are active in the private insurance sector and related industries, in a sector that has always considered a golden field of profitability. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question that all parties must answer: Insurance is a commodity or is it a right? How one responds to this question shows and who one is with. You all support private insurance and, indeed, as a third pillar with a complementary role to social security. You claim that you will put rules and such rules in this regard are also in force under the Solvency II Directive. However, the commercialisation of the insurance is intended to shield the profitability of the capital. It minimizes social spending by loading it on the workers' backs, abolishes the universality of insurance and anyone who has, can buy. Finally, it leads to a failure to meet the combined needs of workers and people's families. For all these reasons, the Communist Party of Greece will vote against this draft law. As far as the amendment on television licences is concerned - although, in substance, my colleague, Mr Karathanasopoulos, referred to in the debate on the non-constitutionality of this amendment - I would like to say the following: with this amendment you want to speed up the implementation of the law granting television licences by changing the provisions that you have adopted three months ago. I would remind the JRC that we have criticised this law, because unlike the government's priorities for transparency and objective information, the law does not guarantee any of this. The law essentially aims to make a redistribution of TV pie and buy into old fireplaces, old and new aspiring channel owners. Of course, the government is not, in our view, seeking to create a more television-friendly landscape in it and in its anti-popular work. However, this landscape will certainly not be friendly to the people and its right to information and to all its rights, as is the current landscape. Because, on one hand and on the other hand, the task of information will be done by the big businessmen, the big capital, the owners of the channels. And that's the political thing. As far as the amendments are concerned, I should just like to say a word. As far as the amendment relating to expropriations is concerned, we are firmly opposed. You want to help the big chapter, unlock his hands, that is. As far as the amendment concerning the Competition Committee is concerned, we are also 'in favour'. Competition is a problem of big capital and in my village they say that "when buffaloes fight, they pay the frogs". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I will make a proposal to you to think about it and put it in place at approximately 15 a.m., although I have already been answered by three, four parties. But there is still an objection on the part of the Democratic Alliance. There are three special speakers left. Then and if they want to speak - and I suppose everyone will - then the parliamentary representatives of the parties are in turn. My proposal therefore is that all five first speakers, one of each party, should speak, because the rest of the parties anyway, until the end of the twentieth speaker, have not appointed a speaker, so they do not have a 'legal interest' to be asked. Then I propose or stop to the first five speakers, which means, at 16.00, that we begin the roll-call votes and colleagues in the region move faster so that they do not run for a change of tickets, or if the Democratic Assent insists on its refusal, that the issue be resolved democratically. This means that one - a party will be asked on the basis of the statement made by the parliamentary representative and the decision will be taken by a majority. Don't answer me now. Think about it and later you can place. Mr Theocharis has the floor, who, as I see, is not in the Chamber. Please let him know. I'm not going to erase him now, because he's lucky and Mr. Georgiadis can take the floor. So, you talk faster, but you save Mr. Georgiadis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u218	The 'better' is relative, Mr President, because we have a lot to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u219	Make it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u220	Yeah, that's what I meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u221	Okay, that's fine, Mr. President. Besides, I may find myself in a similar case in the future. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening! "Good morning" I had written at first, but it has been too late, so now we say "good evening". In my speech today, I should like to raise two points. One is 'Solvency' and the other is the PSE amendment. I shall start with the issue of 'Solvency', where we really need to listen to the insurance companies on the one hand, on the other hand, we also need to have a safeguard for the interests of those insured in the sector. Before becoming a government, you have shown a very great zeal in defending social groups and branches. The fact is, however, that the real nature of each government seems when it has power in its hands. And it seemed in the worst way, a way of authoritarian and unresolved. And I'll be a little more specific. The deadline for the application of these Community directives to our domestic law expired last March. The European Commission had already explicitly demanded the application of these European rules in the insurance sector. We have been warned many times that if Greece does not comply directly, then the European Commission can refer the matter to the competent court of the European Union. Our country had failed to transpose the Community directive 'Solvency II' by Law 138/2009 and the Directive 'Omnibus II' by n. Date of birth: 51/2014. The debate that took place in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs raised various outstanding issues which deserve our attention. For example, companies that can take over and be transferred to them must be located in Greece, so that we can protect jobs on the one hand and the insured on the other. The opposite is capable of causing a variety of problems. Also, for Article 44, which talks about reporting from the Bank of Greece to various institutions, you should take into account the fact that the Bank of Greece should also provide information to social security institutions. It is true that having the full details from the Bank of Greece will also help the Audit Committee through its operation at the relevant social security institution. Another question which concerns a social dimension, which at least by name you say you are being cut, is Article 229, which provides for the suspension of payments by the clearer, which should not concern workers and workers who have been hired a job, because the opposite would be antisocial and, we could say, inhumane. Furthermore, the general supervisory rules referred to in the draft law in Articles 19 to 28 seem to be at least essential and demanding. However, we must point out that their implementation can prove to be quite problematic. The supervisory authority shall appear on the basis of a draft law that gains unlimited access even to the technical means available to insurance undertakings, as referred to in Article 20, paragraph 3 and several paragraphs. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I am sorry, Mr President, but the turbulence does not help me to concentrate and speak. If you want, just quiet down from everyone who's here. We're few, and whoever talks sounds very much. Thank you. Because what I have mentioned is the generic and does not divide precisely where the concept of supervision and control ends, what concerns us is the extent of interventionism in a private enterprise. The private trader must be able to safeguard legitimate and fair interests in relation to possible arbitrariness of the supervisory authority. That is why we must also pay particular attention to the internal potential of the supervisory authority, which will investigate the control itself, but also the process itself. At the same time, Article 24 includes, from insurance and reinsurance companies, the provision of vast amounts of data to the supervisory authority. On this point we must stress the need for consistent, prudent and reliable management of this data. We must verify that this data will not be leaked in any way. And we say this because you have a history and an affluent attitude to such misconduct and I will mention some of them, such as: The intercepting of conversations with Eurogroup, the attempts to hack into the TAXISnet and the rumours about the hacking of the Bank of Greece. Therefore, the concept of the supervisory authority may appear to all of us to be of increased prestige, but we must not forget that these agencies work and people and often the temptations vary. This draft law, admittedly, bears several burdens on existing undertakings in the sector at a number of additional costs and much more on a work permit. It, however, raises the standards for both internal governance and the growth of the funds needed and the transparency that it needs. The fact is that the industry and the representatives believe it is worth some sacrifices, because it will increase the credibility of the insurance market. This, however, gives no white check of arbitrariness and requires special attention. As we have put it in committee, we are positive about this bill and we hope that it will work properly afterwards. Let us now move on to the infamous amendment tabled for the PSE. I'm sorry to say it, but everyone in here is protesting, and right now you want to close the channels, every day you go out on them. And we will note that the legislation on the new landscape in the media demonstrates, on the part of the Government, an unprecedented hindrance to the manipulation of Greek society. On the pretext that several SMEs today are economically injurious, the government finds the opportunity to restrict freedom of expression. This is a characteristic of authoritarianism and totalitarianism and is not in line with the principles and values of Western civilisation, let alone the European Union. First of all, the permissible number of media in the whole of Greece is unacceptable to be defined unilaterally by the Government, whether it is a governmental parliamentary majority or a minister. In an ideal case, if the government's leaders had been relieved of these authoritarian tendencies, the number of instruments should be regulated by the market itself. The government has no right to intervene in such a way and to such an extent in informing the citizen. Your only incentive is to limit the media to a minimum the number of these and clearly the establishment of a new propaganda regime. Such a regime occurs on a global scale only in countries in the so-called third world or in specific isolated regimes with directed propaganda. I have a non paper, which is not a valid source, but I will be tabling it in the Minutes, and I would like to pay attention to the table indicating the number of national channels and regional channels in European countries. Bulgaria: 10 national channels, five regional channels. France: thirty-six national channels and forty-nine regional channels. Germany: forty-four national channels, two hundred and thirty-two regional channels. And if you tell me that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u222	That's not true. It's not true, we tell you, at least at national...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u223	I'll testify and you can see his solvency. I repeat that it is non-documentary, so I also reserve it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You will tell me that France and Germany are large countries and may technologically have better support than we do. From Romania, however, with ninety-four national networks and forty-five regionals, I do not think we have anything to be jealous of. I am continuing: with MEGA, "ANTENNA", "ALPHA", "STAR", "SKAI", "MAKEDONIA TV" to broadcast all over the world, the reports by Minister Papa to less than five licenses obviously and not to a finite spectrum of frequencies. There is no technical problem, there is obviously another issue. On the basis of the existing situation, as has been shaped, we do not accept the number of permits to pass through the House. It is not the government's job to deal with such matters. Nor technocratic competence has the relevant knowledge required. The control of the number of licences, since it must be done from somewhere, should always be carried out through an independent authority with full transparency procedures. Whether this principle is to be called the National Broadcasting Council or otherwise, this is your issue. The essential thing is that this principle should include, with the right to vote, special people on the instruments, regardless of party line and political views. It must not be a political question of the number of channels and licences, and it must be politically discoloured. The President of the House, Voutsi, referred to a cross-party consensus on the election of members of the board of directors of the National Broadcasting Council. And as those who constantly refuse to accept it have to assume their responsibilities. Here there is a mismatch of words and works, and that is, of course, something that this government is used to. Through the prediction that the members of the PSE are appointed by an initial majority of 4/5 and, as Mrs Asmakopoulou rightly rightly said, no one dares to bring the 4/5 into Parliament, not even 3/5 would say - they are appointed by a qualified majority through the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament, and that practically means that in itself the New Democracy could block any legitimate definition of members. This is a common framework of opposition tactics, and that is what we have systematically noticed in the past. In the context of Mr. Tsipras' meeting with the Chief of Officerial Responsibility, he told the Prime Minister that these methods threaten the government to have the fate of the Polish Government, which the Commission has initiated on this matter. We believe that this is absolutely unlikely to happen in our case, and it is neither the first nor the last time that the European Union will intervene to save the situation against the authoritarian methods of this Government. We are really awkward in supporting selfish things towards such manifested state arbitrary. Apart from that, the financial pretext you claim does not stand still and I will explain why. If you close the existing stations, you must not in any way expect the repayment of the already owed either to the public or to the funds or to the banks. That is why the proposal that we have made for us is self-evident, that is to say, that there should be regulation in the existing instruments so that they can meet their obligations. The knife in these cases never helped. That is what common sense demands for a government that wants revenue, as you claim. The closure of the existing Instruments by the method of sudden death can only be on your side. In addition, you're supposed to be interested in unemployment. In the unemployment index we are in the last quadrant - worse quadrant, I can say - of the world. With the method of sudden death on existing channels, thousands of directly and indirectly involved workers in the media area will lose their jobs. And don't tell me that they will be absorbed by the new channels that will be created, as Mr Pappas said, because that is what you understand is utopia. They can't be fired from a channel and have a contract at the next station you're going to create. I'm sure each channel will want its own side to serve its own party army and its own children. At a time when the Greek market is withstanding, for example, from four global licenses, please tell me a reasonable reason why we should limit this entrepreneurship, tell me one reason why we should increase unemployment further. But I forgot. Some 8 million will have to be entered into the national currency from the auction of each licence, because they will not be entered as investment funds and they will be the money that you promised in the Commission and the lenders from this project. Since some entrepreneurs have proved economically inconsistent during the previous period, is this capable of bringing us to the conclusion that the new media entrepreneurs will not behave in the same way? Clearly not. What is needed is sensible and intelligent legislation and not repression. Only politically speaking smells us in the framework of propaganda, and that is why the final decision on the number of licences to go to the independent authority is appalling. If you have the government majority to decide, on a matter that is a matter for the citizens and the free market, then to apply it to other aspects of entrepreneurship, to end up a Soviet regime in the years 2016 and become Europe's laughter. To define, on a political basis here in Parliament, a maximum number of publishing houses, a maximum number of private educational establishments, a maximum number of websites. The example of China with limited access even to the Internet sounds a little attractive to me, it seems to me, to you. Go on, then, glorify the country gloriously, do your trick and start the propaganda as a lasting desperate effort to remain in power. This time, things will not come according to your own plans. The Greek citizens, you see, recently show low levels of tolerance in hay. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will not get far. Just give me one or two minutes, please. That is why you want, as it seems, to impose on them the so-called hay by means of full arbitrary intervention on the media. As far as we can, we will not let that happen. Although our President, Vassilis Leventis, has been abused by the traditional mass media in the past, we do not want to avenge them, and this is because it concerns thousands of workers in the industry, but above all the country's own interests. A common mortal mind would say that the Central Association would like to close all these channels, which for so many years have undermined it. No, we do not deal with politics, with stupid coalitions and opportunistic attitudes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u224	We don't either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u225	I don't see that. You're going to create a new party army.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Georgiadis, don't answer. Complete, because we're going to shorten time and not to prolong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u227	Yes, Mr President, I will say one final sentence and conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u228	Two minutes you've spoken more. I'll give you another half.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much. We true and genuine centers, prove ourselves without ideologies and without involvement in public or private interests. We are not in favour of anyone, beyond the public interest and real democracy. We are therefore voting against this amendment and thank you very much for your time and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Alexiadis has a piece of legislation to tell us. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u231	I'd like to make a legal improvement. At the end of paragraph 1 of Article 225 of the draft law, the following subparagraph shall be added: ‘In portfolio transfers carried out by insurance undertakings in which an insurance manager has been appointed does not apply Article 479 of the Civil Code’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u232	I would ask that it be taken over and distributed to the ladies and gentlemen of the House. Mr Theocharis has the floor. I don't see Mr. Kammenos, he might be delayed. Mr Leventis has asked for the floor, and I would ask the President of the Association of Centres, Mr Leventis, to be informed that after Mr Theocharis, if he so wishes, he will be asked to speak. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to plenary today to discuss the incorporation of Solvency II in Greek. Of course, and in this bill you have not forgotten bad habits, to introduce unnecessary amendments, and in this particular case, an amendment that is incomplete. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you have put your hands on all the independent authorities. Your culture of independence of administration is clearly mirrored in this practice. Since the first month, of the "first time left", Mr. Spirtz deported the SETT from responsibilities and wanted to terrorize, through disciplinary interventions, the members of the Authority responsible for telecommunications and the digital network provider. Mr Katrugalos then attempted by changing age limits to expel unlike the government members of the AACC. By intervention from the Anti-Population, with our own intervention, it has changed the law at the last minute so that it does not occupy members who are now serving to change age limits. The Minister did the unrelated, when we pointed out to him that the provision would lead to the persecution of members of the service. Colonel Katrugalos did not know that an exception should be made. We and the whole of the Opposition pointed it out to him. The other day, Mr Papapas increased the members of the National Broadcasting Council "to deal with increased responsibilities", as the explanatory statement said. To haggle appointments with opposition parties. The Minister himself told us that the parties were "increased, so the members of the National Broadcasting Council must also be increased". The day before yesterday, you have brought us an amendment and we are discussing it today, which laid down the incompatibility of the spouses of Members and volunteers with the competition committee, which you are bringing again today. World originality, incompatibility with parliamentarian affinity, as Members of the Competition Committee appoint! You do not, however, have a problem with bringing laws with which MPs themselves and their husbands are recruited as a result of the law. You are limiting the term of office of the Director-General and the heads of staff, obviously because you want to make the changes immediately. What's your hurry? Shall we go to an election? Why this rush? We are constantly seeing various amendments and they all have in February, March, their limit. Is something wrong? Tell the Greek people. There are three "photographic" forecasts to get rid of the bureau and a series of managers. So you intervene to control the administrative hierarchy. It is a raw government intervention to an in name now independent authority. There is already an article in the most recent competition magazine, the GLOBAL COMPETION REVIEW, which accuses the Government and says that it spoke with the Competition Committee which closely monitors the matter. Watch out, the times are hard. Furthermore, you are bringing in another regulation - which we discussed earlier the constitutionality - with one aim alone, the communication management of the issue of television licences and the subordinate powers of the Minister. You are bringing the law, which says that another law will define the number of licences, which when it comes to the House - this number of licences - will be unconstitutional, as the powers of control of SMEs are given directly by the Constitution to the PSE - Article 15(2) - and expressly laid down in the constitutional provision, as the exclusive responsibility and competence of the PSE. Authorisations are also one of the forms of control. It's part of the concept of control. There's nothing else to be licensed. It's control. It is also defined by the Constitution. So we've got a bypass from the PSE. What if these licenses are cancelled by the CCC? What serious businessman would invest money for a license that might be cancelled tomorrow, tomorrow? Or is that what you want to create hostage channels? Ladies and gentlemen, the transaction, and with this amendment, remains at the Minister's table rather than the minister responsible for the EPP. And the fixing of the price remains with the Minister. It is even worse because the Minister does not take responsibility for his decision but uses majority Members to sign behind closed doors and you to sanctify his signatures. It is characteristic of governance that the inefficiency that we see in all the first-line issues. And these provisions will not solve anything, as you have solved nothing at all. What do we see in insurance? Lack of effectiveness and new ideas, inaccurate, populism and injustices. You're not bringing a new idea. You took the Laws of Loverdus, Kutrumanis and Brussi and you simply abolished the transitional provisions. That's what we knew. There is already the law and you are simply abolishing the transitional provisions. You added, of course, one thing that is right, the integration of the funds, but that already existed in the commitments of the debates. You say inaccurate when you say that the Stock Exchange scandal and the PSI are to blame for the funds. You want a public distribution system, without reserves, and you say that the 'haircut' of the reserves is what has destroyed it. Incomprehensible things! I'm presenting an article here according to which Mr. Hillopoulos makes all the calculations. It shows that if the funds invested in the German government's positive bonds in 1995 and thus escaped both the PSI and the Exchange scandal and the structured bonds, the reserves today would be EUR 20.6 billion. And in fact how much was it? It was 20 billion euros. That is EUR 600 million difference. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If the Greek funds did not invest in the Greek Stock Exchange and elsewhere, but only in German bonds, we would only earn EUR 600 million over the years, that is, pensions for a week.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u234	Who's responsible?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u235	No one's responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u236	Anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u237	No one is responsible, because you do not understand what I am saying to you. I tell you that if these scandals were not done, we would still have the same money in the fund reserves. Same. The difference is 600 million. A week's pensions all over. You continue to the well-known trample of Postpopulation: populism. What's populism? To sit on a table all the social groups and because we do not like the bill to send it to anyone who does not participate in the debate: the unemployed, the unborn, the migrant. Is that justice? Is that what you define? Or is it fair to cut off the salaries of those who are three years away from retirement so that those who are now retired are not cut off? And when the people in three years retired to receive a lesser pension than they supported in these three years by cutting their wages? Are these people gonna pay twice? It won't solve the insurance problem like that. You're just kicking the problem two to three years until the next reform. With such short-sighted approaches in 2015, you brought the country to the edge of exiting the Eurozone. With a lot of trouble and unbelievable sacrifices, particularly among the citizens, but also of all democratic parliamentary forces, we have not come out. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] We are coming again this year on 28 January with a mandate from the Commission either to comply, to assemble our borders, or to leave the Schengen area for at least two years. We're really not gonna be quiet if we don't get out of somewhere. And do you not realize that all these extreme voices against us in Europe cannot be dubbed because you, the rulers, have taken them a step? They unite your inability in their own interests and are capable of expelling us. The countries that have set special rules in Schengen - which expire on 13 May for Germany, for Austria at this time - must prove that there is an incapacity in one country, so that they can extend these rules to their borders, the exceptions. And we give them the opportunity to do so. We shouldn't do that. We must not now remind ourselves of the threats of jihadists, which we will send to them the financial compensation to keep migrants and refugees from Greece. Here, where do they end up? They conclude in FINANCIAL TIMES' provocative articles that we will be "driving" the debt if we keep immigrants in our country. That is what the extremists are listening to and want to close Europe's borders and not to be in the Aegean but to be in Skopje. At least with the incorporation of the Solventy II directive, solid foundations are set for the restructuring of the insurance market, which in recent years has been facing thirty-nine companies in liquidation. It is crucial that it finally enters a multi-stakeholder insurance market, so that we can avoid phenomena in the future depending on the case of the shield, which has been afflicting the insured for more than six years. In this case, I also asked a timely question, to which the Minister did not reply by invoking the first time, for his absence abroad, while just yesterday's workload. Thus, we do not solve the hundreds of eighty thousand insured persons, who have not been included in the list of beneficiaries, nor those who have not been able to make an appeal, nor have they been able to make an eighty-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three. And, of course, we are not giving a solution to all the beneficiaries who have been waiting for six years to be compensated for the liquidation and the guarantee fund of life. We are aware of and respectful, Minister, of the deserving programme, but at some point you must account for and solve any problems. The directive we are debating today sets new, modern capital adequacy and corporate governance rules for insurance companies. It regulates a number of issues on the solvency of the participants in the insurance market, based on three pillars: capital adequacy, publicity and transparency rules, corporate governance. Of course, what the directive cannot regulate is a series of objective difficulties created by the adventure of the Greek economy in recent years, with particular emphasis on the time spent. The systemic risks of the Greek economy launched by SYRIZA and the capital controls imposed by the Greek Government's actions and failures have affected the assessments of the insurance assets as well as their investment policy and development in the end of their work. Most insurance portfolios are found by Greek State bonds and commercial properties, which de facto creates increased capital pressure. Even today capital controls make it difficult for insurance companies to invest in international markets, while they have frozen their growth in a number of products in the sectors of life and funds. The river shall vote in principle and in the articles of the provisions implementing the Solvency II Directive in Greek law. We do not vote for any nonexistent, chainless amendments, reforms in insurance, violations of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, too. The President of the Centro Association, Mr. Leventis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I was informed about Mr Pappa's statements, I thought he would give four permits, I thought it was funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u240	Are there any such statements?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u241	There aren't any.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u242	First I'm not talking to you. It's a turbulence underneath, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u243	Please! Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u244	I didn't talk to you. I'm talking here. And as I hear you, so will you listen to me. Because the President said the day before yesterday that I was having a dialogue. I don't have a conversation with anyone. Voice is your people. So when I was informed of four permits, because eight pan-Hellenics operate, I say: Who will close? Can it shut down stations like SKAI? Can stations like ‘ALPHA’ be closed? Can stations like "MAKEDONIA" be closed? That's what I said! He explained that the channels are not viable. It's not sustainable, he says. Has he studied and presented it, about how sustainable it is? Because, here, I see a table of national channels across Europe, which says that Bulgaria has ten channels, France thirty-six...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u245	They're not national...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u246	It's national channels. I'm not talking to you, sir, and you're still there...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u247	Please! Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u248	Go back when I talk. But please, Mr. President. You said here that I was talking. Am I talking to anyone? I'll talk and you'll say yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Papadopoulos,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u250	I did not speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u251	Bulgaria has ten channels, France thirty-six, Germany forty-four, Spain fifteen, Italy sixty-one, Cyprus ten - which has much less population than Greece - the Great Britain fourteen, Romania ninety-four, Sweden twenty-nine, the Czech Republic twenty-five and Greece ten. And Mr. Pappas wanted to do four! Right now, I'm not in any mood to protect the canals. I've said we need to check in. In other words, in the news releases there should be pluralism, hosting all parties on an equal footing, keeping the laws, checking them financially, paying. Let's pay. If we can put 8 million from now on, why can't we put 8 million or whatever millions on those who operate? I don't get it. Why do we have to shut them down and put the 8 million others in? And in Jerusalem where we live, the rumor circulates that even Turk has come to an agreement with Mr. Tsipras. That'll show up in a few days. Your insistence, however, that 4/5 of the Conference of Presidents should not be respected and that we should go to the National Parliament, where SYRIZA is now the majority, is that we say that SYRIZA should decide which channels will work. Isn't that right? Who's gonna decide? Because here, as far as I know, some decisions are taken by majority vote. Because it's a question of democracy and fundamentality, you blame the Canadians for not paying, that they didn't. You went to their channels and you legalized them. The continued presence of SYRIZA and right-wings on all channels legitimized them. They also sought to have you there and in this way to prove their own legitimacy. A hint was reported. I could bring in other insinuations, too. Because the radio "COOKINO" also became a time. We all know how it happened. Now is not the time to start such hints. All the channels operated by Mr Reppa's law, who put in a provision saying that 'all channels currently operate must be legal'. Except he didn't make rules. It wasn't illegal for the channels. By decree of the Minister and by decision of the Parliament, the channels operated and were legal, as they operated until a date. There was no 'piracy'. It was a legitimate minister's decision. Unless we respect them and others, we consider them legal and other illegal. I am frightened by SYRIZA, the way he brings amendments, the way he wants to abolish boards of agencies. That is to say, it brings amendments from the outset, which show that it does not have the right to debate and to cooperate with the other parties, but wants to operate authoritarianly. It scares me most that SYRIZA does not have self-awareness that at the moment he does not represent anything. Because 35% took September. With what he does, it's a matter of having 15% and - how much does he have? - Burnt 2%. With 17% of the Greek people, basically, you go to make such changes, become reformers, become cleansing tools. These are dreams that are great. I think you're going to collapse very quickly. Because when a person, without a populace, without a people's confidence, sets such great goals or is inappropriate and naive or has dictatorial tendencies. That's what I have to say. I asked Mr. Pappas to tell us what the channels are. He wants to bring in - he says - the order, the majority of the House to decide, and then he will tell us which channels. So he goes to choose from his intertwined friends. How else can I explain it? Then it says 'no four, we'll see'. These are actions which do not show democratic behaviour. They're self-government actions. If you want the consent of other parties, you should have function democratically. Mr. Katrugalos brought us a bill. He came, he gave it to me and he says, "That's it." I said to him: has there been any consultation with anyone before? After I first saw him there. What kind of consultation? I say to him: "Are you convinced you're going to pass this bill? Won't the world rise?' I told him. I warned him. What is this law doing, according to Mr. Catrugalo, a bill? It puts more contributions to the strongest - it seems, as a law - and reduces the contributions of those who first enter the professions. Only the first-time contributions are great. Is there any such thing in another state, that is, if one makes too much money, pays large contributions, the levy will go according to their income? There is no state in any country. In all Member States, the contributions are regulated for lawyers, farmers, etc. It is the first thing that is heard, that of a man's income also determines the contribution. I spoke to farmers because I was in Thessaloniki for two days because I had a speech. There is no good end to the farmers' case. The farmers have sat down and explained to me that the cost of production is not coming. I mean, he could have 60,000 or even 80,000 ticks, a farmer and money home not to go. ELGA is completely inoperative, and we're putting them in and we're paying for it too. Farmers are in despair. And you come over to get through what you want and say that farmers are evasive. Why didn't you say so before September that farmers were evading tax, see what percentage you would receive? This is the manikin and the honor: Tell them before September "You are taxmen!" On the contrary, you went and mocked them and told them that we would protect you better than other parties. You'd be legitimate to do anything if you'd informed the world. There's another argument that in September the world knew. What did the world know? Here Chrysochide was Minister and stated that he had not read the memorandum. What did the world know? Did the farmers know what you're going to do? Did the free professionals know what you're going to do? Are you serious? Is that a argument? You didn't even know. He knew - and if he knew - the minister who had signed it. Why do you know what you've done? After you did everything you had to deal with, you went a nice night and downloaded the pants and signed everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u252	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u253	My point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u254	What airplanes are these? Shame on you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u255	That's what I'm saying. I'm not insulting anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u256	You insult yourself above all else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u257	It's me. But when a party says it negotiates hard and comes one night and signs it all, is that to you it is a consequence? And I insult you? Damn me, that night Tsipras, if he read what paper they gave him to sign. Goddamn it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u259	He reached Grexit...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u260	Aren't you embarrassed? Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u261	That's right. That's what they said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Leventis, are you satisfied with the expression you used?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u264	Please do not repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u265	I do not think, however, but to explain, Mr President, that for five years some party has said that it has other solutions, that it will unite the South against the North, that Merkel will be scared, and at some point, when she saw that they had sugar, flour and humanitarian aid for us, she went and signed it all. That's why I said about lowering a trouser. I didn't mean to offend anyone. On his panic, the Prime Minister signed it all. And now it's turning them into measures against society. For SYRIZA to sit in power, he signed it all. He claimed he had other solutions. It took five years from Greece, for many people who followed drachmas and such nonsense were led by SYRIZA. SYRIZA was a model. And he now comes with his signature, Mr. Tsipras, and obliges all Greece to pay. That's what you're doing. But do it for yourself. You said you'd cut them halfway down. How many posters are there? I am going to make a document to the President of Parliament to tell me how many people have been posted, how many have scientific associates, and so on, since 2000, on all the governments. Let's see how much you respect public money. You want to take it from the farmers. From yourself? It's become the House of Commonwealth. This has been the case, and I am very sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u266	Are you getting them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u267	I'm not talking to you. I beg you to withdraw from the Chamber when I am, because you can't bear to listen. You've learned to be in your livanizing. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You're going to motivate the Hall and we can't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u268	You're causing anger.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Darkness!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u270	Anyway. What is this, however, to withdraw the 4/5 of the Conference of Presidents, to give Parliament the decision - and it is your decision - without explaining what it will be? Say which channels it will be, how it will be, and we'll all vote. You want it all yours! And that creates fear, that democracy is now being diverted to this place. My view is that the next few weeks will verify us. However, what Mr Tsipras does, after saying five years that he has other solutions, went and signed everything, and now he goes on to make the people pay, that he will pay for it. The people won't pay, Tsipras will pay and lose power. That's right. Those in this country who lie and say fat talk to ordinary people, to get their vote, must be punished. This is my morality, as I understand it. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] In other words, if you said 'we will do that, we will do it', I would vote, because I would say 'the people knew'. You come here undeniably and say 'he knew them', and even this Chamber does not know what you signed in September. Shame on some people!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u272	Yes, Mr. Venizelo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u273	I'm taking the floor from the list. I'm asking for a move.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u274	I can't hear you. Say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u275	I would like to move on and take the floor as speaker, as the Rules of Procedure say. I'm asking to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u276	The list of special speakers has not yet been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u277	As soon as Mr. Kammenos, who is missing, I want to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u280	I am asking for the floor, for just a minute, to give a number for reconfiguration to the well-meaning President of the Centro Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u281	But now I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u282	No, to God!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Venizelo, wait a minute! Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u284	Wait a minute, I take the floor to give a clue because they're written in the Minutes. Mr President, you are well-qualified and I know that, but the list referred to by the President of the Centro Union, in relation to the channels, pan-European, etc., refers to the whole of these national news fields, the thematics and regionals, which indeed the digital signal...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u285	No, that's regional.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u286	Excuse me, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Leventis, listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u288	He referred to what the digital framework actually does enable them to function. At the moment in all the Western countries or say what you want to do with Europe - the North or anything else -, which have settled the digital landscape, all national licenses granted with all the conditions, in no country is more than eight. In other words, in the large countries you mentioned, it is between four and six and I would ask you to do that, because it is a technical matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u289	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u290	I know, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u291	You don't know that. You're an engineer, you're not a radio engineer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u292	Not just a mechanic, but I know that issue in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u293	Yeah, yeah. But I indicated to you where the channels are...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u294	Okay. I don't disprove you, you realize it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u295	I've indicated to you where the channels are. It tells separate regional channels, elsewhere local...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Leventis, it's a possibility of spectrum. The licences issued are under ten in all countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u297	Now it's the spectrum!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u298	It's six, eight, ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u299	Oh, it's not SYRIZA's fault, it's the spectrum!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u300	I don't want to answer that. Say what you want. I have referred to this in order to update it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, I raise an issue of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u303	He's been judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u304	I raise the issue of unconstitutionalism, in accordance with Article 100 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u305	Hasn't he been judged, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u306	It's a different matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u307	Is he going to put another thing on? To end first the rapporteurs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three teachers attending from the 9th Bolos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u308	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see a tension between us and you. Today we have come to discuss the integration of the Community Solvency II Directive into Greek law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u309	Please, why this mob?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u310	It is a very specific and very important directive, which was perhaps to have come and incorporated into Greek law, as in other countries of the European Union, so that it also bears the holistic risk management and all the individual risks, which are being dealt with directly and indirectly by insurance companies, private and migraine, which were previously, as we all remember, some years ago in the Greek market.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u311	Ladies and gentlemen, respect the speaker! Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u312	A normality and a way of respecting three pillars of the whole process and the activity of insurance companies had to be introduced. We're a small market. The risk is great. We have, unfortunately, already seen all the bad experiences of insurance companies that have closed down or misleaded, or - if you wish - were now condemned - and if they have been convicted, we can say so, they have stolen reserves and made unfaithful against the public and against the insured - so, if you like, a law in the whole management and legality of these companies. There are capital requirements which, with this particular directive, come to the level of what they need to be, so that there are no safeguards and there are no risks in managing the reserves and revenues of insurance companies. I would also like to say that insurance companies, like banks, provide a service which can be social or medical care or a pension, but we must never forget that they operate as private investment houses, that is to say, they take the incomes and premiums of customers and invest them in the markets or wherever they find suitable ground, so that they have good returns, not to lose money but to be able to return and serve their contracts in the future. This is a job that is too dangerous. There was no legislation and there was no control. Now a check will be made on the way all the funds are managed, so that there is no risk of losing funds and fulfilling all the contracts. Solvency was alpha and omega. The partners' capital requirements are very specific. There will now be a rule and there will be supervision of the Bank of Greece, which is the only organisation, which has been voted last year since the integration of banks in Europe has had supervisory control and insurance companies. The system of governance of insurance companies had to be put into rules, because it was inconsistent and there were not the same rules for everyone. There was unfair competition, which certainly led to very bad results for these companies and to defraud the consumer himself. Transparency rules are the last rule and pillar, which should have been introduced into the system, because it was very important that all elements should be transparent in both the state and companies, but even more so for the insured themselves, that is, those who have the legitimate interest and directly. From there on, there is also a matter for the PSE at the same time. In conclusion, Solventy II, Solvent II, Independent Greeks are voting in principle and on the articles and we have made our comments. We think it should come and introduce a normality into the Greek market for the safety of Greek citizens. From there on, with regard to the PSE, we have to say that it is time for this country to stop interacting with anyone, directly or indirectly, who is blackmailing the political system. I'm not afraid of my words. In my previous suggestion, I have said that at some point journalists and journalists who deal with the press and write any article about any political, citizen or any person in the territory of the country, should also be controlled and made public by their own 'wherever you wished'. I must also say to the respectable Parliament that within the next few years I have deciphered - if you like - a European PSE will be established in the German Parliament. There is a proposal, that is, above the PSE, that the Greek or Italian or each euro area should have a European ERR which will supervise the national PSEs. This is a step, which we must take very much note of. I am not personally sure whether it is a step in the right direction of democracy and tolerance and freedom of speech to all lengths and backs, as should be the case. Because we must also defend freedom of speech both for journalists and for citizens or for any man who speaks or makes a statement to the media, especially in the European Union. When our Broadcasting Council acquires rules, it acquires the members who must be licensed and a regularity is brought into control by the State, so that we can also have a normality in the media, we must take care of the next step, which will be the control of this council, which is coming. I say it because I've read it. I hope, of course, that it will not be implemented, but if it is implemented, what we are discussing today will be controlled by Europeans and we will have to be very careful whether it is in the interests of the country, or whether we can see the laws governing the relationship between the state PRs, in relation to the supersupporter who controls them. From there on, there has been a debate, if you like, on insurance matters. We have to say a few words about that, too. For me personally it is a question of principle, of always being honest and of being able to document as much as I can. We must say here that in a period of recession or zero growth that was, fortunately, in 2015, a recession that, if you want, in 26% in the last five years and not in percentages - they left GDP of 62,000,000 euros, they left the labour market of over 1,100,000 workers, at the same time left our banks, which were the fingerprints of the PSI and at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, as the PSI, they leave EUR 13,000,000 from the insurance funds - it is not a temperate financial and as an economist, to speak of a proposal for a long-term insurance system in the wake of this catastrophe and this storm of unemployment, recession and negative indicators in the Greek economy. All we have to do is put the issue on the table, start with the terms and rules of involvement - you will allow me to express - with the partners, who, if you want, are in a position and take the responsibility at the moment to give the plaques, with which Greek obligations are served for the next three years and put the rules in place and see how the insurance system works to a greater degree and not to see in the medium or short term, to see it in the long term. However, a solution must be found in the short term. Unfortunately, the numbers are relentless. In the four-year period - five years of the Memorandum until 2014, loans, loans...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Javarra, the debate may be interesting, but anyone who doesn't want to hear comes out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u314	It's okay. The evolution of loans from 2009 to 2014, that is, of liquidity towards the Greek economy: in 2009 it was EUR 285,000,000, in December 2014 it was EUR 232,000,000. EUR 52,000,000 of liquidity has been lost. In the same year, non-performing loans from 22,000,000 euros in 2009 reached 78,500,000 euros in 2014. There was an increase of 56 million euros. Along with the unemployment and all the damage that has occurred since the implementation of the four-year loan, we have now come to discuss both the provision of loans and the home-month fund, i.e. income - expenditure, credit commitments to third parties, and at the same time we have to resolve an almost unsolved issue of papers in a week, which is insurance. The insurance will take years. As I said, we must put the rules and know what we are talking about, and at the same time, as I was informed by Mr Katrugalos half an hour ago at an event where we were together, it was in Brussels and the European Parliament, as an observer in our negotiations on insurance, has managed to put it in Brussels. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to thank the Members who have been patient to listen to me, and I would like to say that I do not want this House to be a café. I would like us to talk less, to do more work. We've come to work while many like to talk. However, one of my teachers in America told me that words are inflationary in the economy, because there is a great deal of supply and little demand. I would also like to remind Mr Leventis of his statement. I will read it out, and I do not want to comment on it, and I do not have a dialogue with him, just as he does not have dialogue with the audience. He stated: "Whoever voted "no" in the referendum is a failed, hungry or ravenous dog or poor, who envys the prosperous." This is Mr. Leventis, who talks about the people who fought. I close my speech by saying that the New Democracy, as a major Opposition, should stand up to the circumstances and bring forward proposals for insurance. Not only should we talk, but we should also bring works. We must cost and come and help the government, because it is a national project, it is not the work of a party. The insurance is for all of us, and it is for the next generations. It's not about a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u315	Whatever suggestions you brought, we bring exactly the same!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u319	Mr Venizele, the list of speakers has not yet been opened. Mr. Fortsakis wants to raise an issue of unconstitutionality. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, I would like to reply to the gentleman. He's an abusive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, on the basis of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, I raise a question of the unconstitutionality of the amendment, which has been tabled in relation to the Competition Committee. This issue has not been discussed. It is a completely different matter from the issue raised this morning for the PSE. I would therefore ask you to give me the floor on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u322	Please have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u323	I would like to speak on the same subject with other arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Venizelos, please. It's the guy who's talking and the rival now. Help Mr. Fortsakis in another way. I don't know. Please, Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, an important amendment has been tabled, which refers to the issues of the Competition Committee. As we all know, the Competition Committee is an institution which allows constitutional and constitutional fundamental rights to be achieved. Its independence, therefore, is an independence, stemming from the Constitution, even if it is not explicitly guaranteed. I'm clarifying. When we have a principle which is characterised by law as independent, even if this principle is not directly applicable to its existence enshrined in the Constitution, it nonetheless enjoys constitutional protection in this respect: since the law has come and declared a principle as independent, it is not allowed by the Constitution to change the statute that governs it for as long as the term of office of the members has been laid down. Otherwise, we would have a violation of the principle of trust, which, as we all know, is constitutionally guaranteed. What is today's amendment doing? It is completely transforming the status of the Competition Committee and independently makes it conditional. I will give four very brief examples. First of all, she comes and photographically changes the term of office of the President, the Vice-President and her members. It comes and establishes a seventy-three and seventy-seven age limit and provides that this limit also covers the members, the President and the Vice-President, who are active. So it takes at least one and a half years to complete their term of office. Secondly, it comes and significantly alters the incompatibilities, which apply to members. In particular, it provides for incompatibility between members and certain categories of different, such as, for example, MPs, ministers, etc. These incompatibilitys are photographic, because we all know what specific people are trying to hurt and we know that when they come and say that even if they are right to the future, they also take over the present persons, we have a provision which severely offends the independence of the authority. We then have the predictions that it recommends - be careful - to the independent authority - take note of what the amendment has said - a disciplinary misconduct by not complying with the members of the independent authority with the Minister's instructions. That's unheard of! Have you ever heard of an independent authority where its members are subject to disciplinary action when they do not listen to the Minister's orders? So if the Minister does not want a fine to be imposed in the morning and gives instructions not to be imposed, the members of the Commission are subject to disciplinary action if they impose it? Shame you thought of putting such a provision into law and bringing him to the Greek Parliament. Shame on you! Fourthly, the term of office of the administrative staff shall be changed and this shall be done with a view to shortening the time. Because we all know that the length of the Commission's investigation is long and that this provision is intended to ensure that we can never complete the recommendation alone and constantly depend on the famous mandates of the Minister. I repeat that the change in the legislative regime, which takes over from current members of the Commission and does not allow integration, as the law has promised the citizens and has given them confidence in the market, in that they expect the Competition Committee to function as an independent body, an independent authority, these changes are insulting the Constitution, even if the very existence of the principle is not constitutionally guaranteed. If you want, Minister, to abolish the principle, to bring in a law that says that abolishes the principle because it is not constitutionally regulated and we will then see how Union law and how the other provisions of Greek law, which are made through the existence of the Competition Committee, can be implemented. But do it right away. Do not bring an amendment, which has not even been discussed by the operators, has not even been taken into account by the Commission, even though this legislative regime provides for the Commission itself to give an opinion on the issues that govern it. Furthermore, as you know, there has been no consultation on these issues with regard to the European institutions. For these reasons, the issue of unconstitutionality is very important and I anticipate that if Parliament does not want to understand this simple matter, which would also be understood by a first-year law student, this law will have a problem with the courts. Because I am sure that these issues will arise before the relevant courts and will thrive. That is why, Mr President, I would ask you to raise this issue with the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u326	Mr President, I have not answered Mr Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, please facilitate the process!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u328	Shouldn't I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u329	Do not comment, as you have not commented on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u330	So I don't want to answer that. Because they're your partners! I'll answer another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u332	Is the Minister going to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u333	The Minister has a right to speak, Mr. Voridis. Don't be a rebel. Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u334	I said, does he want to hear the others?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u335	Don't you want him to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u336	He's got a shaped view, it's obvious!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u337	Mr. Voridis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u338	To raise a constitutional issue you should give the real data, not fictional, fake data. Firstly, it is not a constitutionally established independent authority. You know that. So it belongs to another category of independent authorities. Secondly, the duration of the members concerned by the age criterion is without prejudice to existing members. You have suggested that it affects them, but that it does not affect them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u339	It's affecting them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u340	They will complete their term of office and if they do not meet the chronological criteria, they will not be able to renew. So it's false what you said and it's not true. Thirdly, as you know, the law has no disciplinary procedure for this principle. The law of 2011 laid down that a disciplinary board appointed by law is set up by a professor, two judges, as laid down in the law. The choice is made by the Minister. The disciplinary procedure and what constitutes a disciplinary misconduct is referred to as a presidential decree, which has never been issued. For members of the service today, then, it is an institution that moves into a legal vacuum. All other independent authorities have disciplinary proceedings. The Competition Committee does not. So the legislator comes in and introduces. I have received the comments of the Commission's plenary. The Minister does not exercise any control over the Commission. He shall exercise supervision under the law. Do you think it's hard? I'm pulling it out! That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u341	Don't you drop the rest? Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u342	Withdraw the amendment!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u343	Obviously, the Minister exercises supervision under the law. Legal excess? It is not a disciplinary point, so that it is not misinterpreted. What you said is misinterpretation. Obviously the Minister does not exercise any control over the Commission's decisions by definition. Fourth point: It is incompatible with a parliamentary or governmental status. If you have a problem, it's a different class problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u344	We have!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u345	We have! Big one!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u346	If you're in trouble, let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u347	Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u348	Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u349	Let's put it. I would refer you to the last directive by the European Commission which says that all the independent authorities must operate under rules where there is no trace - and I quote - 'political influence'. I am exempted and defended to the end any arrangement leaves a trace of political influence. And the family relationship and other obvious, self-evident qualities are inconsistent with the European directive. If you're in trouble, say it out loud. It is a question of constitutionality that does not arise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u351	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u352	And I'm closing up with the managers and other data. Do you feel that the independent authority has permanent directors? There is a long-term tradition in the various positions of the Competition Committee. You can imagine and I imagine that the term of office - the duration - is an institution, which we all share. You don't have anyone. The establishment of the administrative bodies, as you know, is done in certain ways, has posted officials and others. It's not a structure that works. Therefore, being an administrative director is not bad at all and, in any case, it is not one of the issues that raise constitutionality. So - I recapitulate - none of the objections you raised is based on real facts. The only issue raised relates to relations with political persons. I am at your disposal if you consider this provision to be unconstitutional. But I think that the substance is different. You got it. Our intention is clear. The European directive clearly states that the independent authorities must not have any sign of political influence. Our proposal is clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u353	Mr. Lappa, will you see?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u354	I'll catch up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u355	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u356	I have little to add to what the Minister responsible said, Mr President. With regard to the question of the provision for the incompatibility of the first to third grades of blood and blood and stress, it is not the first to be guaranteed by law. To third extent, we have many prohibitions on our law and rather on all areas of law, both in public and private. It's not original. This is the ban, up to third degrees of family.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u357	Give an example of what you say about the third degree of affinity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u358	This is how credibility is shielded, which is how functional credibility is guaranteed. That's the first. Secondly, with regard to the issue of age, what would you like us to do, to reach the level of equality, or to maintain a bad practice that exists, all the judges who leave the judiciary are appointed and reach seventy-seven, eighty-eight, eighty-five, so as to be simple? I feel like I've become...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u359	How old are you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u360	Not me, Mr. Tasoula. When you grow up, you'll want to be ninety. It's all right, it's your thing. We say after sixty-seven each is to go home. Many are the young scientists, as I have told you. If the members of the various authorities arrive at the age of seventy and eighty years, the country's new scientific potential will sit and wait in equitable conditions to succeed the older in committees? Isn't it good enough for you seventy-third year of age and for the president in the seventeenth year? Isn't it enough to get his mental potential, his reflexes, his adequacy? It is enough to offer the Greek public, to the whole core of public and private life. Mercy! And one last thing: I said in the morning that, if you want to object to fundamental issues, you have the right to have your political disagreement. But raise all your political disagreements, however disgraceful and perverse, and if so, for reasons of unconstitutionality is wrong and I think legal error. Mr. Venizelos knows what a constitution means. Not all political differences can emerge and become anti-constitutional objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u361	Now you've found confirmation!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u362	You have already submitted two and every time you disagree with the law you do the same. You did the same with the law on citizenship, and so did the procedures of the penitentiary - if I remember correctly. Finally! Political disagreements are respected. Objections to unconstitutionalism have no ground, either substantial or legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u363	Do you remember Life?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u364	Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u365	The forces of the notorious constitutional arch intend to make the Constitution "ladder" and refer to constitutionalities and unconstitutionalities in the beam and when interests are affected personally, partisanly and selfishly. In this case, then, we should speak with names. SYRIZA wants to dismantle a neo-democratic circuit and the New Democracy wants to maintain this circuit. Please read a post, mention names. Of course, if some are affected, if what I say is false, they will take the floor and deny them. It is indeed from a neode-democratic newspaper which I read and published in November: "The aim of SYRIZA and the competent authorities is to find decisions of the Competition Committee concerning the Vice-President of the Committee Dimitris Lucas, who deserves to be a wife of the N.Kerameos Parliamentary State. Bad languages say that the latter had a decisive role to play in putting it in a electoral position in the NW. He is a close friend of Alexander Samaras, brother of the former Prime Minister." So SYRIZA wants to dismantle some neo-democrats and the neo-democrats want to keep their own. What do you say now - an hour's conversation - about constitutionalism and unconstitutionalism? Finally, let the constitutional arc respect the institutions in Greece and do not make the Constitution a "hate"! That's the truth. We are not taking any position in this conflict, and we are abstaining from this history, and we are denounced by names all these interests which are affected. Not that SYRIZA, of course, wants to bring about dignity. He wants to put these positions of his own, of which he will dismantle the neo-democratics. That's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u366	Is there another colleague who wants to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, first of all I sympathize with the efforts of the majority rapporteur and yesterday to support the lack of unconstitutionality with the provisions which the government is now bringing to an explicit violation of the Constitution. I think that the position of the Professor, Mr Fortsakis, was quite clear and I think, as he quite rightly said, even for the first year of the Law School. I was, of course, surprised to note that the Minister for Development, Mr Stathakis, who has not been designated in this House until now for Mr Tsakalotou's neo-marxist zeal, is not, of course, characterized by the silent endurance of Mr Juliarakis. Ladies and gentlemen, here, we must be absolutely honest. This is an independent authority. With the amendment - and I dare say, even though it is good not to say it - the 'built' amendment, which Mr Stathakis brings, he is trying to deal with issues of the first version of the amendment, which we saw the day before yesterday, and with the slight change that he accepted after the position of Mr Fortsakis, he is trying to step back towards positions which he hopes the government will be able to defend. This is completely inaccurate. First of all, it is inaccurate that it is not about existing members or rather about the fact that the amendment does not concern existing members. That's right, Mr. Minister, but that's what normal government evil is all about. In the previous paragraph, the President and the Vice-President are excluded, that is to say, they do not occupy the existing members. - but he's taking over the President and the Vice President. This is called a constitutional...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u370	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u371	This is not the case, the Minister will make it clear. You understood wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u372	Make it then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u373	If the government accidentally misunderstood the provision, it may well be fixed here. We've made dozens of pieces of legislation. The government's legal uncertainties are coming here very briefly. I wish it was just legal supervision. I'm afraid it's a real political wickedness. But please, Minister, you can fix this. I now come to the second unacceptable. And I'm gonna talk to names because I'm not ashamed to use names. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President of the Competition Committee is the husband of Mrs Kerameo's colleague. I must tell you that we are not hiding anything special, because the proof of the relationship is already there! [[Laughing and applause from the New Republic ward]] You are, however, in the process that the honourable Member has followed in the previous conflict of unconstitutionality, to invoke judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, as allegedly strengthening your position, Minister. Obviously, you take as a given that what you invoke will never read it and we will simply swallow it, because you just bring it. I will therefore show you - and I will table - two of the three decisions which you invoke and say exactly the opposite of what you say. The first case -288/12, please check whether the Government invokes it in the amendment - says: 'The Government has an obligation to respect the term of office of such a authority until its intended expiry'. Verbatim and yellow marker for non-willing to read the entire decision like the government. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second decision is even worse. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the What does the government say here? It says that the relationship with Parliament and with a Member of Parliament is confusing because it is an influence on the Commission. Right, Minister? Obviously, your partners have read these decisions and on these decisions your policy is based in a legitimate will. So I'm reading you because I'm afraid you weren't diligent. 'In any case...' - writes the decision - 'the lack of any parliamentary influence on these principles cannot be understood. It should be noted that Directive 95/46 in no way imposes such a lack of any parliamentary influence on the Member States.' It's on word marked with a yellow marker. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, this amendment is deaf and completely unconstitutional. I do say that I appreciate Minister George Stathakis. I'm asking him to withdraw it. The will of the government cannot be based on decisions of the ECJ, which say exactly the opposite of what this amendment refers to, nor on the logic of control of the independent authorities, whether constitutionally regulated or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u374	Finish, Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u375	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one comment. The government over the last three days has been pushing for arbitrary measures. It's a crisis element. It's a sign of the end-and-retirement pre-notification. I'm talking to the government again. It can no longer defend - it has passed this time point - its long-standing power. That's over. You despise, you know, or you don't know. The only thing the government can do, Mr President, is to defend at least the democracy of its fascination.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u376	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u377	First of all, Mr President, you have to deal with today's procedure, because all my fellow Members and those who have been miserable and wanting to leave and now everything is overthrown...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u378	However, Mr Loverdos, the process will end today and in any case, before the end of the gestation of Mrs Kerameos, which Mr Denkias also said. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u379	The Bureau, twice before you go to Stepma, referred to the procedure with predictions to end at 15.00 p.m. to 15.30 p.m. It's not coming out. It would completely go beyond the incorporation of this directive if we did not have these amendments, which have absorbed much of the debate so far. So, please, if I don't ask why, think about it. We, for our part - ladies and gentlemen of the other groups, let us inform you - do not agree that our speakers should be deleted. If the Chamber would vote to remove the floor, let it do so, but I think that all the groups have changed their position and what Mr Kaklamanis said - because he threatened us by voting - it will not be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u380	Mr. Loverdo, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u381	Please, as soon as the objection procedure is over, see...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u382	However, it is contradictory what you have to say. On the one hand, you stress the need to end the process and on the other hand, you say that the list of speakers should be exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u383	It will be exhausted, Mr President. So, if you'd like, you should see it with Mr. Voutsi. Do you want to go on Monday? Do you want to go on Tuesday? Do you want to go this morning?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u384	Twelve o'clock at night...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u385	Twelve o'clock at night. To take the floor to us by voting, there is no group in Parliament, no matter what it has in mind about what we say or do not say, it will not fail to do so. We shall proceed, ladies and gentlemen. Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure has been objected by Mr Fortsakis and the New Democracy. There is, ladies and gentlemen, a constant practice regarding that government, either in the form it had since the elections of 25 January 2015 or in its second version, which is related to the independent authorities, whether the Constitution provides for them or is not provided for by the Constitution, but is provided for by the law. May I remind you of the intervention on the age limits which it has placed on members of the boards of independent authorities, while they are operating normally, Mr Katrugalos, and under the outcry of Parliament he took it back? Very recent is memory. Loss of a recent political memory is not justified. May I remind you of the debate we had with Mr Spirtzi on the Telecommunications and Post Authority? It was a long debate both in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and in the plenary. May I remind you of the recent news with Mr. Pappas on the Broadcasting Council? When I say'recently', I mean October, not today, where we showed all the issues of special care for the government to get Mrs Alexiou out of the PSE. We've been through it. We've been over and over again. Today, however, we have to talk about it again, not on our own responsibility. We, ladies and gentlemen, want to have a consistency in our speech, with regard to the issues of unconstitutionalism that we are putting forward and because there is a mess and, in other words, there are provisions coming out, there have been a number of changes that are based on the intentions of the government and on the feasibility and limits set by the Constitution and the law. Today, just now, the Minister seemed to get something back. I want to tell him two things and that's what I want to close. First of all, Minister, because you also had a look, the fact that this Competition Authority is not in constitutional terms does not mean that it is no longer independent. There may be a difference between constitutional provisions and others, but that does not mean, Mr President, that those principles which are not provided for in the Constitution are not protected by this in relation to their independence. For they are independent authorities too. Therefore, to say in Article 13A(2)(c) ‘Diplomatic offence is, for the administration of these principles, the non-compliance with a decision or act of the relevant Minister in the context of the supervision of the Competition Committee’, this is clearly unconstitutional. What are the constitutional, those provisions that lay the basis for this argument? The constitutional provisions are concerned, Mr President, with the principle of separation of functions and with the principle of the rule of law. So you must realise that your practice, your proposals, your legislative arrangements with regard to the five principles laid down by the Constitution - but also those which are not provided for by the Constitution but are independent - as well as the possibility of introducing such provisions for the need to comply with your decisions, are not constitutional. That is our argument on the objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u386	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u388	Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u389	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u390	Why, my colleague? Only your pregnancy has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u391	I would like the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u392	Now? Decayed? Do you want Mr. Karrassou to lead him before I have given the floor and then follow him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u393	Would you like to precede, Mr. Carras?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u394	If you're kind, I'd like to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u395	Here, then, you have the floor, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u396	I would say this: in fact, the Constitution defines certain principles as 'independent', but introduces a regulatory framework for other principles that are not defined, for which it obviously leaves the joint legislature the possibility, not only to regulate the content of the activity and the power which they will exercise, but also the essential content of their operation. In recent days, and particularly in today's sitting, we have seen an attack - you will allow me to speak - to the independent authorities. Previously, there has again been an objection of unconstitutionalism for the PSE, to the removal of responsibilities. There is already a question of reducing the powers of the Competition Committee at the same meeting. We therefore believe that, with the proposed arrangements, regardless of the grid which they attempt and regardless of Mr Stathakis' explanations, the government does not defend these independent authorities, which should be well or poorly operated and which the State itself cannot serve as an administrative entity. The Competition Committee is a principle which in Greece has a history. It has produced such a work, it has gone ahead and it is useful. The way in which legislative interventions are introduced into their operation must therefore be said to weaken not only the validity of these independent principles, but also the competition committee itself, in its own power. And you understand that the constant legislative interventions make those who are members of the authorities hostage and are supposed to enjoy personal and operational independence. I therefore believe, Mr President, that, in terms of this provision, even if its opposition to the letter of the Constitution does not directly arise, it must be opposed to the spirit that it attempts to do so and to the non-independent ‘independent authorities’ of the Constitution to give operational and administrative independence. So we can only support the inconsistency with the Constitution of the proposed amendment. But regardless of this, you will allow me, because I have little time left to make some comments. I will agree with Mr Lappa on another matter, namely the duplication of retired judges to the independent authorities that have now changed their operational independence to a court. I may be in contradiction with what I said earlier about unconstitutionalism, but I think I have the opportunity to say that they should not act as courts, because the supreme judges have the fear of younger colleagues not to annul their decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u397	Do not weaken your previous argument, Mr. Carras. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u398	I'm not weakening her. I would just like to make a point of order. I sum up, then, and I'll be done. We said that even if the independent authority of the Competition Committee is not named in the Constitution, it has constitutional protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u399	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-three students and students and six educational attendants from the 3rd Messinis School and from the Aristotle Messinia Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Kerameau has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr Stathakis, I am silent because that is what my dignity and my course as a human being demands so far. I'm not going to participate in your game. But I will tell you one word: I would be happy to adopt this photographic incompatibility you are bringing. I am happy to do so, although my husband was appointed a member of the Competition Committee - for your colleagues to know too - six years before I even elected a Member in 2009. We weren't even married then. I had nothing to do with public life. Adopt it, even though it criminalizes the matrimonial relationship. Adopt it, even though it is against the independence of the authority, because it cleanssssssssing an active member. In fact, the amendment as a whole cleans up President, Vice-President, Director-General, Heads of State, all in the middle of office, ladies and gentlemen. All in the middle of office, and this is an independent authority! Set it up, even though it's unconstitutional. And introduce it, although it is contrary to Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u401	Now you've exhausted the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u402	I have not exhausted it, Mr President. Let me finish. And it runs counter to why it's ad personam. Minister, there is no other human being in the entire Greek territory affected by this provision, just me. And by the way, Minister, more photographic than you could have done! You could also put the status of a pregnant woman, if necessary, so that there is no doubt anymore, that this is me! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, you'd be happy to adopt it. But to convince the society that is watching us that this is not a political persecution against me, to convince you that it is no coincidence that this is a week after I have been appointed Parliamentary Representative of the Anti-Population Officer, so you can put it to all the independent authorities! Not only selectively in one. Put it on all the independent authorities! Also, Minister, introduce it into all pairs of MPs and ministers, MPs and judges. Then we'll see what your real intentions are. And I'm here to support it. But do it everywhere. Because, Minister, today I am judged for getting married. You are judged of your actions and your provisions! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u403	Did you ask for the floor, Mr. Karathanasopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u404	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u405	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr President. Without mentioning the previous speaker - do not misunderstand - I would like to put a title in the debate that is related. It's the title: "Look who's talking." To repeat, twice, the same disorientation scene is not a sign of wisdom in our view. The JRC is far from the process as a whole of the issue of unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u407	I would ask the floor, Mr President, on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u408	To conclude the debate on unconstitutionalism, Mr Venizele.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u409	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u410	Mr. Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u411	I'm asking for the floor. This is a precedent for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u412	Wait a minute. I'll tell you. Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to remind you that the Left in the past has paid at a heavy price toys with the flexible interpretation of the institutions, at the appropriate rate. And that is why it must be extremely careful today, which is in power. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that self-evidently it should be considered that at the heart of the perception, philosophy, the existence of independent regulators is precisely their discrepancy in the absolute and the absence of any influence and interference of the executive. Otherwise, they are not independent authorities and cannot be regulators. So, Minister, Mr Stathakis, since two questions will depend on us, we would like you to answer us if, as you said, or if I understood correctly, you insist that it is not a disciplinary offence or non-compliance with ministerial decisions. If you do, let us make a clear and explicit wording that does not allow for misinterpretation. One is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u414	He left the way he was.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u415	The second question concerns members of staff. Indeed, it is expressly stated in the amendment that the regulation in the previous subparagraph does not apply to the members. You refer to the members of the President and the Vice-President. It has been deliberately excluded, because this provision does not apply or has been made incorrect wording, so we are very easily correcting this wrong wording?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u416	Including!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u417	Of these, we will depend on our position and I would like your reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u418	Minister, please specify that it is included.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u419	Mr. Venizelo, listen to my proposal. I propose that the debate - which is completed - be concluded on unconstitutionalism and then be preceded by a speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u420	And say what I want now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u421	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u422	May I also put together the questions on the Rules of Procedure so that we can speed up?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u423	That's what I'm saying! So there is no other speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u424	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u425	The debate on an unconstitutional request under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure has therefore been concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u426	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u427	Mr President, let the Minister clarify!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u428	Let the Minister make it clear!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u429	Excuse me, Minister, I didn't see you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u430	I will start from the members to get this matter cleared up definitively. Members are all members. Thus, it is established on the basis of Article 12 of the existing legislation for that independent authority. The members shall then be composed of the President and the Vice-President, as is the case everywhere. So this position is quite clear. The members and the President and the Vice-President shall also be covered. Secondly, there have been some objections to the disciplinary system, on which we all agree that the loophole of the law needs to be covered. I have received a text from the Competition Committee which highlights three possible ambiguities - misunderstandings. You already said one. The second concerns the disciplinary commitment to ensure that their crisis is impartial and objective. It is unclear and is misinterpreted. I'm pulling her out, too. As far as the third point is concerned, there is also a misinterpretation that ‘possible may...’. And that's retiring. The disciplinary system therefore remains exactly what is a common consensus and is identical to all the respective institutions. Let me remind you for once: the Independent Commission has four rapporteurs. The rapporteurs, like the members of the Board and everything, are recommended by the Minister to the House. I would remind you that three months ago, it was so great that I had to check out the Independent Competition Committee that the two members I proposed were voted on by the New Democracy, the Democratic Incorporation and, in general, by all parties. There was only one white vote from the JRC. They were people of mutual acceptance. So, does that mean that within three months I was transformed into a monster, which wants to control the independent authority? There are issues which are well known and which urgently require protection. The third point, which we have not raised at all, is the Commission's shield of the use of legal advisers who use both sides. This is a key section which we are introducing and for which I imagine there are no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u431	That's self-evident!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u432	Of course! It's self-evident, but the practice...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u433	Don't interrupt, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u434	Therefore, with these three points, we are once again defending independence from political issues. Secondly, we are introducing the disciplinary procedure in a way that is consensual and acceptable to everyone. Thirdly, we shield the Commission against a legal system which has so far not had strong protection, objectivity and impartiality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u435	I would ask you to submit and distribute what the Minister said to the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u436	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u437	You are not protecting yourself, Minister! Remember it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u438	On my proposal, Minister? Will he go to all the other independent authorities? You're not saying anything! Aren't you going to make any comment, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u439	So there is no other speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the request for unconstitutionality has been completed. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionality, please rise. [[Receiving the proposal]] It is clear that the required number of Members from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House did not arise. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u440	Ladies and gentlemen, our debate is not open. The state of the country, what is it today? The government has lost control over all fronts. There is no economic policy, there is no negotiation strategy, no closure of evaluation. The country is again threatened with liquidity and funding problems. Society is currently in general unrest. The insurance, the agricultural sector are issues that the government cannot deal with. It monitors developments that it cannot control. It is not considered a reliable interlocutor from civil society. There is such a stress on the budgetary front that there is a lasting fiscal threat that is upsetting the market, which is engulfing the productive forces. And. Of course, the biggest problem, which is the management of refugee and migration flows, namely the issue of the country's internal and external security, the issue of the country's European status and identity - because the Schengen Treaty for us is also linked to the country's tourism industry - there is inability, inefficiency, inefficiency, inability to formulate an integrated national position in which we should be called, supported and helped. Because these are not matters for the government and Mr. Tsipras. These are issues relating to our country, our credibility, our society, our national dignity, the European strategy and the identity of our country! So while the government is in a phase, now, of a legalisation crisis and its power is raw, it has no narrative, it has no political and merit, it makes the choice of attacking the institutions. Where we need to form consensus conditions to deal with huge issues such as refugee, insurance, negotiation with partners under third-party conditions, i.e. the 'Tsipras Memorandum', there instead of forming this necessary consensus and collapsing, we are creating a problem of democracy and the rule of law. The evil began from the field of justice, where at the moment there is a huge problem of the independence of judges and prosecutors. There are tensions. There are intercategories. They are constantly opening up disciplinary procedures and criminal proceedings within the judiciary. And there are leading faces in the pyramid of the judiciary, who speak politically in an unprecedented way. And there are government ministers who do not hesitate to say publicly that, yes, we are following developments in specific cases and we are ready to intervene on developments. They also make this clear in response to parliamentary scrutiny. In that sense we also have the attack on the independent authorities. The constitutionally planned independent authorities, which have the greatest institutional shield, have simply been abolished. There are no doubts as to whether the five constitutional principles will be in place soon. Meanwhile, they have been stopped in practice. The rule of law does not function together and with integrity because basic institutional pillars are missing. Personal Data Protection Authority does not work. The Privacy Authority does not work. The National Broadcasting Council is not working. The Citizens' Counselor is not fully operational and the ADP is under-operating. The paradox is that, in constitutionally regulated principles, legislative intervention has been raw and comprehensive: they have been abolished! To the regulatory authorities, the statutory but not constitutional, market regulators, interventions send messages both to the authorities and to the market, because the government is in constant transaction with market cycles. This has been done in the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, it is now in the Competition Committee and we will see what is going to happen with the Energy Regulatory Authority and other relevant authorities. I would say if I took the floor in the anti-constitutional objection procedure, that there is an explicit constitutional provision that is in breach of the proposed regulations. It's Article 28 of the Constitution. Because for all these regulatory authorities and certainly for the three I mentioned - the Competition Committee, the Post and Telecommunications Committee and the Energy Regulatory Authority - there is an integrated regulatory framework at European Union level, namely in the context of European Union law, which is constitutionally regulated through Article 28 of the Constitution. In that sense, any infringement of Community law constitutes an infringement of Article 28 of the Constitution and raises a question of constitutionality. However, while the House, by a majority, rejects the objections of unconstitutionality, the relevant Union institutions are not so easy. They'll keep going in control. Also, in the end, all of this will be judged in court. What does Mr Pappas' new initiative mean to bring about a provision which today says absolutely nothing, an empty white legislation, that the number of licences will be determined by law? But you didn't have to bring this today. Let us bring in a provision, which said that the number of licences is the same number.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u441	That was a ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u442	What was the anti-constitutional provision? The previous one, which entrusted the Minister with a ministerial decision to regulate a question of such a sensitive constitutional, institutional, for which no authorisation is granted for the adoption of a ministerial decision. What will be unconstitutional? It will be unconstitutional to have the legislator come and say arbitrarily a small number of permits, without resulting from the study of technical data, so as to serve the freedom of expression enshrined in Article 15 of the Constitution, but also in Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. He says Mr. Voutissis: "But there is a viability study. If you have four hundred workers, you don't survive on cost. Therefore, we will need to reduce the number of licences." Who said you must have such a cost? The law itself. Does he have the right to say that? Does it have the right to make the right to expression in the broadcasting landscape or on the Internet conditional on economic power? No, of course not! Because the Internet is a constitutional issue in Article 15, as is radio and television. So, here we are actually trapped in a vicious circle. The government was trapped in her own vicious circle, because now she can't do anything. Nor will the number of licences be able to determine, because even this law is judicially controlled. Since it is a law, it does not evade the annulment of the Council of State, because it conceals an administrative act, admittedly by the law itself, that it replaces an administrative act. And, of course, there is also European control. We're talking about huge issues. In our time to express political speech, do you have economic power? And who's in touch with the interests and the complexity? Is he the political victim of the media, because the media were massive and dynamic antimony in previous years, or has the one made by the zero government in the climate of antimony demagoguery? And who is he with contacts and transactions? The one who defends legality and constitutionality or the one who promises authorisations? I'm doing a prognosis. This process of so-called permits, based on the law of the Tsipras Kammenos government, will never be completed. And if you seek to complete it, this will be the biggest institutional scandal and finally the political grave of your Government, not because there are problems of political reason and political controversy, but because you will see relief in the interests of hard, uncontrollable, opaque and then we will see who is who and what we all have done in this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u443	Mr President, you are facilitating the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u444	The same goes for the Competition Committee and Mr Stathakis' amendment. Instead of coming to tell us what Mr Stathakis said today, he should tell us what his position is in relation to what the President of the Competition Committee said in his three-day hearing in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. The President of the Competition Committee said, therefore, that there is pressure from the Minister's initiatives through the General Secretariat of Trade, which has the potential to replace the Competition Committee in its responsibilities. That's the big deal. And that is what the Statatica amendment hides. The question is not the incompatible, Disciplinary Law, the insults of the individual against Mrs Kerameos, when, in fact, we have MPs and ministers with spouses of judicial officers or related judicial officers. The problem is that they are all preparing the ground for a transfer of powers, in fact, from the Competition Committee to the Minister through the relevant General Secretariat. Who's the common denominator? The common denominator is the crisis of institutions, the problem of democracy and the rule of law precisely because power has become raw, he has nothing to say glorious, he has nothing to say that is charming, he cannot promise anything. It apologizes for inconsistencies, contradictions, toughness of measures, inability, inefficiency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u445	Mr President, put an end to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u446	What does he think he's doing? That it controls the mechanisms of the state and that by controlling the mechanisms of the state, it will extend the life of the raw power. You're in vain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u447	The Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, has the floor for a brief legal intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u448	It's nothing serious. There was an ambiguity about the entry into force of the provisions. I testify to her for the Minutes and please share.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u449	Mr Famelos has the floor and I call for the time to be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u450	Mr. Venizelos is, however, out of the House's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u451	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u452	He spoke thirteen minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u453	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u454	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will only refer to the amendments and try to be brief. Two essential interventions are being made by the government today in matters of democracy and the functioning of society and the market, two interventions which are sufficiently publicized, since two or three days ago are well aware of all parties and all of society. However, we must describe in society what exactly these two amendments are doing, because we very much fear that the opposition and its usual aspects will try to cover the responsibilities of the old regime and distort the reality once again. In order to understand, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening with these amendments, I think it is worth describing what Greece is. Greece is not just the memorials, which have created recession, poverty, exclusion and unemployment. At the same time, in recent years Greece has been discriminated against, buddies, deep state, banks, closed contracts, state-owned entrepreneurs, channels, sport, smuggling and unfair competition. The result of all those that the previous governments maintained was that the rich should become richer, but Greece should be uragua. And the question, which was raised three times in the 2015 elections, is whether we can get rid of this mud, from this outfit, and whether we will go ahead with the European acquis. First theme, then, canals. What exactly happened at the channels that covered all this up so far? Twenty-five years of immunity, non-licensing, no competition and no fees to the state. What exactly happened? Failure of a Member State to fulfil its obligations — Failure to transpose, within the prescribed period, Council Directive 92/81/EEC on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative Of course, the services to the channels and canalarchs have not only been limited to the non-implementation of the Constitution - which all the governors of the country have done for the past twenty-five years - but at the same time loans of more than EUR 800 million, no charges for the use of frequencies, no taxes on advertising and, of course, full-time crews and medium-sized contracts. Because that was done without control on the channels. Of course, on all of this, ERT's 'black' does not even broadcast public television. We, ladies and gentlemen, have said no more at the party in all areas. We said everyone's equal, and everyone's gonna work by rules. There will be a competition, a license and an audit by the National Broadcasting Council. Whatever the Constitution says. And the competition - to point it out - is an element of the agreement, which you voted on in August, is a control element of the European Union and of the institutions and you hide it, because you are now suddenly not in agreement with the competition either. Besides, Mrs. Vulture says there's no need for permission. The Commission considers the country's obligation to grant authorisation and national authorisation procedure. But the New Democracy is undermining this process and the other parties - to make it clear - they do not defend the process of democracy in broadcasting and the Constitution. How are they undermining her? They sabotage the election of members of the new National Broadcasting Council that has expired and substantially restrict the existence and functioning of an independent authority. You're holding the National Broadcasting Council hostage. Even if you disagree with the licensing law, you are not entitled to contribute to the appointment of members of an independent authority, because you are also in breach of the independence of the authority. You violate the independence of the National Broadcasting Council, because you do not allow the country to have an independent authority on broadcasting. Our aim is for the competition to be carried out and for everyone to compete on an equal and transparent basis and for the highest level to be transparent about how many numbers and licences there will be. Unfortunately, however, Mr Vorides, and also Mr Venizelos, we have clearly understood what they believe. You told us. There's not going to be a competition. You will in every way defend your colleagues, the Canadians, the ones who for twenty-five years have been unwilling to give them permission, to check on them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u455	We won't let you do anything you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u456	We, however, know that in the face of this titanic struggle of interests, it is the first reason for the citizens and we are causing you. Why don't you do a golf club to see how many Greeks want to finally turn into a canal contest? Why don't you make an opinion survey to see how many of our fellow citizens - including your constituents - want no immunity and no control? It's very simple. You don't dare. We're still making one more concession. The rights that the government has had, the rights that Parliament has had, we agree to debate here, with democracy, in front of everyone, that all citizens know how many licences will be obtained, how the competition and the National Broadcasting Council will be able to make the tender, to check the procedure for the channels. But the question remains. Do you agree to license the channels? Do you agree to follow the policy, which says that Greece should change page, that we should finally return to a norm-based society? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. Your refusal is tantamount to denying the Greeks' ability to have representation, to have the House function, to have democracy and to have transparency. And you're not only defending old chairs, which seems to be very difficult to separate, but you also defend a state of lawlessness at the same time. You are defending what is the deep state, which does not allow Greece to move forward. We are still asking and asking the Centrons' Union, because Mr Leventis' position has shown us. Do you agree to continue without permission the channels? Because we too recognise the issues of democracy, the functioning of work in there, but can they continue without permission? That is the crucial question. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am finishing my thoughts. The second amendment concerns the Independent Authority of the Competition Committee which is a authority which ensures free competition, the functioning of the rules and institutions and which are conditions necessary for the country's productive reconstruction, which are necessary to combat corruption. And this is not only about the worker or small businessman, but also about the big businessmen who want clean rules. They don't want any secret alliances from the Competition Committee. They don't want secret alliances of the political system only for their contracts. And the National Representation has been busy with the subject and the Committee on Institutions of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u457	Mr. Femmelle,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u458	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are therefore intervening in order to strengthen the situation. 3959, there must be functional independence, institutional authority, institutional immunity and there must be no relationships between political and executives of independent authorities. Because if there were, Ms. Keramos, your husband had to resign when you were elected a MP to be all settled and beautiful toward the public debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u459	For all the authorities to do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u460	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u461	But at the same time we also need a legal service that will not depend and serve other interests. I give Parliament three texts on which the competent Advocate-General has made a criminal case-file: Firstly, because there was an identification of the defence lawyer and the representation of the Competition Committee in the case of the ‘ALUMINION’. She's already gone with her own criminal court case and was charged to a prosecutor. Secondly, there is at the same time a reference to the prosecutor because there is a delay in processing the cases. And, thirdly, there is a complaint, where a lawyer representing six cases complains that while complaining to the Competition Committee, the company represented by information from the Competition Committee was accused. These are scandals that stop the economy and the functioning of the market. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are therefore quite simply saying that both the rule of law and the competition committee and the transparency must be restored to the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u462	Does this have to do with judicial decisions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u463	Mr. Famelle, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u464	Citizens want it. The question is whether opposition dares to deal with corruption. Very simply not, because she supports you, because you are the representatives of corruption. And the dilemma that gets into the public is: Does anyone trust you? No, no one trusts you anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u465	Come on! Get down! Representative! All of you trolleymen of interlocutory!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u466	Ladies and gentlemen, on a point of order, I would like to ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups if they agree and who are to finish the procedure at 16.00 a.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u467	No speaker has spoken!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u468	You want one of each party to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u469	Only one speaker has spoken, Mr. Famelos!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u470	Mr. Voridis, finally get in touch. The President of Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u471	Since noon Mr Kaklamanis raised the matter in time, i.e. to finish if he is at 16 a.m. to start the roll-call vote. There could also be a circle of five or six speakers - how many of them were - from the parties beyond what they were to speak and had become a relevant calculation. You're all aware that I'm not used to talking to faces, or what they're telling me, or what they're suggesting, etc. However, since yesterday there has been concern from Members and from parliamentary groups that we should end today at 15.00 p.m. with 16.00, because there are the blockages and flight tickets, and so on. There was such a sensitivity for that there was pressure over time. If there is agreement between the two groups - I say it directly, not SYRIZA and ANEL - to force others not to speak to God! - and there are four, five Parliamentary Groups with the representatives and they say that we are in fact at 16.00 or at any rate ending a circle of speakers, I would ask you to proceed with this process. If there is no such consensus or the wider one, we will go today and finish whatever time we can finish with all the votes that will take place. Friday is still, not to say we can go on tomorrow. However, it should go on Tuesday, because some people think it's the fight today, at the same time as all other issues run, it won't go!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u472	I must say that the Bureau has received requests from the two groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u473	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u474	It is not a proposal from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u476	Mr. Loverdo, wait a minute. Your position is expressed unless it's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u477	Mr. President, may I? It's not like that. Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u478	On behalf of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u479	Allow me. The issue is constantly emerging...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u480	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u481	Leave me two minutes to finish. The question arises because there is a debate at a time when the two amendments have not been tabled. This debate on the amendment by the Committee on Competition has been tabled on Wednesday, if you remember. A completely different framework has been removed and basically formed yesterday. So when such major amendments are introduced, the time obviously, Mr President, to calculate the debate on a basic consensus bill, which ended up being unconscious, because we obviously had some detailed discussion in the directive, which is, in many cases, regulated, these two amendments are being put in place and the programme is being changed in full. Of course colleagues have now planned, especially those in the peripheral regions who are responsible for going back, returning, booked tickets. Sure. So what's the solution? It's not about stopping. A Member of Parliament has not spoken at this time. The Parliamentary Representatives on the bill have not spoken. They have spoken about unconstitutionalism. So, should these amendments go through without a full debate? I'm so sorry! So the solution here... Mr. President, he's been filed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u482	Who are you arguing against now, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u483	What's the solution? The solution is the roll-call vote to go for Monday. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] What's your hurry? What's gonna happen to you? What's gonna happen to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u484	Tomorrow. Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u485	The roll-call vote should go for Monday and the debate should take place properly. That's the solution. Whoever wants to leave, go away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u486	Just a minute, Mr. Voridis. Excuse me. It matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u487	Isn't that a right solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u488	The bill that was for today had a broad consensus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u489	True.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u490	If it was alone, it could have been over at 12: 37 in the morning. The debates that have taken place since yesterday were in view of the fact that there will be amendments and will be roll-call votes and that this threshold has been reached.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u491	That's when the line came in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u492	So don't deny me that they changed the data due to Poppa and Stathaki. If there were no roll-call vote, and there was no repeat of the insurance bill, where you had a wide consensus in the committees, there would not have been any limits. Let us not find out today why the roll-call vote should be postponed at some other time. It's not right. So today...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u493	Mr. Loverdo, Mr. Voridis. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u494	The intentions of the government have been heard, but to tell you that both the government and Parliament are waiting for and the common authorities to implement a law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u495	What will happen to the government, Mr President, if we vote on Monday?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u496	Mr. Voridis, your proposal has been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u497	That's enough of the delay!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u498	I don't understand why this nervousness exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u499	That's enough of the delay!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u500	It is three months and has brought two late amendments. And that's why he's getting cut? Well, not like that! Are you talking about delays from us, when it brings in late amendments and withdraws them and restores them? And you're telling us about delay because we're telling you that because of planning to vote on Monday?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u501	Mr. Voridis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u502	We waited here for you three months to finish with your own votes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u503	Three months and it brings in late amendments!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u504	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u505	Because he has asked for the floor and Mr. Dendias would like you to precede or precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u506	On many occasions, Mr President, because I knew this and the Bureau, but by asking for the floor I have stressed this. Colleagues, yesterday we had a draft law in which almost all of us agreed and the procedure went at 12 o'clock rather than at night. They were twenty speakers. As much as you agree, especially when you do not agree, the process has to be progressed. Mr Voutsi, Mr President, have we proposed paradoxical tactics, take another day and delay? At 12 o'clock, at dawn, whenever you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u507	Clearly explain your position. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u508	I'm hanging up. And is it not what the President said, that if the large groups are the majority, will the vote be taken to remove the floor from those who have been declared? What's that? It's never happened before. Our proposal is, since things have come so - with the responsibility of the government so, if we had only had the draft law, we would probably have completed the list, the parliamentary representatives will also have to speak and then a roll-call vote will have to be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u509	Yes, sir. Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u510	Continue and complete the procedure as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Anyone who wishes to speak, speak freely and vote to be taken today. And I grieve to hear the President of this House being treated as an argument for postponements to the fact that there are blockages. So what happened to a congressman dropping into a block? And let the MPs realize that society is boiling. Today, then, anyone who wants to speak, speak freely and follow a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u511	Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u512	Mr President, we have witnessed the following governmental practice: to discuss legislation either in urgent procedure, in 90% of cases, or, in any case, in legislative acts or, exceptionally, in one sitting. It is not only that, but that there should be unregulated, unregulated and arbitrary amendments. I think it goes without saying that no harm will be suffered by society and national life, as much as by the government, since the continuation of the debate and on Monday. To complete the list of speakers, until any time they arrive and vote on Monday or Tuesday. There is nothing that is urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u513	Mr. Treasury, because the Bureau has received requests from all of us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u514	No one agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u515	Well, you don't agree. We're continuing the process. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and students and seven educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Youth, that is, my home. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Varvichiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u516	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has been trying for all this time, and SYRIZA is trying to say that some parties are intertwined and that some parties have made them tiles with the Canadians, with the media and that they want to save and well enforce information. I represent the New Democracy and I am proud of the history of the New Democracy and the battles which New Democracy has fought for media pluralism in this place. Because if it were not for New Democracy and its members, it would not have started opening the broadcasting in the late 1980s, if it were not for the mayors, then, who illegally built radio stations. The New Democracy fought and imposed this constitutional arrangement in 2001 in the Constitutional Review, Article 15(2) concerning the establishment and responsibilities and constitutional safeguarding of the National Radiovision Council. New Democracy, the then Prime Minister, Costas Karamanlis - who was here a moment ago, in the Chamber - fought for transparency in the functioning of the media. So you cannot escape against this party, which has fought for pluralism and has suffered rabies attacks by the media, any disposition of the media. What we consistently supported was the greatest possible pluralism. And what we have said and advocates is that we should not return to the logic of the 1980s, that is to say, the ministers or the government majorities, force the way the media operates, and that this should be entrusted and remain within the framework of a National Television Council. What do you want to do today? You want to reopen a trade and blackmail cycle. That's the reality. You say, yourself, as the President of Parliament did a moment ago, how many channels the place fits, what the advertising pie is, how many can be maintained. You can decide politically, as you are interested in. And your basic argument that you are making a political advantage for the country. You tell us that with this people's problem your government will quickly come growth. So the advertising pie will grow, the revenue will grow, the economy will grow. And possibly, they can fit more than advertising pie today. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] But if you go to a small number today, because you think advertising pie is small, you're actually saying that in the adjourns we're not going to have growth, we're not going to grow, we're not going to increase advertising pie. What do you want to do? One simple thing: you want to have the ability to talk in terms of power with the media. You think you're gonna change anything? You think you're going to change anything in popular discontent? Do you think you're gonna bleed out voices? In the era of Internet and digital technology you think you're going to do something? All you will do is be in daily contact, as Mr Pappas wants to have it, on behalf of all of you, as a 'national canalarch'. That's the reality. And that's not going to lead you anywhere. Nor will farmers' reactions to your lies be gathered, nor will the reactions of the free professionals who see a new tax raid be stopped, nor will everyone who today demonstrate with arguments with which you protested the day before yesterday. You're not gonna sneeze them. Just do something that turns us back many decades: you are partying and privatising all the functions that should be left this Chamber. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Competition Committee was set up in 1977 and since then, with a number of provisions, it has acquired more and more rights. A few months ago, the Competition Committee - and I am impressed by this - is the second time that this issue has been raised, even indirectly - imposed a very large fine, unprecedented fine for the beer cartel. It imposed 31 million euros, at the same time that you brought in a provision which would close all the small breweries. And today, the previous speaker, in a rotating procedure, made those members of the Competition Committee indictees. If there's any disciplinary sanctions to get them cleared up quickly. But if you want to clear up certain faces, say it very well. Why did the decisions not like imposing heavy fines on the beer cartel? You've got something with the beer. You don't like Greek production? I don't know how you've found them with "Athens ZYTHICITY", I don't know what your relationship is, but there's something suspicious there about your relationship. Mrs Kerameau made a very serious proposal, and if you have the courage, Mr Ministers, adopt it. Insert the same exemption clause to apply to all independent authorities and extend it. You want to put it in the Secretary-General. How many would you do? Do you want to put it to the presidents of organisations? How many would you do? Because your wives, your cousins, your children, in all these posts you appoint. [[At this point, it is ringing on a number of occasions at the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member.]] Why don't you make it happen? Why don't you serve a horizontal principle of transparency and make it photographic? Because you only show one thing. You want to check certain functions of the state and that is what you do in a systematic way. We're not going to leave you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u517	I would ask the next speakers to respect the time, as we have a list of twenty-four speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u518	That's all right, Mr President, let's be a little late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u519	Mr Constantinople - if you can hear me - what I asked for is respect for time. I didn't talk about anything else. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u520	Just to be clear, we are also adopting Mr Toska's ministerial amendment along with all the others on which we have already expressed our views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u521	Thank you. We're continuing with the MP of the Democratic Association, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u522	Ladies and gentlemen, before I place myself on the private insurance bill and on the amendments tabled, I would like from the House to condemn the violence which took place yesterday against farmers in Thessaloniki in the opening of Agrotica. It seems that repression is now becoming a dominant instrument against any social protesting group. The social automation which the coup d'état is trying to create, in particular, against farmers with slandering, extremist and deceptive characterisations, and indeed from the Minister himself, the responsible person himself, is a regular short-sighted and dangerous one. For you, however, it seems that the people were dominating when you were in opposition and on the tractors, today that you are government, are provocators and extreme rightists. I have one to say to close this. Understand the problem of farmers. Start a zero-based dialogue, because unfortunately with your policy we are destroying the only production order in the country. In relation to the draft legislation under discussion, I would like to say that it is a very important bill - it even comes at a bad juncture - incorporating a directive on the modernisation of private insurance, now that you are degrading the public insurance system. This Directive was to be incorporated into national law in 2015 and implemented from 01-01-2016. We are, in other words, at the last stage before the country's referral to the European Court of Justice. But then you, with the baroque ambiguities and the plan b, were probably intended to be outside the European Union. The bill we are discussing on private insurance - incorporation of Directive 2009/138 - regulates the operation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings. We are in agreement at the outset, because the institutional framework for the operation of insurance undertakings is tightened up and their solvency regime is strengthened in three ways: by increasing the funds required for their operation, by strengthening corporate governance rules and by introducing the greatest possible transparency. The new scheme limits the chances of failures and accidents that have led to unpleasant situations, even with the withdrawal of authorisations for insurance undertakings, so that the insured are paid for it. On the Greek market today, forty-two insurance companies are active. It's only ten of them purely Greek. At the same time, however, there are also nineteen branches as foreign insurance companies with no establishment in Greece. In other words, we are voting today on a directive here, where the supervisory authority, the Bank of Greece, has full control, in accordance with the European directive, of the forty-two insurance companies and we have another category of services in the same sector of nineteen companies or more branches, which have 20%. Note this: In the 4 billion that the insurance market has in this country, these companies own 20% of production and are not subject to the supervision of the Bank of Greece. There is an unfair competition, and we are not closing the ferry, which we will have again tomorrow. Although the directive seeks to prevent closures of businesses and to have clearings of companies to the detriment of the insured, unfortunately in the existing bill there are ambiguities in relation to the clearings that will result from 1-1-2016. Indeed, by following various scientific positions by Mr Tsakalotou over time around the social economy, I felt very familiar with these positions. However, by presenting the draft law on the harmonisation of our country in the new European supervisory environment - Solventy II or Solvency II - various problems arise, particularly in the Auxiliary Cars, which is an organisation of solidarity. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In view of the evolution of the subject and, in particular, of the institutions' positions in the relevant parliamentary committee, I was sure that you would take these problems seriously and proceed with amendments. I am very surprised to see that your actions are far from being said. I thought, Minister, that the subsidiary, this body of solidarity between the insured, was the victim of structural change and you would, with your sensitivity, correct the situation. And I explain: Article 242(3) of the bill provides that the liquidator of a closed company takes all the property. So when it takes off the situation to pay the right ones, when the operation closes, the liquidator himself should proceed with the payments. What are you doing? You give the fortune to the clearer and the payments make the ancillary capital. But the subsidiary capital today, because it has been closed down in the past few years, is already by 500 million losses. It may not proceed to repay the losses resulting from a company being wound up. Three hundred and ninety-two thousand of our fellow citizens have been paid by the subsidiary. Its revenue is a total of 60 million. So this can't go any further. So we're sending the account to a debited agency and the property to a clearer that you or to many, since you're changing them all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, anyone who becomes the beneficiary of the property must also be responsible for the obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u523	Please, Mr. Jelloney, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u524	I'm done. If, however, you insist, you are limiting the liability of the ancillary capital, acting as a guarantee institution, to an amount that is escalating, because of the principle of proportionality. Don't lead an institution of solidarity to the padlock. They're not asking you for money from the budget. Justice, equality and the protection of solidarity are asking. I'm asking you, too. Don't leave your authorities and you're in danger of being accused of building a series of clearers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u525	Thank you. Minister Chakalotos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u526	Mr Colleagues, I do not know if you were here when I spoke because I was the first speaker and explained which amendments we accept and which we do not accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u527	I was here, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u528	I replied to you then that we have a problem with the Ice Arena decision, and I told you that we will bring this issue in order to discuss it as a whole. It's not that we're ignoring this issue. I don't know if you were there or if you didn't notice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u529	I was here, Minister. I am not talking about limiting the number of people, I am talking about the car industry's reserves and where a piece could go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u530	I do not oppose the issue, but I tell you that if you look at the Minutes, my prototype today, you will see that I gave you an answer, that is to say, to discuss it more seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u531	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor, with full respect for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u532	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the new complication that is going to be built around the television field. It is my impression that all these hours no one has dealt with the "elephant" of interlocutory circulating within the plenary session and it is not other than Article 2(4) of the Treaty. Question No 43, by Mr Papayannakis on television licences. What does this article say? That the Minister of Finance, with the agreement of the Minister of State, i.e. two Ministers, will decide on how much the new canals should pay for the licenses of more television channels. Two ministers will decide. So this is a very important issue that has escaped us. In fact, it says that the starting price will be fixed, as I have told you, by the joint Minister of Finance and, in this case, by the Minister of State - so says the provision - whichever is responsible, 'because of the PSE' opinion'. Not even the EPP opinion! Not even a fig sheet in front! The King is naked! The Minister is naked against the new interlocutory that goes to be built. Now for the amendment, which makes a hole in the government and gives the Minister the power of a government majority, namely SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, to decide on the number of television licences, I would like to ask him, in particular, what technical training will you say 'yes' or 'no' to what the Minister will bring you? Do you know what the difference between the clutch and the clutch is? Do you know what the difference of the digital from the post-digital channel is? Do you know what the limits of frequency are, whether the range is or not? You don't know them. So what the Minister will give you, that's what you'll vote for. You've voted worse here! In my view it's simple. I will make an explanation to Mr Papapas who said that we said as a river that 'yes, we find the step positive for the Minister to go to the House'. Mr Mavrotas, our colleague in the committee said so, but he made it clear that we would be positive if the majority required were to be increased, that is to say, hundreds of eighty-sixty Members and not fifty-five Members. Why is this all happening? It's very simple. You don't want the independent authorities. You don't want them or you want them controlled. Can we take a look at their situation? Of the nine independent authorities - five constitutionally laid down and guaranteed and four by law - the four are without president. Of the eighty-six members of the administrations of the independent authorities, the 50. Well, then, we're not talking about independent authorities, but we're talking about authorities - zombies, authorities - ghosts, corpses. They do not do their job and no one is interested in the government to push forward, push the procedures so that in a spirit of consensus - and above all social policy - these authorities can work because they are at the heart of democratic function. What are we telling you? We tell you that it must not decide, nor how much money a canalarch will pay to the Greek state to get permission, nor how many licences the Greek state will give the canalarchs candidates a minister and not the majority government party. It should be decided, as our language has hairdered, to say, a strong, independent, scientifically-organized National Broadcasting Council. I had submitted to you in my speech on television licences, then on the bill, on hard copy, on paper paper by our MEP, George giroticakis, on the European regulation of authorisations. I will present it to you again, this time in flash drive, and especially the SYRIZA and ANEL Members read it. Thank you. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above text in flash drive, a copy of which is to be found in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So what did this report say? I testified to you on October 24th. So listen: In Ireland and Cyprus - two countries that entered the memoirs after us and came out before us, but there they are serious countries, they are serious politicians, they are serious citizens - there they decide, as in France - but let me take France out, which is a great country - and the number of television licences and the price of starting their own PSE. In Ireland, with four and a half million people, half of what we in Greece have, they broadcast with permission from the Irish PSE 12 private and six public television stations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In Cyprus we have eleven private television stations and two public television stations. I am surprised that the evidence someone gave to the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, earlier, and mentioned to us, is completely incorrect. Totally! So France, which mentioned France, has a hundred twenty private stations, thirty-five regional and thirty-six public television stations. These are elements that no one can question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u533	At national level?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u534	At national level I told you, as I told you, regional and local.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u535	All kinds...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u536	Continue and finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u537	So, in Cyprus, my dear colleague, Mr Lappa, I told you that there were eleven private and two public television stations. And since I spoke to you personally, I did not want to do so, but I am opposed to you: if we put the age criteria - and I refer to the Stathakis amendment for the Competition Committee, even for the next term - I am afraid that in November 1989, Xenophon Zolota would not be able to take over, because then he was eighty-six years old. Well, I'm glad he took over, and somehow he sort of set up the shop. Ladies and gentlemen - and I end up with this, Mr President, and I am sorry for the time I have consumed the above - I also wanted to say something simple. If you do not want there to be relatives in the independent authorities, then take the first brave step, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL. Make a provision to vote on it all, which declares that any minister may nominate'mama-raver', his mother-in-law rapper, the prime cousins, friends and friends at ministerial offices and parliament. That is where I want you and there will prove the reality of your words. So I'm ending up saying, PSE over and over. It's the only way to avoid a new complication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u538	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr Cavalellas has the floor from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u539	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, the honeymoon, because today I found that it is not a government with a left-hand mark, but with a complete mark, with a communist, perhaps, a sign. You're being chased by your old discounts. You have put us for cheese the enlargement of the Broadcasting Council, that it is good. Of course it's good. There may be a more representative sample, but because it has not caught this vagina, you are trying to overcome the 4/5 obligation for the Conference of Presidents to appoint members of the independent administrations. You have envied the glory of the Bear, you will bring us the Bear to the mountains to drop the antennas, because you approve with the wisdom that holds you how many licenses to be granted. You are a great businessmen and you know which station can and can survive. Of course, they're getting quantifiable. We are in agreement with the criteria and economic and social conditions and also with educational criteria and quality criteria, and in any case we are with you in something positive. We could be the first to complain, because we have not been treated at all well, especially the President of the Union of Centres, the means. But aren't we - how do we say it? - vengeful people. We are interested in the common good, for the good of the Greeks, because pluralism means democracy and democracy pluralism. And as we talked about channels and euros and so on, I have lived in Italy, and you must keep in mind that there are six hundred forty channels, of which the national range is sixty-one. So how does Italy find the way she can handle it? I wonder, after the canal case, whether the radios will be followed, whether they will follow the websites, whether they will follow any magazines. Because where a measure begins and enters into pluralism and goes unfounded, I think that this suits a government that wants to control everything, because it knows that it is a minority government at the moment. I was the one who opened the TV, and every morning 7 hours I saw the Army in "Adenna", then I saw him in "Skai", "MEGA". I went to break the TV once, 'cause I saw him on eight channels. They had you at night. I can't figure out which channel has damaged you and you want to get revenged. Obviously, there are other reasons. I have a suspicion, too. There are 808 million, which the channels owe. If you close the channels, they will tell you: ‘Yes, go get them, after you shut us down. Hello!’. They're doing another company and they're going out on the satellite. Now you think the only road is on the ground. There are also the heavenly routes, which are satellites, and it is very easy for someone with far less money to appear throughout Europe. There, then, I have a suspicion of the type that this situation serves. There is one issue that has already been raised, the issue of the main shareholder, as if people do not understand that it is a mockery. One can put on a strawman and say, "He's the uncle of my friend's aunt's aunt and he has my shares." I think that this is how too many Canadians operate today, and they are not prevented by the law, nor can anyone control the issue of the main shareholder. I wonder, will you close channels like SKAI, ALPHA, EPSILON? What about the staff? Will you hire them? Are families staying on the street? We are, however, asking for all licenses to be granted to be covered by technology and, of course, covered by certain criteria that will be laid down. With you we will find the criteria, with you we will monitor the whole course, sustainability, if they stick to their programme, if they are channels that promote pluralism. We are therefore proposing criteria and those that can survive the market will show it. Can't Mr. Poppas tell us which channels they're staying. It is not the general accountant to decide which channels they can survive. I want one last thing to say, which is irrelevant, but it's important. You drown the children every day, come from the war zones and drown them because you say "Greece is open, come from there" and the children, the children, are drowned. You invite them and they drown the children.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u540	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u541	Are you all right? You must be ashamed of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u542	I'm very well. You say that Greece has no border in the Aegean. Mr. Tsipras said so. You invite. They leave Algiers and Tunisia and they go around. They don't cross across. They come from Greece and you tell them: "Come on, we're pulling them out." But on the way they drown.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u543	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u544	You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u545	I'm not ashamed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u546	Mr. Spyridon Lappas from SYRIZA has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u547	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague of the Central Association, for the conclusion of your speech I have to say something to you as a preamble to my speech. You should be proud, like us, of the fact that this country rescues human sensitivity and human dignity on behalf of all the peoples of Europe and not just of our country. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mr President, I will deal only with the amendment concerning media. What is well-known and is a common place of political forces, of Parliament and of society, is that for twenty-five years there has been an iniquity regime in our country, which governs how television frequencies operate. I think that when we all recognise and when even the Council of State has diagnosed that this is a non-legal status, the state is obliged to take measures and restore illegality. That's what I think he did. 4339. Everyone may have his objections. Maybe he didn't do it successfully. He may have his opinion that comes from his political thinking. But he did, and we think it was a part of political things and things on the television field. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4339, ladies and gentlemen, it was nothing but a political initiative within the framework of our obligation under Article 15(2) of the Constitution. The Council of State has repeatedly said that the indefinite operation of television frequencies and channels, without authorisation, is not tolerated constitutional and legal. The Council of State said so very clearly. I made three decisions in the Minutes, as they were tabled in October when we discussed the bill. It has been attempted on the part of the New Democracy and Mr Dendia to say that by tabling the three decisions of the Council of State, I have allegedly handed over the rope with which we will drown. I would remind him immediately what the decisions of the Council of State say, because it has isolated a small piece and diagnosed it. The Council of State, Mr President, states this in one of the three decisions, because their thinking is about the same. You need to think, at least, that the plenary session of the Council of State when it diagnoses a dispute has the right, the power and the obligation of many times to diagnose its own unconstitutionality. The Council of State, therefore, says that the old law of 1995, 1998, 2000, 2002, stated that by a decision of the Minister, the tender for licences is being opened. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4339 - and here it seems the hypocrisy of all of you who are opposed to it - said nothing different than the law and all the political initiatives from 1995 to 2015. He didn't say, Mr. Carras, nothing different from Mr. Karras. 4339. The law said that in 1995, 1998, 2002, 2005 and 2007! ‘A decision of the Minister for Press and Transport is published and the competitive process is opened’. So that is what the Council of State says and it does not diagnose anti-constitutionalism. It states that it is in force and on that basis that the status of lawlessness and illegality is no longer tolerated for twenty-five years. I've made the decision, not to repeat it. I am presenting, in the Minutes, all the legislative initiatives relating to frequency regulation, where the provision in Article 2, which stipulates that the Minister's decision starts this process, is identical to all legislative initiatives, seven, from 1995 to 2007. They're exactly identical. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Colleagues, in 2004, when Minister of Press was Mr. Theodoros Rusopoulos said: "The current situation in the media produces monsters".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u548	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u549	Yes, Mr. Comrade. I'll tell you right now. Do you think the journalists employed in the newspaper “Dimoratia” in November 2015 have anything to do with SYRIZA? Listen, as time is running out, what the article says: “With a great deal of courage and courage, the most expressors of the phenomenon show us their teeth and appear as honorers of freedom of speech! Through their luxurious vessels or their unprecedented luxurious residences, all purchased with the funds that are missing today from the funds of the Greek people, we are given lessons of morality and orderly functioning of the society,” notes in response to the journalist of the newspaper "THE VIMA" by Mr. Filipakis, please. And he says: "After raising tens of millions of dollars from the stock market, they were smuggled by creating "business monsters", which altered every idea of competition, creating channels for all of them...". I won't read any more. I'll file the article in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What has been said here, and I think it is not right, and I shall end with that, Mr President. How much, really, are there national-wide channels in the countries of the European Union? The list, Mr President, which I shall be tabling. I read them very quickly, because the number mentioned here speaks of the whole of the channels. Consider that, for example, in Italy there are forty theme channels, from vintage to athletics and fashion, while information content is only four. So listen, there are four in Austria, in Bulgaria, two in Cyprus, four in the Czech Republic two, in France, sixty million, five. In Germany of sixty-five million there are six, in Italy twelve, the largest number being Italy in Europe - in Poland three, in Portugal two, in Romania four, in Spain five and in Finland three. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's the first. The second is this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u550	Say the second one and finish it, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u551	I told you before, in the analysis of the opposition to anti-constitutionalism, that in the context of the debate on n. We have tabled a document from the European Audiovisual Observatory, according to which the countries of Italy, Spain, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark and others, together with seven countries of the European Union, do not have a regulatory authority following the competitive process. The exclusive, unique and final procedure begins, starts and ends it by the Minister responsible, namely only the executive. Finally, Mr President, with regard to Mr Venizelos' suggestion that he is dealing with Union law, if anyone reads the reply of Commissioner Etinger about what has been said, you will see in his report that what the European Union is discussing is not about the subject of frequencies. It is about the financial implications of their sale that they want to go to debt service, only that and nothing else. The others are misinformation and paraphology. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u552	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. Mrs Vulture has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u553	Thank you, Mr President. In the amendment I am going to deal with, not by replying to the honourable Member who has just come to my attention, because I understand that he is totally ignoring the matter and that he is in another decade. It seems to me how the government is possible at the moment - because I will respond to the government, I see that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group does not know about it, or even if it knows it, does not know it - through the Minister of State, Mr Pappas, can now be in a situation of suspicious perseverance that touches the limits of the diversion. Mr Pappas - badly lies - knows that what he brings for a vote will not be implemented because they have not been implemented in any democracy in the West. And therefore, since he knows and insists on other ways of escape and comes to Parliament and does things that do not apply, I am surprised why he is doing all this. There must be some very serious reason for that. It doesn't explain any other way. What the government and the Pope are doing right now in the field of information, from the spot to fascist - and stalinistic, if you like - targeting journalists as the arrangements for control of the press and information is also contrary to the Constitution and to the principles of freedom of the press and pluralism and to the European principle of the rule of law. In something above all, you'll fall and crash. There's no doubt about that. And I'm telling you that Mr. Pappas has done nothing different than what has been done in Poland. The supervisory board of public television has been revoked. Why, is that so? What's the point? He then abolished the way he elects the board of directors of public television and transferred it all to himself. Why? Why did he not like the independent authorities to be there in selection, such as the ASAP, or the Legal Council of the State? What happened and he took it from him? And after he did things this way, that is to say, the Supervisory Board has also changed the board, he has brought those who he has proposed to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, they have not taken the vote, but yet he has appointed them, he has abolished both the Ethics Committee and the Ombudsman on Public Television and after he has become the owner of public television, he has decided to become a canalarch. Seeing the reactions to this authoritarian behaviour, he began to intervene at the National Broadcasting Council. In an amendment, the members of the independent authorities, including those of the PSE, have been abrogated prematurely. Then he came and increased the members of an independent authority, which he has abolished. He is now doing so again, i.e. reintroducing the independent authority with an amendment that is competent - and he should be - to the independent authority, to the parliamentary majority. So it effectively abolishes the unanimity that the Constitution wants. It is clear, then, that it is. Don't blame anyone else for dealing with it. It is clear that Mr Pappas wants to keep his hands - a number of permits - so that he can trade, make the wheelchair of interlocutory. There's nothing else. And we tell you - a hundred times we've told you - that the data has changed. Since 2011 there is no analogue signal, there is digital. So there's nothing else that the Minister needed. And do not refer to Mr Rousopoulos, because it was in 2004 and we are in 2016 and it has intervened in 2011, where the signal became digital. Will the Pope tell me if anyone would bring funds from abroad to open something to the digital signal? And then why did the digital signal become, ladies and gentlemen? For pluralism to be pluralism and for everyone to be able, if they observe the law, to have a mediator. It wasn't for a minister to play. And what about it? He will now give four permits, then he will give five, then someone else will come, he will be able to give infinity, and every time the Minister trades. This will not stand, because it is a abolition, I say, of the rule of law of the European Union. And do you know what the rule of law means in the European Union, which has started in Poland? It means that the country that destroys the rule of law arrives at the point that it no longer has the right to vote in the council of Heads of State. Mr Pappas then knows that these cannot be implemented - he knows that very well - and he must explain why he insists on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u554	Thank you, Mrs von Wogau, and the consistency in time. Mr. Georgiadis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u555	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is sad that we do not have Mr Pappas in the Chamber. It's all right, though. I'll see you in general to the government. What happens to the amendment, which is why I have come to speak? Some fundamental myths have been created that I will reasonably try to analyze one by one, so that anyone who listens to us at the moment, because what your Government does is manifestly unconstitutional, but above all has a political feasibility specific. What is political feasibility? Check the mass media and blackmail the canalarchs. The whole conversation about your war is about laughter. You don't even care about that at all. You are only interested in how Mr Pappas will be able to blackmail the media through the great power that his law gives him. Where is this supposed now? What is the main argument of the Minister that he initially retained the number of licences for himself? That that's what Mr. Rusopulou's previous law was saying. Yes, sir. What did the Minister hide in this argument? That the Rusopulou Law at all actually did not give arbitrary authority to the Minister to determine the number of television licences. Why didn't he at all give that role? Because he was referring to previous technology. The number of broadcasters in Greece at the time of the Rusopoulo Law was set by the limits of the spectrum. The spectrum limits were specific, they could not be exceeded, so the Minister formally legislated what the technical specifications of the spectrum were saying. What has changed since the law of Rusopoulos today? The technology has changed. In fact, the limit for pan-Hellenic television stations is technically almost uncontrolled in various ways. So now the Minister who photographically takes the same provision, applying it to another technology, hides his real feasibility, first decides for himself. When this becomes clear and becomes a political issue, and because of this fact, the formation of the National Broadcasting Council is stopped, what is the Minister doing? He's coming today and he's throwing a firework. He says the Minister won't decide, but the House will decide. What House? This House that gives the Minister a vote of confidence. So ‘I will not do it myself, I will do it with those who vote for me. That's exactly the same. Why is he doing this? To show his so-called democratic dimension. So be clear and specific. There is no case at all for New Democracy, as far as it can, let Mr. Papapas or Mr. Tsipras blackmail freedom of speech in Greece. Not one in a million! And don't tell me to trust you because of your love for freedom of speech. I shall mention today's example, and I shall mention the name of my colleague, to give him the opportunity to reply if he wishes. Mr Balaourras comes out and makes the famous statement, which you know today is 'playing' everywhere, that 17 November - of course you disagreed with its ideology and practices, you said - had an ideology in favour of man. As you can see, when we are governed by people who think that 17 November, even if they disagree with its practices, it had an ideology in favour of man - of whom? These people who were murdering - we cannot trust them too much to let them uncontrollably determine what will be said in mass media. So the people that are watching us must understand that here we are not dealing with the war against those who are allegedly committed by Mr. Pappas. It would be worth Mr Pappas being in the Chamber because I had a lot to say about the war against the intertwined and intertwined ones that Mr Pappas personally does. It would be very interesting to have such a debate at some point in Parliament, and it will be done, I imagine. So, to end, this is not about the adoption of this law - and I say it above all about the media workers - to proceed with any licensing procedure, because in any case, the licensing procedure by the Constitution belongs to the National Radio Broadcasting Council. The National Broadcasting Council will not be established until power leaves Mr. Pappas, either directly as it was before, or indirectly through the House. So don't keep talking about this. If you really want the authorisation procedure to take place, you will change the law, you will pass the whole process on to the National Broadcasting Council and after the whole process has been passed by the National Broadcasting Council, the New Democracy will first come to propose names to complete the procedure, because we want the independent authorities more than you. In conclusion, I just want to make one comment. I have heard Mrs Kerameou's speech, which I congratulate, on the matter of the independent authority and the personal issue that is not a personal but a wider political issue in fact. I was very surprised that the Minister - even though Mr Stathakis is not here - was most popular in all, he said not a single word. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, which you, at least, are so fond of democracy, will you please address yourself on this subject? Do you accept that a Minister should come and legislate 'photographics' for one of your colleagues, even from another party? Because Mrs. Kerameau said something. Put the same provision for all the independent authorities, for the entire Greek state, for all the Ministries and Mrs Keramos will be rapporteur. You will not, because if a provision of this kind were introduced, half of your husbands, your own and your ministers would lose their place. So you're Pharisee hypocrites! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u556	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u557	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u558	The real thing is personal, not a fake. Today I interviewed the "BIMPA FM", on the occasion of the downgrading of the work that also concerns Savvas Dried, and I spoke about this. I've got the memorized minutes here. Of course, I was expecting the attack, but I didn't expect them to put the far-right Georgian front on the front. If it were at least someone else, it would be different.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u559	Mr President, I too would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u560	I was asked by the journalist "in favor of man, killing people"? And I said, "It's wrong. I am not in favour of any of this, just having a concept - I mean 17 November - of a society, of a good society in any case, and the bad ones had to be punished. Fascism..." and I am beginning to talk about fascism, which has a massive perception of murders, such as Jews, Communists, homosexuals and many others. So I said that I disagree with their understanding, and I disagree with everything they did by killing people, because human life is inalienable, etc. So I want there to be order at least on my behalf, and that is why I have taken the floor. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u561	Good, Mr. Balaura. But I would ask that we do not make personal reports. However, since you have referred to Mr Georgiadis, with a specific character, he has the floor to answer for a minute. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u562	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, this far-right candy is so old, that it makes no sense. I will tell you honestly and in good faith this. It would be very nice to get up and say that you made a mistake and said nonsense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u563	You've learned insults. I fully explained, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u564	Do you know why this is nonsense?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u565	Do not engage in dialogue, please, Mr Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u566	Don't be silly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u567	Because there is no graduation on the killers, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u568	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u569	And you cannot, sir, come to the House and justify them, even indirectly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u570	Don't twist what I said. I said another thing. It's convicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u571	Well, to finish it, these people are murderers, they killed people, they are terrorists and a member of the Greek Parliament is not understood, even indirectly, to defend them. So say you've made a mistake and leave the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u572	So close the debate. Mr. Georgiadis was wrongly mentioned beyond the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u573	I didn't say he was a good or a bad killer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u574	Let go, Mr. Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u575	No, Mr President, a phrase. It was heard in the House that I defended their lives. I said they were committing murders and that man's life is inalienable. It's over and out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u576	Brilliant. We're moving on with Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u577	Don't twist them. I've been against them for forty years in the mass movement. You're making a big mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u578	Come on, Mr. Voridis, to stop this dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u579	Thank you, Mr President. Murders for good are there? So that is a question for you to answer for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u580	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u581	I'm saying, are there murders for good?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u582	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u583	Good. I'm glad you didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u584	I never said that. Listen. You don't listen or read.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u585	I am pleased that you have not said so and that you have explained it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u586	Mr. Voridis, I have always opposed these logical and unilateral acts of killing people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u587	Good. Go on, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u588	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is just good, and because these are sensitive issues, because there are families with the dead, because there are people who have been very painful, no one is clean and no room for interpretation or misinterpretations. So that's simple. Nor can it be believed, ladies and gentlemen, that the problem that the government is going to cure today with these two amendments is, as such, independence, impartiality, transparency in the broadcasting field and in the field of competition. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, the last year's interventions made by this government at institutional level to see what kind of transparency you are serving. Changes of hospital commanders with an evaluation that was "monkey" and who were hospital commanders and those who were appointed appropriately removed, to be replaced by party officials. Listen, by party officers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u589	Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u590	Who are the party executives? Is this the result of a competition?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u591	Two...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u592	Please, we won't have a dialogue. Let Mr. Voridis go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u593	Mr. Barkas shows me fingers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u594	System, system!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u595	The system, the system! Listen too quickly, so we can finish it one by one. Do you want to make party placements? Don't let the Prime Minister come and laugh at us for what he's done. I can tell you again that those who have been positively evaluated by the "milikey" evaluation are turning them away. There aren't any! Secondly, Is there an amendment to remove the Chief of Greek Police? By way of amendment, the Chief of the Greek Police?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u596	No removal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u597	Wait, let's go down. Change the way the administrations are placed in the HEIs, a way agreed massively, with a huge majority of all the political forces coming you and changing him. We're moving on. Extraordinary police crises. For what? For no reason. Because we are rushing just to smuggle the real crises. I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u598	What are the emergency crises in the police?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u599	It's the well-known presidential decree. Wait and listen. Change the definition of managers in education. Ladies and gentlemen, this nice work called the construction of the SYRIZA party state is culminating in the debate on these two amendments. Actually, it's not complete. It's obvious we'll keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u600	All the time, we'll have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u601	So we shall now refer to this. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] What happened? You've lived.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u602	Please, ladies and gentlemen. It is not possible for the speaker and I to be constantly interrupted in order to impose order, so that the speaker is also lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u603	So I'm going to tell you the simple thing now. What does the Minister want to do in the broadcasting scenery? He wants to move on to the license. Is that correct? Yes, sir. We fully agree to move on. Why do you not accept our amendment, that is to say, that the PSE should decide on permits? Where's your problem? It's an independent authority. We'll agree to 4/5. We have agreed on the persons, their impartiality, their objectivity, their ability. Let us decide on this matter. Where's your problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u604	Why didn't you vote for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u605	Why do you not agree to dismantle the process, since you want to fight the conflict? You don't want to have anything to do with this stuff. You don't want to have an affair with transactions and interests. Dismantle the process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President. Thank you very much. Let's go to the ER, and we'll agree to 4/5. Why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u606	Because it's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u607	Who's gonna say that? If you agree and we agree and say it's not, who will offend it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u608	The Constitution defines it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u609	The Constitution, my colleague, does not say so. One, for example, the Council of State, says and is unconstitutional. Let me now that you have taken the constitutionality out of the cause of finding the PSE's responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u610	We have to review it then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u611	What interpretation did you make of this unconstitutionality? There aren't any now. Don't say anything! So, here it is a glorious field! Show us, Minister, that you don't want to party with the state. Let's go! And tomorrow we vote on the PSE! Oh, no! You want to build your own party state, to haggle with interests and, as much as anyone else, because of course the whole thing is the number of licences, because that will determine who lives and who leaves. That will also determine values. In fact, you want that too, too, so that values are great, so the transaction is great. The less the licenses, the greater the values. The greater the values, the greater the complexity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u612	Then why did it happen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u613	Who are you kidding? We don't. If you can mock your voters as long as you can, good luck. I shall now refer to the famous amendment tabled by the Committee on Competition. I would like to ask you this: since the intentions were thus pure, why did you end up with them being the major and the most interesting ones? Did you miss them? In other words, when you put in, Minister, that the Competition Committee will be disciplinaryly punished, when it does not comply with the Minister's recommendations in the context of his supervision, namely his ministerial decisions, what have you missed? What did you miss? Wasn't that an attempt to control that was revealed in Parliament and you had to collect it, when we tell you that you actually photographed the people you want to remove? I shall now refer to what is supposed to be the major, great dimension of transparency. Why don't you answer Mrs. Keramea? You must do so, because you are one of the ministers you are professing to maintain personal integrity. Mrs Kerameos says, "Would you do it for all the authorities?" Do it, so you can talk. Will you do it for the hordes of the ministers and the posters? Will you do it for the judges? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Wait. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, it seems funny to us. But it seems to me very funny to have someone who actually appoints brothers and cousins to public bodies and to the ECHO. Looks like a comedy to me. But I want to ask you something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u614	But finish with that, Mr Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u615	I shall conclude, Mr President. Since there is this big question of independence - why do you say you will, but do not - how do you reject a simple claim? That is what you say 'you' will do', I see what you are doing. What you have proposed today in this House to legislate is not a general principle. It's a very special principle that has a photo. The picture is Victory Kerameo's. That's what you're doing today. No general rules, no general provisions. A completely personalized and unambiguous provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u616	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u617	Because I would like to ask you who else is involved, apart from this particular provision, in order to accept that it is not photographic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u618	Good, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u619	We're clearing things up, Mr. Ministers. The left state, which you imagine will build, and above all the party state to know that because we have a democratic constitution and because we have independent justice, because we have militant and responsible opposition, you are not going to build it. Fly into the pit of disrespect that you themselves are digging.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u620	The Minister has asked for the floor for a minute. After the Minister, Mr. Cassidy will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u621	I'm gonna need a minute. I shall make two brief remarks. The first is, if I'm not mistaken, 4/5 hasn't been able to find it in two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u622	Let's find them tomorrow. You can accept the amendment, we can find them tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u623	Yeah, for two months. So, a little late you're making this proposal. You had every chance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u624	That's what we've told you from the start. Admittedly accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u625	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u626	Secondly, to be blamed by the New Democracy for a party state, for being blamed by the New Democracy for a transaction, it is for those who remember the Bible, as King Herod complains that we do not find enough son-in-laws for our girls to marry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u627	We're ruining the right state!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u628	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiaris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u629	I shall start with a major issue, a major social issue that has arisen in recent days. I am referring, of course, to the mobilisation of Greek farmers. I have a reply here, as a representative of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, to the Minister for Rural Development, Apostle, who issued a provocative statement. He accused farmers who reacted to the shameful measures of the government as "neutral-right", photographing the Golden Dawn. I have to tell the Minister it's not Golden Dawn those who wanted to be beaten in Komotini and Thessaloniki. The whole society wants to beat up all those who have signed up to serious anti-grassroots measures at the moment. Not everyone who reacts is the Golden Dawn. We'd be at 80% right now if they were all Golden Dawn. They are, however, Greek patriots, farmers who have fought against the government. That is why we honor and support their dynamic mobilisations and congratulate them. Farmers must be the pioneering of the national counter-attack against the Left Memorandum and be the nucleus around which professional drivers, taxi drivers and many other professions are already in existence, which are literally slashed by misguided government policy. As we have said several times, Merkel, the German economic oligarchy wanted a left government in Greece, wanted Tsipras Prime Minister in Greece, because it considered that there would be no responses to the resurrected and betrayal policy, which was implemented with a view to the commitment of the country's national wealth. It seems, however, that this plan is not going through. We have been living very critical days and the Greek people's overall reaction to the fighting, fighting Greek farmers in its leadership will lead to political developments. I call on the government not to use the police forces as a boxing bag. They have no obligation on Greek policemen, who are also patriots to become the bag of the boxing of the left government, when each Minister wants to make his show, either at the "AGROTICA" exhibition in Thessaloniki or elsewhere. I even heard that in Komotini, the Minister who issued the provocative announcement, Mr Apostolos, dressed a police officer to escape from the farmers' cage. He's got a cop's uniform on. He lifted the signals "Greek Police". We saw it in the photos. He was wearing the police jacket to escape the farmer's cord. This, dressing up the Minister of Police, whatever his intention, is a defamation of the Authority, you know! It is also persecuted by Greek legislation. From there on, the Golden Dawn stresses that it supports every fair popular reaction against SYRIZA's Memorandum Policy, which literally murders the country's rural world and all the Greeks that produce it. Of course, I also saw the representative of the New Democracy, Mr Kumucaco, referring to the issue, who had come here some time ago and accused us of attacking him. But he did not apologise when the prosecutor issued a finding in which he confirmed that there was no link between our party and the attack he was attacked. Unfortunately, you have all learned here to blame, to throw such fire at the expense of a party that expresses accumulated popular anger against your politics. So, as far as the New Democracy is concerned, let us put agricultural mobilisation aside, because your new president came to this step and in a crisis of honesty he told the truth. He said he's not with the tractors. And how could it be a Mitsotakis with the tractors? Unless the tractors were ‘SIEMENS’. If the "SIEMENS" were to make a tractor, we might also see the President of the New Democracy riding a tractor and going with it to "EKALI TENNIS CLUB" to play tennis. The Golden Dawn therefore supports all fair mobilisation against this terrible policy. That is why we have received a terrible warfare from the whole system of power, so that I can also come to the amendments which are of fundamental national interest. Because here we have an attempt by the left government to collide with the domestic stranding, to become a partner of interlocutory and to test the country's television scenery. Because it is clear that the intentions of Tsipras and the SYRIZA Government - ANEL are not to make the band intertwined. I'm sorry for the expression, but that's the only way we can express ourselves when we face this policy. It will not stop MEGA emiting, which should be stopped, because it owes hundreds of millions of euros to the Greek State. They won't stop emiting the intermittent channels. No one else, a new interconnecting player in the game, either way. I mentioned the name of Yanna Angelopoulou. The government's excellent major economic players live and reign, solve and bind. It was Gianna Angelopoulos who took Tsipras from the hand and led him to "Clinton Foundation", where with his public image he shared Greece internationally. I will say a few words about this amendment, because the President of Parliament insists and is here talking about consensus. What consensus do you speak of when the third political party in Greece has literally been deleted from the television scenery, when the representatives of the Golden Dawn, the third political force in Greece, have never been invited to present their positions? And I'm not talking about private interconnected channels, because we didn't expect that. You all know very well that since we are the only ones to call names in this Chamber, such as Bobolas, Alfouzos, Vardinoyannis, Nearmenias and all those who have borrowed hundreds of millions of dollars from the banks and who pay them through the recapitalisation of the banks and the Memorandum, they will not show us. Not even what the law and the constitution say are going to do. On the other hand, however, state television and ERT, which was founded by the left government, plays in the same dirty game and with a mandate from the Prime Minister himself, never has a single representative of the Golden Dawn ever been called on any political broadcast of the ERT, which Greek citizens incidentally pay for. The five hundred thousand voters of the Golden Dawn, who are excluded from the information, do the same. So I call on them from this step forward not to pay a fee again for ERT, because what is being done is completely illegal and unconstitutional and abolishing any concept of pluralism and democracy in Greece. By the way, I laughed before I listened to the representative of the New Democracy talking about independence of justice. The same person went out on all channels, before they arrested us, and said: “Golden Dawn MPs will be arrested and then confiscated and their party will be termed “criminal organisation”. In fact, on a show by Hatzinikolau at "STAR", on a small well on a break he had said that we have also found the prosecutor who will do this job. As to who these prosecutors were, I revealed them with very specific documentaries in this Chamber, with very specific records of the former Prime Minister's own talks. This is crimes that no one has yet paid for. But the time will come and those who have destroyed the Constitution in Greece will pay for these crimes. So I laugh when I hear such things. I come to the next amendment, the most important amendment on which the New Democracy raised an issue of unconstitutionality. However, it is not an amendment concerning Greece's social, political and economic life. As I said before, it is an amendment which concerns specific interests. In the Competition Committee is a Neo-Democrat, a New Democracy MP's wife, SYRIZA wants to dismantle this person and put one of his own, and the current government legislates, as the previous government itself, when it voted in the middle of the night for photographic amendments to get rid of bankers who gave sea-loving parties. The present government also operates in the same photographic way. But the New Democracy won't talk. They talked about political persecution and photographic provisions. It was the New Democracy that had brought very specific photographic law against the Golden Dawn, through which state funding was abolished in our party. That is what we need to talk about here all the time, the illegality that took place at the expense of the Golden Dawn, with the ultimate support of SYRIZA. Because we may see these korutisms for some appointments, for some positions in the competition committees and other high-paid public positions, but in practice, when the nationalist movement in Greece is hit, the New Democracy joins with SYRIZA. Hand - they voted in favour of illegal political persecution against the Golden Dawn. Hand - they voted for all these photographic and anti-constitutional provisions, whether to abolish our state funding or illegal waivers of immunity, all these crimes against us as natural persons, but at the expense of the Greek Constitution. As far as the PSE is concerned, of course, there must be this independent authority and must be honest judges and judges. Because what is being done at the expense of the third party in the country is a crime. The absolute silence of the political positions of the third political force of the country is a crime against the nation. So there is a National Broadcasting Council, not with the chosen members of the respective government, because, when we see that someone named Laocrates will be responsible for this body, we can be very sure of the tactics that are going to follow, or when a Janetakus comes in, proposed by SYRIZA, but who had come down with the New Republic of Nobleman - when I say that you are doing it and that you are both playing in the same game, I have very specific documentaries to which I am referring - who will be responsible for the new National Broadcasting Council proposed by the Minister of SYRIZA, coming out on the channels and saying: "Get back in anti-Gold Dawn." He called on some bums to break our heads. And he will now uphold legitimacy and pluralism! All that ridiculous, Golden Dawn denounces her. I have the law here - because we are always supposed to walk under the law - but no government, either of the New Democracy or of the SYRIZA has ever respected constitutional legitimacy. So what does n say? 2173 as regards the setting-up and responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council? "When the PSE is nine-member, the first party designates four members of it, the second party indicates two members of it and the third one as number of seats of Parliament," i.e. the Golden Dawn, "determines one regular and one alternate member". That is the consensus Mr Voutsis was talking about. You have not even invited us to indicate a member of the PSE. In this wide consensus, of course, in this war that the Golden Dawn party accepts, we are in no way going to collide and will not tolerate this crime against freedom of speech. An argument was put forward earlier in terms of Government, expressed by the President of Parliament. He says: “What about all the permits? The advertising pie is small and how will the canalarchs find money, so that the system can be legal and not go to other means and other illegal forms of funding?" The question is how they now find money! I should like to tell you how the canals now find money, and indeed what the tactics are going to do, whatever their regular and legislative initiative they take. The ‘MEGA’ is therefore borrowed by the banks. The point is, in order to borrow a citizen, he must have a fortune. "MEGA" presents itself as its asset - listen a little bit and freak out - a episode from the TV series "TSROYFAKIA", which is costing 1 million euros and on the basis of this nonsense there is a bank that gave nearly 100 million euros of money to Bobola. No one else is saying this in this Chamber, of course. That is why we are excluded from all the means of interacting. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will close with the reference to the notorious 'basic shareholder'. This is the law that can clear up the landscape in Greece. A key shareholder cannot, the public life pimp, who undertakes public works and receives hundreds of millions either through the NSRF or through bank borrowing, be at the same time a canalarch. Something has been said about the Commission as well. Greece is an independent state and each government has a sacred obligation to legislate in the interests of the Greek people. So you want to do something good? "Basic shareholder", cannot pimps, contractors, be at the same time canals and regulate, through the channels, the public life of the country. However, only one Golden Dawn government will be able to act in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u630	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-six students and two students and two teachers from the 1st General School of Thermaikos Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Papatheodorou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u631	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two main points arise from today's debate on the amendments by the Ministry of Economy and Mr Pappas. The first is that Mr. Stathakis has become glorified by Mr. Nikos Pappas. And believe me, it's not an example of imitation. It is an example of avoiding parliamentary legislation. The second finding is that today the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is allergy with the independent authorities. He's been chasing them for months. He's trying to dismantle them, intervenes because he can't remove them, so he can disable them, because that's the plan. We had also seen it when we discussed the relevant provisions on the PSE. With regard to the amendment tabled by Mr Stathakis, I will give you a number of provisions whose content violates the basic principles of law, the European acquis and simple reasoning. You are proposing that the President and the Vice-President of the Competition Committee leave automatically with the completion of the seventeenth year in the first and seventeenth years in the second. Who are you photographing, ladies and gentlemen? Why should the President leave the seventy-third, eighty-fifth, sixty-fifths, seventy-sevenths and, respectively, the Vice-President to what you are proposing? On what criteria do you arbitrarily define the age of the President or Vice-President? In relation to the age criteria of what you want to appoint or in relation to the age criteria of what you want to prosecute? It is a question, but it is not a sign of general and impersonality - I stress it in person, because we will see what the other proposals you make, the other provisions that you bring - the legislation, as the basic rule requires. Then put forward the incompatibility with the relationship between the President, Vice-President and Members of the European Parliament with - as you say - persons who have a parliamentary post or who are members of the European Parliament. First of all, we must not forget, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the basic political and legal terminology. There's no parliamentary office between us. There isn't. What exists is a member of the Greek or the European Parliament. Let's fix it. However, by recognising the Minister's sensitivity to such matters, I would like to add the following. I do not understand why the incompatibility with the cohabitation agreement is not extended, which we voted on the other day? Why don't we extend it to those who have entered into an engagement, commonly remorse? Why not? Why don't we extend it to those who have a partnership? And that could be inconsistent. I am not expanding any further, because we are going to get more relationships and I think that is where we are going to get more confusing. But the Minister told us something serious today. He told us that the European Commission's directive talks about the need to avoid political influence. We're with him. Are you limiting political influence by this regulation? You know that the Union legal order primarily does not combine political influence with a marital relationship, but with a relationship of dependence, with relationships which create manipulation procedures against the Competition Committee. You don't do none of this. And I ask: why is the relationship with the Member of the Greek and the European Parliament only creating incompatibility? May I suggest you? With a non-parliamentary Minister of the Government, can it not create incompatibility? With a special Secretary-General, can't he create incompatible? So no sign of this, as the Minister said. I do not think that what it proposes is serious legal arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u632	Member of the government, Mr. Comrade. You said 'Minister'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u633	Secretary-General?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u634	Member of the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u635	Political influence can be exercised by a series of relationships, dependencies and manipulations, which you certainly did not just think about, but I think it is not about membership. It bothers us that you legislate ad personam, legislate for faces and not for situations. That is the problem of today's amendment. And we're going on. On the other hand, you propose a series of disciplinary offences. disciplinary offences are also legally unclear and lame. What does it mean to members of an Independent Authority? Mr. Stathakis withdrew and withdrew today. What does that mean? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, thirty seconds. It means that we talked all day about the same disciplinary offences Mr Spirtz and Mr Papapas had brought in the ERR last time and Mr Spirtz withdrew them, and the Minister withdrew them. Why do we not understand that in this way we do not protect the Independent Authority? We are simply showing the government's disdain for the Independent Authorities, which it wants to control. Who are you afraid of? Who are you afraid of and want to control the Independent Authorities? Because I read something else, and please, not the lawyers of us, who understand and speak Greek. Do you know how the issue of the disciplinary board arises? It says in it that the person concerned may request Minutes. Are you sending a member of the Independent Authority to the Disciplinary Board and the person concerned will receive Minutes from the proceedings? Where have you seen it? What kind of procedure have you seen this in? And I'm ending up. You change the terms of service of the authority, Director-General, Heads, to change the same after all. In fact, you want your own Committee on Competition with another chairman, with other members, with another Vice-President. Say it, there's no problem. I am sure the co-legislators will vote for it. We're just going to vote against it. But say it so that things are clear. Why? Because that won't be an independent authority. It's going to be a janitor of a ministry. It does not suit the provisions of the Law on Independent Authorities what you bring.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u636	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u637	I shall conclude, Mr President. The problem is that such practices do not remind at all of a European country, but a declining partisanism that insists on ruling with recipes for the worst times of the past. With such practices you show how far SYRIZA is from the European acquis, how much he does not have it and how much he can never get it, because he grew up in his denial. I urge you, Minister, to withdraw it. It does not pay tribute to such an amendment and does not help the independence of the independent authorities, nor does functionality or administrativeity. In any case, we are voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u638	We are moving on with Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos from the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u639	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's bill both the rapporteur and the other Members have covered a very large part of our arguments. But, Mr President, I would really expect you to see Mr Tsakalotos in the Chamber and other ministers, to ask them to come and answer questions. I would remind you - you were present in the last week's procedure - that you yourself raised the matter and said that it is unacceptable that the ministers are not here to answer our questions. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been very sensitive to some issues over the last few years and now you have forgotten them. You know, what with the complexion - and in the last five years at least I have lived, and for that I will talk to you - early, midday and evening, the expressions of private channels have been a hug - a hand with what you and I have said. Hand-hand, go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u640	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u641	Hand - hand you would go with all the representatives of interlocutive, antimony- these, anti-immemorial and you too. So today, what has to be done is tighten up the rules, come here and tell us which rules we'll put from here and beyond for any channellor. Because this is not about economic interests alone. It's a question of democracy, Minister. You are very sensitive and you want to make a proper assessment. Mr. Paulakis, when he assesses the hospital managers, he looks in their eyes, he says. I wonder where Mr. Pappas looks at them! I wonder where Mr. Pappas will look at them to give them permission. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And since, ladies and gentlemen, you are very sensitive to the workers, as you have shown to the ERT and I have heard Mr Voutsi - who reminded me of his old role, there in the ministerial seats at the time, which was nothing if he had not been given the floor, and if he did not pass by, not as President of Parliament, but as a representative of the SYRIZA - who said that advertising pie is not enough for many channels. Let's agree. ERT doesn't even get 1% of the advertising pie. From the 350 million in 2015 it has not even received 4 million. So we should make a provision for those who will be fired from the channels, Mr Minister, to appoint them to the ERT to be consistent, with respect for people who serve the right to the press and who are workers. In other words, the two thousand workers paid by the state budget - and there must be ERT - have nothing to do with advertising pie? And the people who will be fired tomorrow? Will you appoint them? Get a provision to convince us that ERT may not be a private store, but it's a SYRIZA store. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Now Mr Stathakis is a case which I do not think has an answer. He has no answer. I will give you an example, ladies and gentlemen. I will tell you what he has said - not what we have said - on another issue to understand. In his speech on the New Democracy's topical question, he says that 'the absorption of the NRP is 21.87 billion'. One day later, in response to the Ministry of Development in "Kathimerini" and to me it says that it is 20.21 billion. He's always had a problem with the millions. Now he's got billions. I mean, that's where 1,5 billion is missing. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because you are very sensitive - and you are welcome in my view - when Mr Leventis said that you took the pants down, you disapproved him. Do you know what the problem is with you? When Mr Kammens said 'four, four and four', you applauded him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u642	We're moving on with Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for five minutes. Will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u643	I'll talk from here, yeah. First of all, we have to say that there has been more discussion about the amendments than about the bill and it concerns a very important issue. I, of course, have asked for the floor for the amendments which show the government's anguish to go through some legislative things, so that action can be taken...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u644	Mr. Kegeroglu...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u645	What did you say, Mr. Armacler? Did you say something? Ask for the floor on the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u646	Don't interrupt. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u647	The government shows, Mr President, that it is trying to control matters of multiple allergy. Mr Papatheodorou mentioned earlier. Transparency allergy. That is why he has tried many times to'strengthen' the clarity. Allergies to parliamentary control. That is why the ministers who were saying other things before are now saying that they have nothing to tell us. Only yesterday, one of the nineteen questions was canceled, seventeen. In total, 68% is not being discussed - unfortunately - because of a hindrance - it says - but at the same time we see them in Kolonaki and in restaurants. And I'm telling you, honestly. I don't go into names today, because yesterday I ran into two. Allergy to merit and objective evaluation. We have seen the'monitor' evaluation of the previous days for hospital administrations. We said it would be limited, only Paulis is with Blonde. No, no, no, no, Today the results for training directors came out. After the thirteenths of the aptitude process in Greece, they should be twelve Syrians and an ANEL. This happened! Everyone else is down! We had the procedures for the seniors of secondary and primary school. Three dials went in. Don't let anyone get away from us! One key was by voting, the second one by molecules with certain criteria, and the third by interview. Well, the results announced today are: the second, third, fourth, in some cases were found first. We did not get the vote there because moleculosis did not help these people because obviously others were more qualified. The interview? That was the same thing! I was here by Mr Philadelphia who had appointed a five-member committee, which is why the Committee of Friends, which is why the Committee of Friends - but hostile to the concept of democracy, transparency and the people who were interested in being judged as head of secondary and primary. It's disgraceful! It's disgraceful! It's disgraceful! The evidence is available to the House. We'll testify. After all today, but also in the next few days with parliamentary intervention, if the ministers come to discuss them. I now come to two amendments. The other day, Mr. Stathakis brought her. In 20 minutes he took her back. And again today he brought her back. I do not know what is the reason to pass an unrelated amendment to an unrelated bill and, above all, not to be well-built. Because he admitted that legally it was not a good amendment. You broaden what you say about the appointments of relatives, friends, spouses, contract and free-living, of the only democratic, as my friend Spyros Lykoudis said. You are broadening it to the other institutions. Why is this only here? So the wife of a minister who is commander at the National School of Public Administration doesn't have a coma? Of course, in this case, I heard that they would change the Minister. I mean, Kuvelis is coming in, he says, Minister of Justice, and he's leaving today's husband. But we have other cases with recent cases the today appointed husband's assistant minister's organization. He's a general secretary. Are the incompatible ones not applicable elsewhere? Only on the committee concerned and only on one particular one? Everywhere incompatibilities! I shall conclude, Mr President, with the PSE. Unfortunately, the government has also sought dismantling for the PSE, as for all the authorities. Legislative intervention has undermined the principles without ensuring that they are formed. Lucky? New Democracy was the recipient of the complaint that the procedure was blocked because of the election of its President. But I don't think that's all it was. It was also the control, who would be the people who would enter, who would be the majority of the 4/5 that would form the PSE. Where we have arrived with the proposals and the revelation that has been made, the government must reveal the real intentions. For the first time I see a provision saying 'I bring one provision which provides for another to come'. In law! Can you find me a law, a legislative act that says there's going to be another law? I know authorisation for a presidential decree, I know authorisation for a joint ministerial decision and for a ministerial decision. Authorization for another law for the first time I see. Why is the government doing it? Because it votes for this provision and for the next few days it will negotiate with those who want to give and those who want to save. Here's the big complication. To the people he wants to save. We'll see the liquidation of big companies that have channels that they won't get to save and don't pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u648	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u649	This is the big complication. It's bigger than the one that's got to do with the people they're going to give. Because they're going to another legal person and Malta and Cyprus and anywhere else. To end a story that is heard, Mr President, I would like to say that the special advertising fee, which says that the channels are not paid for, is the advertisers. The advertisers pay for it, the companies. Where and how far do they say they don't pay the channels? Advertising people pay this special fee and have to go to the public funds. To get the government's amendment back and to show consensus in a composition of the PSE. Of course, before that, the conditions will apply. They must inform us of the political intentions that have to do with the number of licences, which cannot be politically defined, but must be determined on the basis of which applicants and must meet certain minimum conditions. Whether a businessman is viable in the context of competitiveness has many parameters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u650	Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u651	Mr. Friend won't judge. I can't judge it today either. Because otherwise we must judge the viability of all economic activities and prohibit companies being set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u652	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor for five minutes, as a parliamentary representative. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Loverdos will speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u653	Ladies and gentlemen, our debate today is taking place while we have two critical processes that are taking place concerning our country and Europe. One is, of course, the threat of the European Union's own identity through the threat of having Schengen fronted our country. Our country also suffers an injustice. At the same time, however, our country is going without a plan like an abomination in the sea. There's no plan. You have had a great obligation, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, not only to have a plan, but to notify it to the opposition parties who are here, to the bodies of society that are outside and to be able to contribute all of us to this great tragedy, the tragedy of Europe and, above all, the tragedy of the refugees. If you wish, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to invoke the human dimension, which we of course have invoked, at the same time you should have a plan for it. But you don't. At the same time everything's stuck. Mr. Katrugalos brings back and regains various provisions of an insurance policy which not only breaks the production order in Greece and especially in the younger generations, but also reduces pensions despite the continuing lies of both Mr. Tsipras, Prime Minister and Mr. Katrugalos, that pensions will not be cut off. The country is hovering. There's no evaluation. They've stopped everything. The government, while it doesn't have a plan for the refugee, what does it do? It has been linked for a long time, and we had warned that the debt problem should not be linked to the refugee case and you did so. And you're accountable for this. Inside that you are a government that is being taken over. Why are you here, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, calling for the people to vote for you. Yes, the people voted for you. Why? First, for hope to come. Where's the horn? Second, so we can get this over with. So what are we talking about today, ladies and gentlemen? The badest appearance, the badest form of this old one. And how's that? And if there were any earlier extensions and problems in the badest times of Postmulsion, you come and take them to the ninth with a provision of the current law that the Minister decides and orders how many licenses we have in the digital age! Be careful, you who want to end up with the old one, come and legislate in terms of the pabalaius, which has overtaken you. You're out of technology, people, reality. Why? To make the dagger. Others said it before me. So this arrangement is older than the old one. Retire her. And it doesn't make any sense, because what are you doing? The Minister will come to suggest to us MPs. And I am sorry, I do not know how to assess either multipliers, ladies and gentlemen, nor other techniques which can or cannot have the channels. I would, however, like to come before me and discuss it, a provision setting out rules on facilities, adequacy, staff and possibilities. Because these rules, ladies and gentlemen, could really put a class in the landscape and take into account the digital dimension that cannot limit the number. But you can do the canals and you can do it! Don't make fun of us! I would therefore expect a government that wants to be the new one, to invite the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, for example, and to bring in by the Minister responsible - many have said so, I would like to say that - some rules for incompatibility, to be discussed and applied for everyone and for everything. But bringing an amendment with special provisions on special ages of President and Vice-President of the Competition Committee has never been made! Which Poland? We've been through this! We've overcome this in authoritarianity, photographic devices. Photographic devices! Why? To check everything. To impose a regime of your own. You said it and you'll do it. You'll try to do it. However, because the Greek people did not see any hope, neither did they see light, but the new one is also waiting, this new one will come. And when the new SYRIZA whistle that doesn't have a compass is coming, she's smuggling into the sea, unfortunately she'll sink. But the country must survive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a minute, as you have given the others. The country must go forward, and that is why consensus is required. And instead of there being consensus, we have photographic provisions, we have old rules, and we have a Prime Minister who, at the same time as he wants - to make a consensus, not only does the opposition, populist and demagogic, but puts one social and professional class against the other. What progress, really! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u654	Thank you to Mrs Christophilopoulou and to respect time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u655	Can I speak after Mrs. Gara? Because they spoke three of our team.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u656	Yes, all the Members of the PASOK Democratic Assent are written together. You're right. Mrs. Gara from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u657	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised and am impressed! I am surprised and am impressed by the things I hear in the Greek Parliament today. in a parliament which should serve and defend legitimacy, defend transparency at all levels of economic, business, political and institutional life. I am really surprised by the parties of interlocutory speaking and accusing SYRIZA of struggling! I'm surprised! I'm surprised to hear so much lies in here! I am surprised to hear the 'rools' of the Internet as political arguments! A little respect for our instrument, at least! A little respect! So I am continuing to say that I would expect the same passion that you are defending the complexity and non-legality and expressing your arguments, and that you have also expressed your proposals on insurance, such as seizures of agricultural subsidies, private insurance, zero-debt clause, pension cuts. Why do not you defend them with passion and only the President of the Police Department said so, and the rest of the Members did not repeat them? So on our point. I shall refer to the two amendments, and not to the draft legislation that we are debating today. For the first amendment, I am again surprised by the sincere and irresponsible defence from Anti-Policy, familyism and opacity, even to the independent authorities. As far as the Committee on Competition is concerned, we are introducing a provision that strictens the conditions for membership of the members by shielding their independence from related relations between the political system and independent authorities. I don't think anyone can argue with that. We have one case that has been mentioned before. It's not personal to you. We're commenting on your qualities. Well and legally, then, Mrs Kerameos' new husband participates in the institution in which she participates. However, the argument put forward by the Officerate is a photographic provision concerning the provision that we are introducing. Is it a photographic provision for the democratic shielding of the authorities? And do you, gentlemen, support this, where you are, and where you stand, accuse SYRIZA of family rule and partisan rule? What political morality pushes you to such arguments? And I would agree with Mrs Keramos that these provisions and the greater and more democratic shield of the independent authorities should apply to all authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u658	Put it everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u659	And we suggest it to the ministers too to bring such provisions in order to shield our entire political system from family rule. And I think we'll all agree on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u660	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u661	So we can't talk, by making the beginning, about photographic devices. I shall now proceed to the second amendment on television licences. Again I am surprised by the sincere defence of non-legislative procedures and an illegal broadcasting landscape for twenty-five years. In order not to break the abscess, not to enter order, not to observe legality, you bring dozens of pretexts with lame arguments. Even a distortion of the existing constitution occurs! In the first year of the university, as I come from the media sector, we learned Article 14 on freedom of expression and Article 15 on broadcasting. Broadcasting is therefore subject to State control. It's a saying in the Constitution. The Broadcasting Council is responsible for checking the contents of legal operation and compliance with the Code of Conduct. It's been clear and said long ago. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'd like the two minutes the Vice President owes me. So let us analyse the substance of the matter. Anyone who speaks of an unlimited digital frequency range or is technologically irrelevant or conceals the service of other purposes. Ask the experts. I'm not going to analyze them. I'm on my way. Are the frequencies public good? It is. We've all agreed on that. Is it the responsibility of the legally elected bodies of the democratic culture to defend public goods? I guess it is. Well, here you go. It's up to the House to legislate and decide. What are we afraid of? What are we afraid of? The legislative procedure stipulates the presentation of studies, data, suggestions, open and public dialogue and with society, co-creation, rhetoric, persuasive exercise, arguments, transparency. What are we afraid of? But you're afraid. Fear why you cannot openly cover up and defend the existing and legal functioning of the channels. How to clear the window when everything is put into public and open dialogue? And here you suspect in a serious blow: In your word you photograph and match licenses with channels. Wrong! We will agree on the number of licences, the competition will be held by the Television Council and anyone who fulfils the conditions of the law will participate in the tender. Who prevents existing channels from participating in the tendering procedure, in addition to the terms and conditions laid down in the recently adopted law? Why, then, do we not promote this legal process if we are all clear? Why are we blocking it? What are we afraid of? The answers are obvious and are related to your clientele relationships that you have set up among your party spaces with canalarchs for forty years. They are interoperable, service of interests, cover up illegality and tolerance of full immunity. And I continue with the recommendation of the Independent Authority of the Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u662	And finish this fast, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u663	Wait a minute. It is an independent authority that you so much defend and want to give it increased competences, while at the same time you do not contribute to its creation. Apart from the fact that your attitude is undemocratic and unconstitutional - I mentioned it before - beyond defending the illegal operation of media in an anarchist broadcasting landscape, there is also something behind your refusal to contribute to the creation of the Broadcasting Council. The channels are now outraged! They are blatantly violating the Code of Conduct and there is no control! It is like defending that there is no College of Auditors, ILO, and defending tax evasion, that no one controls them. So I conclude, and I say: we are aware of the clientele, political and economic relations you have with the operating media. We know that your political existence is directly linked to their illegal operation and their immunity. You too have accepted that legality must be respected. However, by political forces, which call themselves reformers, as modern Europeans, as pillars of legitimacy, we would expect more responsible and democratic moves. Do you deny our constitutional function? Do you deny legality? Are you undermining the role and responsibility of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u664	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u665	I shall conclude, Mr President. Do you want us, the legitimate and democratically elected representatives of the people, to perpetuate the illegal operation of businesses when even the operation of patrols needs permission? And I ask: do we want healthy and sustainable businesses? Do we want healthy working relationships and wages? Do we want businesses that respect their obligations and pay their contributions to the state? Not only do you want, but you have even reached the extreme point of extortion within the Greek Parliament, stressing just now Mr Vorides that there will never be a competition, will never be the broadcasting board. Example of democracy and constitutionality! So here's Rhodes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u666	Mrs. Gara, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u667	I'll be done. Excuse me. We do not often speak of the MPs. Your tolerance, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u668	No, it's not like that. I'm sorry. You've exceeded all my tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u669	Mr. Venizelos spoke three times a year. So please...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u670	I don't know about Mr. Venizelo. I know about when I'm here in the Chair. Please, close your proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u671	I'll finish in thirty seconds. I'm closing my sentence. Here is Rhodes, here is the House, here's our area of responsibility for respecting the Constitution and legality, to prove together that we want to strike the conflict, respect the legitimacy, put order, create the field of healthy competition and entrepreneurship, and put a stop to immunity and return a page to that country. And finally, keep in mind that no matter how much the Greek people put their pretexts, neither is Parliament blackmailed. Enough! Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u672	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u673	I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that we have forgotten what is the main piece of legislation we are here for today. We are here to incorporate a directive and indeed with very useful content. That is why most parties have expressed themselves positively and voted positively. So let's start from there, because this is the basis of our work on which the amendments of the ministers who deviated almost 100% of today's debate were structured. I would therefore remind you that in the basic text, for which we are here today, we are positive. Let me say one more thing. When Mr Fortsakis raised the objection of constitutionality, a number of issues were raised. And, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you have noticed a legislative improvement of the Minister. The case of 13A, paragraph 2, subparagraph (c) and - I think - (d) was eliminated. He's gone. What I pointed out in my support of part of the objection, my observation, that you cannot say - what Mr Spirtz said in October - that it is a disciplinary misconduct for the members of the PSE administration if they do not follow the acts, decisions of the Minister and at the same time claim that this principle is independent, has been accepted. And from what I have been informed by both Mr Papatheodorou and other colleagues, all this weekend, the Minister receives such comments from him at a level of 3 p.m. However, because - as I said this morning - there are repeated interventions in the area of independent authorities, whether the Constitution provides or does not provide for them, we also see how they think, we see their political will. Filled with wickedness are the provisions! In any case, you accept it, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that we are saving things through confrontation and conflict. And how does that look? The fact that we're removing them. As the provisions stand, can we vote on them? The amendment Statakis? We cannot vote for it. With his speech on the issue of Mr Keramea, which concerns, ladies and gentlemen, the present composition of the institution, he intervenes not as he has corrected for the president and vice-chairman, admitting his failure and wickedness for the next composition of the institution, but intervenes in the composition of the institution at the present time and invents a block here with a clear party criterion. Colleague, you have universal support. And for those who said something against me, I saw the climate of the debate, you also convinced me of your intervention. So don't worry. I do not know what colleagues will vote for, but on moral grounds you have won. So I say that he is intervening with the present composition. That's unauthorized. We denounced it on intervention from Katorugalos and Katrugalos withdrew then. We are talking about March, if I remember well, when he intervened in the present composition of the independent authorities. Have you also forgotten that it reduces from four to three years the term of Director-General for Competition and Directors of the Authority who are active? And to sum up and I refer to the current President of this House, finally this speech of 24 October on the independent authorities where he helped you? Where did he help the country? What helped the objects for which the Constitution, but also the law on the independent authorities, have introduced these independent principles? Nowhere. On the other hand, most of them cannot function today because there are loose ends. And our position, ladies and gentlemen of the majority - listen to it once again and respect it - from the attitude of the Ministers - the Minister of Stathakis in this regard - shows that he has helped. We now go to the other part, to the part of the other amendment, which has dealt with so much and with so much tension, this for the Television Council. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the morning very high tension did not allow the substance of the argument to be heard about the government's practice. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are not in the Conference of Presidents, there we and other parties, such as the Association of Centres, the New Democracy, the Potami, said that if the competence of the Broadcasting Council comes back, if it is delegated to its natural recipient, the independent authority, the Broadcasting Council, then we are ready to agree on the composition of the Board of Directors of the PSE, which is not forgotten by the majority that the President of this Parliament proposes and has made his thoughts known. It's not naive. He's suggesting it. There is therefore, within the PSE, the institutional guarantee and the condition that things should not be done as the Minister says, as you have the responsibility to propose most. You realize that, when you're not listening, a involvement is being created. This morning I appreciated her as deliberately involved. Because when you know that ten days ago, so many parties have told you, without which you do not have the 4/5 that the law defines, but do you not listen to them and insist on them, and with intelligence - Mrs Christophilopoulou said so - to imagine us three hundred to study proposals on the capacity of the new technology? Isn't that funny, in addition to the other legal and political arguments we expressed this morning? It is. Imagine yourself as an evaluator of the number! Anyway, I'll be right back. Since this was made clear by four parties at the Conference of Presidents, why are you insisting on the same method and on spooning? Not the Minister, the parliamentary majority that supports him. Why are you insisting? At the next conference, you're going to meet the same cause again, and the issue is blocking. Minister, do you want this blockage? You want it. It's proud. For what would you have suffered, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, if you had been adapted and had obtained a consensus? My legal education allows me to say to the House - and with courage - that Article 15(2) of the Constitution introduces legal control. And the legislator determines this legality. I have no objection to that. It set stricter elements and criteria in October - many of them are wrong - the Broadcasting Council on the basis of criteria and the technological capabilities and criteria of the legislator, yours. He'll see who's responding and who's not responding. I told Mr. Pappa this: Mr. Pappa, what are you? A market? Are you the market? You're not the market. You are a rapporteur in the House, a minister to give criteria. The Minister gave the criteria. I'm telling you, a lot of them are wrong. The majority voted. The judge will judge them if they are constitutional. But the PSE, the National Broadcasting Council, will do all the rest. You'd have unlocked the process. You blocked her on purpose. In the meantime - listen to this - for the other independent authorities there is no urgent Minister. No one has proposed that the procedure should be initiated, nor has the President of the Parliament put forward proposals on those which do not have so much issues of day-to-day political controversy. And that, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, makes us say that something wicked is in your mind. It's time. Note that you've made a birthday. A year you torture this issue and it is blocked and stable at the same point, at zero! And you've destroyed the authorities! They can't work. With four members, however, the Broadcasting Council and Ms Alexiou worked. Mrs Alexiou is not my political relative, nor am I interested in what she is. But I know from the Council officials that he has been working lately. His weaknesses have been unlocked. And now you've left it with a member and insisted on something blind! What's that brutal blind force? The majority? She doesn't pass here, because there's the institutional guarantee of 4/5. Rethink it, because if you don't think about it again - and we talk to you otherwise - these involvements will be lasting and permanent. And we'll confirm what we're telling you. You want this, firstly, to keep you open and have some hostages, and secondly, because now you understand what we told the Minister of State that from where you were going in October, it is not coming out. It's beerang! You'll be involved in an adventure from which only defeats you have to make. Fourthly and lastly, I shall end. Ladies and gentlemen, on the part of the Democratic Independence we made two calls yesterday - and other parties were shot - at the Deputy Minister for Refugees, for refugees and immigration, Mr Muzala. At the same invitations of this House when we discussed the budget, he had responded, he had come. There was a parentheses in the procedure. It is a national issue and it concerns everyone. The president of the Democratic Association asked the Prime Minister for a meeting on this matter. And this meeting will take place. That's not about fighting. There are responsibilities in the government, in the Ministry of Christodoulou and others, manifesters and have been attributed. But there is also a development that tortures the country. And as we said yesterday and what was done on the 25th day of the month with the Yunger statements, which he said is positive towards the initiative of the Slovenian Prime Minister, and what was heard by the Belgian Prime Minister and others, we are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, that if our northern borders are closed, the entire wave of immigrants and refugees will reside here. I said that every time a Greek official leaves for the outside, he also returns with a larger city of immigrants - refugees in Greece. How much is that going to be? Where's that going? And while we are told that there are several million people available from the European Union - I asked the Deputy Minister, he did not have a picture of the amount reserved for the country, but we hear that it is too large - we learn at the same time - I say with every reservation because the information I have is secondary - that of all that 40,000 euros has been raised. What are you doing? What does the government do about it? We ask and our disposal is really honest. We don't want to collide about it. Our country cannot afford to collect all the evils of the rest of the planet. We can't. No matter what humanity each one has, we can't handle it. And we should all be careful together. We have to deal with this with great responsibility, but we do not know, we do not know. We see developments, we read them many times and we despairfully say that we must intervene, we must all be united in this regard, but with the Government present and up-to-date. Where's the Minister this time? Why doesn't it look sensitive? Why does it not show the sensitivity that this House shows to him? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I visited the Greek at the celebrations. I have seen the problem and, in an interview with the 'REAL FM', I have spoken - although the inhabitants of the region feel that they have many problems - about a problem under control, including Mr Muzala. The weeks are over. Do you remember him when he was kind enough to come here, discussing the budget, and we made that intervention, telling us that in a few days, in the middle of December, the four hotspots will be ready? Do you remember that? And we're still reading on the news today, he's not coming here to tell us that one has been prepared and the other three will. We notice these. We're holding it up. We underline them. We're doing it. And because we're doing it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u674	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u675	I'm closed, Mr. President. It is precisely because we once again call on the relevant Minister and the government to respond to the circumstances and to inform us. Because we don't have an update. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u676	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-five students and two teachers and two teachers from the 1st General School of Thematic Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u677	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u678	Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u679	Wait a minute, Mr. President. We hear too many arguments and a criticism of the government on two main issues. One is the issues of anxiety, but the governments that went through this place forget that the officials from the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Potami who went through the ministries have left such a "lightwork" behind them, such documentation, so many elements that I don't need to lose a second. So let's go to the point. You come here and you teach us lessons on interacting issues and you ask questions and you ask us to tell you about laws. Don't rush, we'll answer. Let us remind those who do not remember: 2010 Law, a very good law, a memorandum law, a television advertising tax. What did you do with him? At the same time as your parrots in the eight-language bulletins, where you get the conversations to make them in here,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u680	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u681	...they went out and told you "what about the memorandum?", you postponed every year the imposition of this television advertising tax, which was imposed in 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u682	Who's he burdening? The channels or the advertisers? The advertisers are benefiting, not the channels!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u683	I know it's bothering you, but keep your temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u684	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u685	Why don't you take it so long? Protecting the advertisers? Is that why you did this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u686	You're lying! You don't know anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u687	Please! In your place!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u688	In 2015, according to data from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, 39,300,000 euros have been established and 19,228,000 euros have already been collected. Answer the citizens for the millions you have given all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u689	Thank you, Minister. The President of Parliament, Mr. Nikos Voutsis, has the floor. Then, Mr Dannelly, will Mr Leventis, a speaker, speak for a while, and then you will speak. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u690	Ladies and gentlemen, I have in mind only one point to make on the subject of the television landscape and the crucial issue of sustainability. However, in their speeches Mr Loverdos and Mr Venizelos earlier asked some questions about a major issue, namely the refugee issue now, for which I would like to give some clarification, since I was also the Minister responsible in the previous period until August and I know a lot of things, of course, about this matter. I want to tell you straight away that the tale of sums that the present government has not received because it was unorganised, precisely because there are circles now in Brussels that will intensify it, reproduce it and want to create a state of guilt for our country, I would ask that it not be repeated in this Chamber. It's a fairy tale. Mr Avramopoulos also knows that he is well aware of this, because the decision on this issue was taken in May - if I am not mistaken - for the next five years and concerns actions in particular, not even the 30 million, for example, which the country needed in July. They were not given for the real needs we had as a country at the time, but for specific actions, which involved another design. In other words, at that time, you remember, for example, that there was an attempt to charter ships to make the routes or became the Botanic, that centre over there or other things. I could report to you all the actions of that time. None of these actions were given either euros. The country didn't even get euros! Because Brussels is aware of this and we too are well aware of it, not to fall victim to a misinformation which is now being realised by these circles - and, fortunately, they are not all and fortunately, I say, they are not even major ones - who want to push our country out of Schengen and, indeed, to become camp and humanguards for hundreds of thousands of people. I'm telling you, it's a lie. There was money. There was no question of incapacity. It was other actions. They require other actions, such as, for example, specific centres throughout the country, which have now entered the decision in November. You referred to the six hotpots, one of which is ready, four others are still on the way to the end with deadline, as far as I know, for 15 February and one is blocked. I'm not talking about this island. You know there's the contrast - let's say - of the mayor, and that's why he's stalling. So the second one, which took place after November, concerns part of these sums, which have still not been disbursed. When the country literally extinguished the bottom of the economic conditions - February, March, April, and especially summer - the country paid for what was done in the summer on the islands with immigrants and refugees. I now tell you real things which, if you'll excuse me, are very serious. In other words, no euro was granted. Even the Botanic, which is a model centre - take note - recognised by the European Union for storage and presence, as it is said - is not a detention - has not been paid either in the minds, as has also been done with the boats. Well, look it up, please. These are very sensitive issues, to which I would not refer, as you can see, because alas, if Ministers are closing their term of office, or if they know what is happening now - as in any case, do you realize that I know, let's say, the government or the Ministerial Council - everyone would go out and say for granted - a batch, right? - the evidence. However, I am referring to the fact that I see a tendency to support and support or, in any case, to tolerance. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Parliament is ringing.]] Allow me. I repeat that I see a trend towards tolerance to a campaign, which may be at the beginning of the campaign against the country, in order to show the impossibility of preparing and organising - my fellow Members - while that is not what this is all about. For further information, I know that the President of the Democratic Association has also asked the Prime Minister to be informed. And here Mr Mouszalas obviously wants a debate to be held, which you have asked for from there, in order to formulate a further response as a national strategy. That is correct, but not to be hostage to this effort now being done against the country by specific circles, not by everyone or the whole of the European Union. We mustn't see conspiracy and that we're all chasing us. There are too many who say to congratulate the Greeks on how they acted. I'm not just talking about the people who ask the islanders to take Nobel. There are surnames of the European Union from many countries who want to congratulate our country and our people on how we have beenhaved, with what solidarity, in a problem, which was obviously unpredictable to all of them. In relation to licences, I would like to raise an issue which needs to be clarified. We must not leave here today without clarifying it. Don't refer to the market! Mr President, I am saying this for you too because you will come to Stepma later and you are experienced and - as I said this morning - I think you are unreserved. Let us not refer this to the market. Any politician in charge says "Let it be said, are you businessmen?", "Let the market and advertising solve it," is wrong under the Constitution. Because it obviously applies to newspapers, the press and the sites where everyone can make a blog. He obviously survives or doesn't survive. For the frequencies that are State-owned under the Constitution, the constitutional article has been specifically provided for. So, who says: ‘Let my child show the market now in a time of crisis? May have closed a three-year-old channel, leaving damage to 500 million, other than workers - I'm not referring by name -,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u691	But he announced it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u692	Everyone may say that they have terrible survival problems now, but let it go, the market will show. Excuse me, but don't we get out of finding money from elsewhere? I live there, in the "other" and everyone can understand. Never the conversation... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Kutsuko, please! I submitted to you in the Minutes this morning some of the debates that took place between 2004 and 2008, before judging, with a large advertising pie, much larger than the current one, where many surnames and well-known journalists, directors, publishers, canalarchs at the forums of BSE and others, as I mentioned, for the only thing they were fighting - and rightly - as the landscape was then, after fifteen years illegally for everyone, and their only concern was economic sustainability. When this size does not come in for discussion, there is one - my clients - technical debate about how many people the digital spectrum fits - it fits multiples than proportional and proportional was more than they took and bankrupt - that is not the issue. We're not having a technical conversation here. Obviously, we are interested in workers, for example, because we are particularly sensitive to not being unemployed and at the same time stopping the gala, the medieval ways in which they now work on several channels. Obviously, we care about that. Be careful because there is a solution to this. You testified to your sensitivity. There will be dozens of thematic channels and regional, dozens of themes throughout Greece. There you have made the mistake, when I told you that you do not know the matter and technically and politically in his interpretations from there onward. We are not talking here about permits for the thematic pan-Hellenic channels that can be forty, twenty-seven, thirty-three and also absorb a large part of the workers, journalists, administrative and other people. This isn't about it. The whole debate in Europe, and here we are talking about pan-Hellenic news reports with a full programme on a 24-hour basis and with specific norms and conditions that will constitute, express and testify to their sustainability, so that there is no need to go from elsewhere to get a signal. That is the crucial issue. I repeat that this has nothing to do with analogue and digital landscape. Do we understand? Or are we on purpose doing all the conversation on the pretext that the digital scenery can give as many frequencies as we want? Or do you want to mention that the three mobile phone companies working on the digital spectrum gave - if I'm not mistaken - 180 or 200 million or more for their licenses when they gave 18.5 million euros all the channels to set up DIGEA? Don't you know that? Sensitivity what is it? For the party state and my involvement - my friends - which you assume the new government will do? Isn't that what happened in this country? Aren't we all in this country? It's not right, then. We must recognise - even at the level of findings - what really happens and then see the clauses and find the institutional armour, so that the new digital landscape - which is likely to exist throughout our century or at least several decades - is fixed on other foundations, on other foundations than the up to now. The Greek population, ads, pie and others - and I tell you that I had said this for the first time to the Standing Commission when discussing ERT in February before the debate on the digital spectrum - cannot fit a two-digit number of licences nor those who want to pretend they have news channels. We have to reach a real agreement. I am quite right to say that there will be an effort on Monday at the Conference of Presidents, where I will open the matter and two more constitutionally anticipated principles to bring the parties to their proposals from society, because there is another regime for two. We'll talk about it there, too. So we all have to prove it if we want the independent authorities to function, if they want to act with a broad consensus, and if this House and the parties want to stop being on a voluntary basis - many times without being asked - hostage to the involvement of the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u693	Thank you to the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi. Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u694	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are very grateful to Mr Voutsi for invoking, and indeed he has tried to put on the point of putting on the view that the lack of sustainability of the channels leads them to close down. The channels will open up with new applications, new companies. Each company owes from 500 million euros and these millions of old ones go for a walk. For example, Mr Voutsis will receive 8 million - whoever commissions it - from every licence, make it conditional on the debt to be retained, that there be continuity, because with the new files there are 700 million people, 500 million people, 400 million people and about 8 million people. It will take, for example, Mr Voutsis 8 million times four channels, i.e. 32 million, and each one will save 500 million and 600 million. I mean, we don't hide trying to bring money, but we can save some fraudulent money. This effort is hiding. Then he talks about sustainability. This is where SYRIZA is going - Mr. Lappas told me - a paper on Cyprus that it has four channels. I assure you that Cyprus has ten channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u695	No, theme of content.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u696	Leave these topics and stuff now. We found the "theme"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u697	That's the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u698	Listen, the theme is inspiration...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u699	Is that what we're talking about now? That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u700	But please! "Thematics" and "thematics"! The themes are easier to operate. It's all about their expenses. What are you talking about? What "thematics"? You want to give permission to anyone you want. That's what you want. You want to forgive everyone's old debts, memorize debts and invoke a false text with a number of channels and now put the "theme". What's the theme?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u701	It's about to say theme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u702	So you're going to "STAR" and you're going to tell him to work to show songs? So what are you gonna tell him? Or a church? What does "theme" mean? Do you know what "theme" will say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u703	It's the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u704	All right, all right. Mr. Voutsis said there was no money for hotspots and Greece didn't take. When we're expelled, Mr. Voutsi, from the Schengen area, I want to see what you're going to do. You say that some people praise Greece for its efforts. I know that some people are threatening Greece that they will put it out of Schengen. They're not all crazy. They see the disuse of the Greek Government and they say that. They see the mess that exists in the country. We need to explain and who'll get permission. Mr. Voutsey says they don't all fit. Some people will get permissions, then. Is that right? Who are they gonna get? Who likes SYRIZA? What's that? That's caging. You'll do whatever you want. Give the ERR responsibility. You don't give it to me. The Minister's got it. He's doing what the Minister wants. That's unprecedented. It's the first time I've seen them close channels, the moment they had to get into class. Maybe they'd close it differently. Put rules in place to give five million a year and those who cannot be closed. To shut down alone and not to come a government to shut down channels. That's unthinkable. He wasn't dared either by Mitsotakis, by Simitis, nor by anyone! Who are you to close channels? Put tough terms, let them close the channels by themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u705	That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u706	Is that what you're doing? You're Planning. Meanwhile, there's a picture of Mr. Tsipras online with a Turk, which you're alleged to have promised. If that happens, Mr. Voutsi, I am responsible for you. If that happens, get Turkish license and close the channel "MAKEDONIA", I tell you, because I represent Thessaloniki, despite the fact that I chose the seat of 2nd Athens, it will not dare climb north of Larissa. If in this country closes the "MAKEDONIA" and operates Turkish channel,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u707	Where did you read that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u708	No one answered me. I said it twice, three times in the House, I did not receive a reply. You tell me 'no, Mr Leventis, false information is not allowed to enter Turkey'. Make a commitment here, by decision of the House, that Turkey will not be given a channel. What do you want? In Thrace closing MACEDONIA and watching - I know, for example - 'TV8'? Is that what you want? Is that why you're here? It's clear. Put tough rules, pay, respect the principles of pluralism, host all parties. Put whatever you want. You have the right to put tough rules under the hard rules to answer reality. However, to invoke false tables that Cyprus has only four channels, while it is ten, what can I say? Unless you haven't been to Cyprus and you don't know what's happening to you. I particularly warned you about Turkey and delivered the report to Parliament's minutes. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis, President of the Union of Centres Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm interested in the Turk. If Turkey gets a channel, it will not climb SYRIZA MEP in Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u709	Are you threatening us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u710	Not me, the world. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Did your Minister, who didn't go to the exhibition yesterday, threaten him? Did I threaten your minister so he wouldn't go to the exhibition? He'd eat wood, it's very simple! If you had said all you were doing before September, I would say "Greek people, sit down and eat them." You have voted for them, you have to deal with them." [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the President is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] You deceived the world, and I don't pick that up. And you managed me for being friendly to SYRIZA, to have me completely expelled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u711	We've got it, you've given the exams!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u712	I was friendly and voted to give, but to what do I give a vote? To close channels? To do what you like in hospital compositions, whatever you like? To have a thousand two hundred poster? Is that SYRIZA? Is that why you're here? Is that your moral advantage?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u713	You passed the exams. Worthful, worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u714	All right, move on, move on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u715	Thank you to the President of the Central Association Parliamentary Group. Mr Ballis, then Mr Dannelis, Parliamentary Representative from Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u716	Mr President, if you wish, after the parliamentary representative, will you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u717	After Mr. Ballis speaks, then one Member, Mr. Dimitriadis, then Mr. Karathanasopoulos, if I'm not mistaken, another MEP and you, Mr. Dendia. Mr Ballis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u718	Thank you, Mr President. This Syrian Minister of State, the press officer, becomes a state minister, aspires to become a canalarch and operates authoritarianly by ignoring the responsibilities of the regulators. Isn't that what they're saying? Aren't these heard of the Minister of State? That is what they say at first, the law that we voted on the procedure for granting licences and now, the amendment that aims to unblock the process, to end this hostage that opposition wants to impose by reacting to the attempt to reach the PSE. That's what they say. Who is it? The New Democracy, with particular emphasis on both PASOK and different tones, reiterates these other aspects of counter-population. But they all have their explanation, because it is clear that some do not at last want legality in the licensing and operation regime for the channels. They seek to continue the opacity that serves the regime of overlapping interests, business and policies, a regime that they have created and never really wanted to change. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Remember briefly some things that show both timeless and cross-party indifference over the past twenty-five years. In 1993, seven licences were issued directly for the operation of television channels by New Democracy. Five more licences were granted. Shortly thereafter, 1997 becomes the first competition for a hundred and ten seven permits. The then Minister, Mr Reppas, promises to complete the process soon. In 2002, which had not yet been granted a licence, five years later, the then Minister, Mr Protopas, comes and declared the contest barren. The EPP was set up in 2003, again from the beginning. In 2004, Thodoris Rusopoulos brings the law for the main shareholder. In 2007, Law 3592, which provides for the procedure for the licensing of private television stations, comes and mentions a rental payment for the use of digital most frequent channels. This is a time of procrastination. Let us also see the accusations now made by the Opposition, especially the Civic, against the Minister of State. Evidently the current leadership of the New Democracy or forgets or ignores that the practice it denounces followed mainly by its ministers and that many points of the law brought by the current Minister of State, which was passed, were also in the respective laws of its own ministers. The current Minister is accused of overpowering the license for the number of channels to be licensed, of the money to be given by the canals. Unprecedented, is this, like, a Minister's initiative? To remember what v was saying. Your own law, ladies and gentlemen: Article 6 states that by decision of the Minister the number of licences to be issued shall be determined. As they say this is about analogue television, I go to Article 13, which is now talking about terrestrial digital television. In Article 13, paragraph 13 states that by decision of the Minister the number of licences to be awarded is determined, it provides for the competitive procedure and paragraph 15 speaks of the payment of a financial consideration for the rights of use and the duration of the licence. The Minister gave the licenses. It's a law of the New Democracy. Of course, he questions his usefulness. I have listened very carefully to Mr Adonni Georgiadis saying here that Mr von Wogau cannot apply. Commission Regulation (EC) No 3592/2007. It is justified that Mr Georgiadis should say so, because, as Minister of Health, he had brought to his own bill the very amendment that extended the provisional status of stations without a licence for digital television. This is in Article 18 of Mr Georgiadis' bill. Those who had provisional leave until August 2013 could legally take place for digital broadcasting. Then all the wings said it was the last time this temporary extension was given. From PASOK, Mr. Koukoulopoulos "is the last extension we are voting on", Mr. Koukoulopoulos said since then, since then, Mr. Koukoulopoulos had said "the last time we agree", Ms. Vultesis from the New Democracy "now a solution". Of course, that was what the parties' representatives were saying at that time. The Scientific Committee of Parliament on the same day said that the extension of temporary leave is constantly unconstitutional. The current Minister of State is also accused of ignoring the PSE and goes on his own to give authorisations. What have you forgotten, colleagues of the New Democracy? Did you forget in December 2014, a few days before the January elections, when the then Minister Vultishi voided the exclusive competence of the PSE to grant the licences when she was actually licensed by authorizing a change of organisation to Athens radio stations, ignoring the opposite view of the PSE? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Even if there were cooperative efforts at the time, the competence to grant these licences was not exclusively then of the PSE? Was it of the then Minister, because it was yours? Of course, there are differences between then and today. At that time you had an ally with a voice of consensus, the association of the owners of the channels. Now the association of owners is your forehead in your struggle and in and out of the country to cancel the government initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u719	Colleague, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u720	I shall conclude, Mr President. Your last weapon is to invoke the risk of redundancies. Are you prenouncing dismissals already made? Where have you been for the last four years? In the first TV group 62% have been fired in the last four years, in the second 27%, in the third band 35%, in the fourth band 24% of the workers fired. We didn't hear you. For other things, we are listening to you today. You are propagandaing your own measures, your own answers. But let me see in society what you need to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u721	Mr. Toskas has the floor to present a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u722	Mr President, this is a typical issue. This morning I tabled an amendment on the adaptation of Greek legislation to a European directive, but I had not tabled the legislative improvement of the amendment, which I have to table now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u723	Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u724	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the House, we are legislating to ratify a serious European directive and yet almost all the speakers are referring exclusively to two amendments which have been unnecessarily and which have been tabled in due course today. I think that this unorthodox way of legislating does not provide honour for Parliament and, of course, I do not think it will help the government. Mr President of the House, I call for the house to be settled. I think we should do a lot of things for all of us to get out of a declining climate of decline that characterises the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that reality has already gone beyond us, and we do not understand many important things that are happening around us, as if they were not our concern. We are gradually reaching a 'no return point', because our exit from the European single area will only mean that. They wake up nightmares, which the government had a splendid and challenging way to spend, rather than responsiblely and seriously, making sure to deal with in time, because we have seen them, the messages and efforts of many came along and for many reasons. Extending the refugee problem threatens to blow up the entire European structure in the air. The acceptance of the Commission's report the day before yesterday on behalf of the College of Commissioners has already begun the process of delivering recommendations in our country, which means that the remaining threat has already been activated for the application of Article 26 of the Schengen Code, i.e. reintroducing border controls to persons and goods, which can reach six months to two years and then to the infinitely. It is not the sovereign and most serious thing to read the reasons, priorities, self-interests or political objectives of each individual who sought to start this process and once to complete and implement it. It's our position. Of course, if that happens, it is not only the way out of the exploration of citizens' movements or the difficulty of transporting products or the dramatic reduction in the expected tourist arrivals that we are investing in them. We all realise that such a development will mean very serious things, exceptional consequences for the continuation of our course in the united European case. It will mean our complete isolation and retribution internationally, perhaps the beginning of the overall exit, with a parallel, of course, lethal caging of refugees and migrants in our country. From this step, yesterday, we called the Minister responsible for immediate information. This morning, our party leader, Mr Theodorakis, visited the President of the Republic, made a number of proposals and called, expressing our agony, for direct initiatives to be taken on the part of the government - a matter for the government - because we feel it goes without saying that we need more than ever to form and ensure a sturdy national front, a minimum of national understanding. The issue, ladies and gentlemen, goes far beyond the narrow micro-participatory purposes. Mr President of the House, because you referred to this issue a little earlier than this step, it is another thing to show humanism which of course distinguishes us - and if it does not see us - and another thing that our obligation to ensure and strengthen the sense of security for other European citizens, since our borders are both external borders of the European Union and the most crucial ones. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot resist what is happening these days on the national roads, but also on what has happened in Thessaloniki, Mr Minister, who have annulled the opening of the ARGOTICA report and showed us those moments that are not honoring and rejoicing anyone. Historically it has been shown that the closure of the national roads that are common - perhaps for a number of different reasons - should be carried out at least two decades now, it cancels any real dialogue, and the only one really loses is the primary sector and farmers at all times. At the same time - and I cannot say it - the farmers themselves, the fruit and vegetables producers of Crete, are absolutely desperate to destroy their livelihood with the parallel strike of the seamen and of course the bonding of ships to the ports. We have not yet learned that social automation destroys everyone and does not lead anyone to the exit from the crisis we live in. Deferring the resolution of problems and attaching to past decades practices lead to an endless perpetuation of pathogens. In order for farmers to be able to have tax and tax capacity - and I imagine that Mr Apostleus is aware of it, so he must do much and quickly - the government must create the conditions for producing income on the part of farmers. What is being asked today is not the continuation of any type of protectionism, but the use of the institutional and economic opportunities of the CFP, Mr Apostolos, as well as the opportunities, which are numerous and unique, for the Greek and Mediterranean agri-food standard offered to the Greek producer. It is true that, one and a half years after the entry into force of the common agricultural policy, issues have not been solved, with regard to who is active farmer - what we are saying about the occupation - and how we are going through the background to the regional model of allocation of resources, namely, who is the beneficiary and how direct payments are allocated and the conditions for producing farmers' incomes are created. Even today the great question for the Greek farmer alone, because for the other farmers in Europe this has been solved, is that he and we, the producer, must understand that the producer lives from his income and not from the subsidies, so as we had learned to live in order to depend on this curious relationship of political contribution to this day. The key to the viability of the Greek producer is its creation and participation in large collective schemes, mainly in producer groups. Apart from this, the added value of the product it produces cannot be fruited. And that's all we should have done yesterday and the other day, because we knew what was waiting for us. Today farmers, ladies and gentlemen, understand something they did not understand until yesterday that they should also contribute tax and tax. However, what is choking them today, what brings them to despair, that they are not able to contribute, is a reality. And that is why the key is to create the conditions for the production of wealth that will allow us to have the requirements that we must have, tax and tax, otherwise sustainability we are not talking about. We're not even talking about justice anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's allergy to the independent authorities has become dangerous now and gives the impression of a country operating outside the European legal framework and political culture. The two amendments today, in relation to the attempted manipulation of the broadcasting landscape, which you are trying to reshape, but also to intervene in the functioning of the Competition Committee, show that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Just yesterday the well-known 'GLOBAL COMPETION REVIEW' posted an article entitled 'The Greek Government is going to war with the Competition Committee'. And you are all aware of the consequences of such criticisms in a country that is absolutely in need of investment. The institution of the independent authorities is one of the most advanced products of Western political and legal culture. The increase in the gravity of individual rights has led to the need to create independent and unaffected bodies from the parliament of the executive to protect them. We have five constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities and four other, legally defined. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me just one and a half minutes, Mr President. We are not lacking in relation to the rest of Europe. Our problem is to refuse to show respect for the independence of these institutions. And it's a political time-consuming problem. A translated example is the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which is less independent Authority than the others. Her first head was decapitated by the Samara government and the second by the Tsipra government. In the sense of undermining the independent authorities - by which the government proposes the decision on the number of full-scale television stations taken by Parliament - why not transfer to Parliament and the choice of permanent public staff instead of doing so? This is precisely the same conception, the same logic. Ladies and gentlemen, as a special speaker of the River in the draft law on the arrangements of public service broadcasters for the establishment of ERT in April last year, I pointed out the step forward here - and I quote it self-evidently - that one of the major scandals which we must finally close is the imposition of order on the broadcasting system. I said: Bring now to the legislature regulation which resolves this very great loose end that depreciates the political system as a whole and increases its unreliability towards society. This was on April 7, 2015. Do you really believe that with today's amendment or with the incomplete n.4339/2015, which is an inaccurate - to a large extent - stitch-off of earlier regulations, this major problem is resolved for the proper functioning of the democratic issue and for restoring to the normal confidence of society in politicians? The regulation of the television scene and, more generally, of SMEs is a matter of democracy, not of the market, ladies and gentlemen. Our important constitutional requirement, but also the conquest of European legal and political culture, is to ensure the free movement of ideas and speech, of communication pluralism. Of course, we do not have the luxury of prolonging the arbitrary nature that currently prevails. But by removing all ERR responsibilities you manage to set up a new system of interface with different players this time. We risk being recorded with Hungary and Poland in the group of states with free and manipulated media, that is, the absolute reproach. And the danger is right next to us. It is a one-way, ladies and gentlemen, the EPP election by the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u725	Mr. Danielle, you need to finish this. You're a little late to get to the point, but what can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u726	I shall conclude, Mr President. Gentlemen of the government, with the increase in the number of PSE members you have given the New Democracy the pretext, as if you did not want the PSE to pass on to normality. Mr President of the House, we insist that we should exhaust the possibility of this Conference of Presidents being able to be elected by the PSE. Any other act, wherever it can be concluded with today's, tomorrow's or tomorrow's amendment, will include the sperm of unconstitutionalism. I do not want to believe that you are seeking a definitive solution, but that it is just enough for you to threaten a lasting peculiar extortion by extending arbitrariness. And, of course, the New Democracy of the Reformer, Mr Mitsotakis, can prove in practice - and it can do so tomorrow - that it is more concerned by the demonstration of opposition to the proper functioning of such a crucial institution. And I close with a minor remark, but it always sounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u727	Mr. Dannelly, we're supposed to be closed for a while! Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u728	I shall close, Mr President, with a phrase. The famous 20% is not a burden on the Canadians, but on the advertisers, who certainly put it to consumers. Just to know exactly what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u729	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u730	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u731	Here, you have the floor. How much time do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u732	Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u733	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u734	Because there has been a reference both from Mr Danellis and from the President of the Union of Centres, Mr Leventis, on the incidents in Thessaloniki, I would like to say this: I agree with Mr Danellis. There are problems and a great deal of effort is being made for them. However, we must bear in mind above all that there is a particular problem with regard to rural areas. And I think that all of the political forces need to recognise - and recognize it. This particular feature is recognized by the state itself. Indeed, particularly in the insurance section - you all know that - and as far as OGA expenditure is concerned, over 90% are covered by the State budget by the Greek citizen. However, the European Union itself recognises them, when you know - almost twice as much as the income of Greek farmers is being provided under the common agricultural policy. Indeed, in this case - you all know - it was the SYRIZA Government which said that one of the 2,6 aid-related amounts, namely 2,2, is not counted as a taxable material. It is what we say that for up to EUR 12 000 comes out of the tax obligation. So that's a peculiarity. Secondly, with regard to the issues raised in connection with the incidents, we must clarify one thing from the outset: Greek farmers have nothing to do with the incidents. Greek farmers are people of hard work, of work and certainly do not represent them at all. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The fact that incidents occurred, it was obvious that individuals came to the report, although there was a consultation both with the coordinating committee representing farmers and with the administration. They downed their tractors, gathered to protest, which is happening almost every year. It is, I would say, linked to this mobilisation with 'AGROTICA'. And make one thing clear. AGROTICA is a corresponding report on rural areas in September. In fact, what we have now is the greatest of all times. Not a single square exists in the area of the exhibition that is not used, not a single room in Thessaloniki that is not available. So there's a visitability.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u735	Why did you go?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u736	It is, I would say, an activity in which the whole of the rural world gives a special basis, let alone the government, which is represented every time, like all the governments with their representation, have launched this report. There were, therefore, episodes isolated from people whom we have seen in other regions and other events that occur in the rural area, which are leading in these incidents. That is why we are clear: they have nothing to do with farmers. We are, however, calling on farmers for dialogue. The Prime Minister and the government are calling on them to discuss all the problems that exist and not just one or two of them are going in. In fact, it is not a matter of taxation which concerns them, and the part of insurance to see it, but again - I repeat - is not what creates sustainability problems in rural activity, especially when we want the OGA as an insurance body to keep it up. That and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u737	Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u738	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me a very small prologue. It has happened to me several times in this Chamber: many people unrelated to cultures and identities defend these. For example, people who are not refugees, who have nothing to do with the refugee culture, speak of it in ignorance. I'm a refugee. Non-Macedonians, those who have nothing to do with Macedonia speak of it and on behalf of it. I'm a Macedonian. This is because usually those who talk about these cultures and identities, which are far from them and have nothing to do with them, do it to mediate, do it to adopt a representation that does not exist. That's all I'm going to tell you, and I'm going to continue my position. This has short feet and serves only deflection situations, it is a flirt with a peculiar dedication. In short, it serves those to whom he is supposed to mediate, that is, the gap. So I come to my place. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention - because there is a consensus on the issue of the main draft law - two amendments, which, first of all, seem to be and indeed refer to distinct issues, on the one hand, on the other hand, they have a relationship and, indeed, they are very important to us because they both relate in their way to the issue of productive reconstruction. The economic situation in the country has erected dramatically, with the responsibility of the dominant block of oligarchy, which has established a state of interlocutory, customerity and undermining all concepts of public wealth and space. It is a regime that consistently tries to safeguard the interests of the few and intends to perpetuate their power. The channels on the one hand act as a pillar of the upheaval and condolence of public wealth, in an alliance with the other capital, which is that of the State-owned and oligopolistic capitalism, which is based on circumvention of the market rules itself, namely healthy competition, intends to continue to dominate. Today's Opposition covers these practices politically for many years now as a genuine expressioner of these powers both politically and economically and attempts to block the tender of terrestrial digital TV providers either through the hostage of the PSE or through delays and with various other practices, which are incompatible with a concept of European acquis. Because it is important to tell you, on this point, that it is important and I think that it marks the intention of consensus that this competence in the number of licences is transferred to Parliament, that is, in terms of parliamentarians, to all parties, in a transparent and non-intermediation manner. They are, in short, democratic rules, rules which match the European acquis, serve it and are provided for. However, we have a standing tactic, which concerns both the'red' loans and a series of initiatives which have not been taken by the previous governments, which are the transfer of problems, in order to consolidate the existing correlations, in order to perpetuate this rotten situation. And the extension of the authority of the oligarchy is a straightforward reduction in the destruction of productive and social forces. The present Government has received the exact opposite order. It has a political plan for radical reconstruction and this first goes through the rules of law and equality for all authorities and citizens. Most of all, however, he wants to rescue and support those productive strata that are being set by this very process. We are putting rules that will protect all those who have taken the crisis out of production, which it has put them on the margin, and cannot therefore put them on the oligopoly, with the public. In order to put new forces in the respective branches, we must ensure that these rules exist, that we guarantee equality and fair treatment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. That is exactly what the two amendments we have tabled firstly show in a sense of a wider reconversion plan. I shall finish, because my time is over, with the following determination.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u739	Time is never enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u740	I'll just say one sentence. The policies of dignity, which inspire and guide our actions, come from the beginning of the democratic organization of the modern Greek state. They'll take us away. Time becomes fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u741	Thank you. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor, and then Mr. Koutsoukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u742	Thank you, Mr President. And today we have followed the barren controversy between the Convergence parties and the opposition, which are trying to cover up the agreement that is expressed by the vote of the parties - those parties, the Governments and the Oppositions - in the specific bill we are discussing, namely the draft law incorporating European Solvency II directives and the supervision of financial groups active in the field of private insurance. He will say: “Is this something neutral? Is it random?' It is neither neutral nor accidental, nor at the moment when these directives are incorporated into the Greek legal framework. Why is that? Because we need to see the overall picture. The incorporation of these directives cannot be dispersed and is not dispersed from politics, which has been unfolding in recent years, the overall and fierce anti-grass attack, the attack on the working class and other popular strata, in the name of budgetary discipline, in the name of exit from the capitalist crises and at the end of the armoring of the competitiveness and profitability of the monopolistic groups. This bill is part of the most comprehensive issue concerning the nature and the system of insurance in our country. And it's not an isolated case. There are corresponding developments, changes and overturns in all the countries of the European Union. And that is no accident. Because opposition parties, government parties yesterday, New Democracy and the PASOK, PASOK and the New Democracy, started extinguishing the social character of public security, transforming the system into a trixide, i.e. near the public sector to operate the professional security funds and private insurance and through this process, the pension should be converted into national welfare aid, making both pension needs and the very needs of medical care in general. And today this fountain, this work launched by the New Democracy and PASOK, came to complete it by SYRIZA - ANEL, through the demolition of the social character of insurance and the overthrowing of the system as a whole. That is why the specific directives that are incorporated go hand in hand with the most comprehensive overturning and the debate that has been opened on the insurance system in our country. From this point of view, these directives, and as the JRC rapporteur, Sakis, Bardalis, explained quite clearly in his report, do nothing but create an even more favourable framework to facilitate the action of the financial groups active in the field of private insurance. In other words, to support private insurance, to make it more attractive to the wider popular layers. We are also talking about an activity that we can characterize, and the JRC characterises it as the most parasitic activity of the capitalist system. It is also a parasitic activity since it trades human dignity. Because it is a matter of human dignity for the other in his age to be able to ensure that the needs through dignity pensions are met, that all the people are able to have full access, without prejudice to medical care, to a publicly upgraded medical care. Instead of doing so, you are sending them to the "cuts" of the system, i.e. to these private insurance companies. The government claims - and counter-population, Euro-Romanism, the Euro-monomalism parties - that this directive shields the action of these enterprises, ensures the functioning of these groups, due to the stricter capital requirements and the stricter supervision. Really, who are you doing this for? For the insured people who are going to these companies? For the benefit of their insured persons? So to secure them? Or do you do it to make these business groups more attractive to attract and trap in their gears as many people's families as possible, who in their agony for a decent pension or for a medical treatment fall into their fingernails? In fact, we ask the government, but also the other parties, can anyone guarantee the operation of these operations? Can anyone guarantee that these enterprises will provide the whole, that is, the package, which they promise their insured? Here you cannot guarantee that the state, that the state, the urban state, can guarantee the pension package, the pensions to the insured and that the insurance funds will not go bankrupt. How can you ensure that these private groups do not go bankrupt when the past is bogged by such bankruptcys not only in Greece, but also in huge multinational companies in the United States of America, Canada, mentioned at the beginning of the debate by the Minister, who have been bankrupt, leading to the desperation of millions of people insured in these businesses? And through this process, what are you doing? Accelerate the concentration process. It is no coincidence that significant acquisitions of Greek enterprises by multinational companies such as FIREFAX, which purchased EURROLIFE, have been observed in recent years. In this context, therefore, the overall promotion of the triaxial insurance system is promoted by the specific legislative intervention you are doing. From this point of view, and because it is a nail - meat bound with all the overturns in insurance, the Communist Party of Greece insists and calls on the people, through its struggle, to prevent this draft law on insurance from coming to a debate in this House, because it is unacceptable. The Communist Party of Greece in every way supports the struggles of workers, professionals, self-employed, poor medium-sized farms. It is a challenge today's krone which has been heard today by this step, both by the New Democracy and by the PASOK, which appear to strongly support poor medium-sized farms, when as government parties they have implemented the whole anti-agricultural measures, as a whole, the anti-agricultural policy of the European Union and today hypocritically weep with crocodile tears for the fears and anguish of the poor, medium-sized farms. It is a challenge and a slander of the struggles of poor medium-sized farms, the propaganda of the system's cigarettes, the knifeballs of the Golden Dawn. Like the Communist Party of Greece, it is a challenge for the government itself to slander these struggles. Are you really going to start joining this club of urban parties for racing instigators, slandering the struggles of the poor middle farm? Name who's behind them. Tell them openly instead of slandering all the racing mobilizations, slandering the poor middle-sized farms and her agony not to be thrown away from her fields. May I remind you of the retired people's struggles? Should I remind you of the mobilizations in the MAT and tear gas regime last night? From this point of view, these agreements, which you have not only on the contents, the strategy, but also on the forms of parties that preceded the government, namely the PASOK and the New Democracy, are trying to cover them up through the courgettes. However, which we have been following today, which are far from the needs, the struggles and the problems of the people. Because the cohort fights are about who will have the upper hand in lisverism with the big --fashioned, the government or other parties to participate in this bazaar for who will determine the composition of the so - called independent authorities. For example, for permits both New Democracy and SYRIZA and other parties, they agree that they were intended in the media, the information must be provided by business groups. Private business groups, which, of course, reproduce the ideology of the bourgeoisie, operate on the basis of the interests of the large capital of monopolistic groups, and the dispute is about which one of the big-fashioned groups will have the upper hand, which channels will continue to operate under what composition. That's what you're interested in on this basis. In other words, at the basis of the debate on lisversi is the complexity, economic and political policy, which the government has, as well as the current one, has with the big channels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll finish in two minutes. It is also a challenge that the government's claims that through this process it ensures pluralism, pluralism and objective information. Like today, the ERT, which had been invited to the director of the radio station "STO COKINO", 105,5 to defend the Government's choice of increasing tickets to public transport? Is that the pluralism of state television?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u743	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, make sure that time is respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u744	I'll be done in a minute. It is courageous to say that through this way the SYRIZA Members ensures the right to information to the people, that it ensures the rights of workers in the sector when you have left all the anti-grass measures intact, the whole anti-grasshouse that has been defined in previous years. From this point of view, Mr President, it is clear that we are voting against the whole of this anti-grass bill and our position on these amendments is clear and will also be expressed through the vote that will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u745	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, fifty-five students and students and five educational attendants from the 1st Ptolemaida High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u746	Normally, according to the bill we are discussing, we should highlight various aspects of the nature of private insurance and the public social security system, a big issue that is open and which has mobilised the entire Greek people, because this plan of looting that the government has overturns everything. In any case, however, the debate, ladies and gentlemen, has been burdened with the fact that the government insists on political diversions and tactics in a major issue on the basis of which it attempts to boast things, to unite its parliamentary group, so as to deal with its predicament under popular indignation. In this context, too, a myth is cultivated here, which, having read the no papers of the government, reproduces Government MPs, i.e. intertwined and intertwined. Very good. So we are the ones who are intertwined to support the rulers and the interests, and you are the ones who fight them in the name of the people! Ladies and gentlemen, we need to speak frankly in this Chamber and Mr Voutsis has said some truths. But he said half the truths. It was, of course, overreacting the role of the President, because he has taken the floor too many times. He was the prime minister of the government. He is now the President with our vote and I think he should not abuse the right of the Rules of Procedure. But his intervention has been accepted since he first placed the responsibilities of the Karamanlis government. The word "Karamanlis" by a government official and a SYRIZA official in this Chamber has never been heard in recent years. But it was the Karamanlis government, ladies and gentlemen you are forgetting, and I heard a colleague who is about my age, because a young fellow Member who had taken it up and said it, I justify it, may not have read and not have read the history - the one who canceled the invitation issued by the Sheite Government. And it was the government of Mr. Jandetakis - because there is no one from virginity in Greek political life - who gave temporary permission to these intertwined people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u747	Not Mr. Jandetaki, the Ecumenical.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u748	Good, the Ecumenical. Yes, sir. We're the ones who are identified anyway. The others are virgins! Please read out the names of the ministers who have signed these licences - to be informed. Ladies and gentlemen, let us speak frankly. We have nothing to do with what you're trying to blame us for. Why should we, ladies and gentlemen, lose? The few seconds of projection? Look at the flagship of a large band of the press, the next day of the debate on insurance. Where was Mrs. Gennamas? Where were the PASOK proposals we submitted here? The confrontation is now SYRIZA and Mitsotakis. That's where the system builds its interests. Of course, on this conflict, SYRIZA is trying to establish the National Broadcasting Council, the New Democracy and the party interest, but also because it has the suspicion - as we have - that this will only be used to ratify government decisions, since the government has taken the responsibility to define the licences, does not consent to the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council. It's a major political agreement, then. This initiative must be taken by the government. It cannot circumvent this institutional process by transferring to the Minister of State, Mr Papapa, the responsibility to define the permits. What knowings does Mr Pappas have despite the mediation currently taking place with interested parties? Don't tell me, ladies and gentlemen, that you don't read who passes the doors of the Great Maximus, who Mr. Tsipras has recently embraced. We've got pictures. For example, Mrs Angelopoulos. But there are other publications. Don't you know what you're doing virgins? So, this is how the game is played? If, then, anyone wants to be objective: licences without a limited number of criteria, strictly, but with a public tender, to receive the public too. And don't tell me now about the free market, because I heard the President again earlier - I interrupted him, and I apologise - for saying that he was talking about a big channel that went bankrupt. I told him to tell us what it is. We all know what it is. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what wages this channel gave? Are we gonna put a wallet on the payroll? We're gonna check everything out? Are we going to replace the role of the free economy and the market? This can't be done. The second issue is concise. Restricted democracy misleads other independent authorities too. What is being done with the competition committee is characteristic. I have not appointed any relatives, ladies and gentlemen. You nominate relatives. Don't insult us. You want to generalize, do it everywhere. Third matter. Mr. Apostle was here earlier and tried to respond to a challenge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u749	Time's up, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u750	I'm done. Minister, they weren't individual. The thousands of farmers on the street are not isolated. It is said by a man who has never even been identified with extreme slogans. We have never said 'all the pounds, all the money'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u751	But you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u752	The "Shoveball, give it all up" is yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u753	Nor were we constrained in the streets and squares with various forms of outraged and the extreme right with which you made the antimony front. So, at the moment, this world cannot leave the blocks unless it has a brave political decision by the government to withdraw the measures to discuss on a zero basis. Do not believe that you will tire them and that you are served by this inconvenience in your political plans.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u754	Finish, Mr. Koutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u755	I shall conclude, Mr President. There are a number of ministers, Mr President, who have the role of taking the floor at some point to denounce us as intertwined. One of them is Mr Alexiadis. Last time he told us about the amendments on triangular transactions. So we called on him if he thinks it was wrong for the amendments to bring the correction, to get the money back. Previously you heard him telling us that we suspended the advertising tax in order to favour interests and canalarchs. So I invite him here from Stepma officially to bring us Article 5(12) of the Act. 3845/2010, to see all of you that this tax is borne by the advertiser and does not bear the channels. So stop lying astrayly to make a policy of sliding your political opponents. To speak with the terms of the truth to get in touch. Since, you do not choose to agree on the terms of the truth, there can be no consultation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u756	Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u757	Ladies and gentlemen, there is fatigue in the National Representation after a long debate, but I have to say that this is entirely the responsibility of the Government which is taking advantage of the debate on directives or on many other points of procedure, in order to introduce a sudden introduction of issues of great interest. In fact, they are issues which impair the independence of authorities or the neutrality of public administration. As has been said before, ladies and gentlemen, we are not in a vacancy. We do not discuss without a view of the broader context, of the social framework, of the real framework, of the political framework, when we are analyzing opinions here and choosing a specific issue. First of all, I would like, Mr President of the House, to be allowed to say two things about immigration. Because immigration, ladies and gentlemen, is a national issue. It threatens our national situation as it progresses rather than simply the success or failure of the SYRIZA Government. Ladies and gentlemen, all last year I have raised a number of questions to the Ministers responsible at times about the problems of immigration policy. And the reality is: I started at 4/3, then 18/3, then 20/4 etc. What happened, ladies and gentlemen? First of all, what has happened is, with regard to the absorption of funds, that you have replaced the OSCE, the management agency that existed at the Ministry of Public Order at the time and which had the absorption know-how of the funds. The second thing you have done - and do not take responsibility for it, Mr President of the House, was not yours, it was your responsibility or rather the Minister responsible for it - is that you have created another authority, to another ministry, which, however, you have made seven months to legislate on it. You legislated with n. Other information: (a) 4332/2015 in July. By July, not only did you not absorb a single euro, but you did not even submit action plan to the European Commission about what you want to do, since you had stopped implementing the action plan of our government. What is the European Union's fault? To be informed. We don't know what we're doing. Think seven months, then decide something else, start a new start, submit nothing and wait for the money to come! The reality is that the government has an absolute responsibility for the mismanagement of immigration. I directly ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, how many people have you returned from illegal immigrants to the countries of origin? Where are the return programmes of illegal immigrants located? What have you done for them? In my day, fifty thousand people returned. On your day, a year now, how many people have returned? Let's see what we're talking about. There must be responsibility here. We are also reaching the end of this tragic course of ignorance of reality, to which I ask the then Minister, on 3/12, when they inform me from Europe that Greece is being threatened by a threat to exit the Schengen area. The question is at your disposal. There's no reason for me to put it in the Minutes. Do you know what the Minister in charge tells me, the new minister in charge? 'This issue' - it thus tells me with a veil - 'never been raised. Our country, not only, was not threatened, but on the contrary, it was congratulated. It responds in the best way to the obligations arising from participation in the Schengen area." That is what the Minister responsible told me in December of this year. Now, ladies and gentlemen, a few months later, we are talking about 'fucking' Europeans threatening Greece and discussing the letters exchanged by the Slovenian Ministers with the European Commission, saying that a wall will be built in Skopje to exclude Greece from Europe. You have achieved two huge damage to national interests in one year: The first is that you have made Mr Erdogan a regulator of the issue of immigration in Europe. Any serious European official now goes and meets Mr Erdogan. The Prime Minister of Greece sees him only to address contemptuous comments to him. We ended up in Turkey ignoring the brutal violation of human rights, because we led Europe to need Turks to stop migration flows. The second thing you have achieved is to upgrade the Skopje and make us turn the Skopje to the gates of Europe. This is what you have achieved with your ideas: To give up your return program fully, to violate every right to human rights of immigrants. And I have the opportunity to tell you this because for my day, it was the first civil asylum agency in Greece when we built the Asylum Service. Then I would remind you that the provisions I have brought about the civil asylum service, which has brought up the average asylum requirement from 0.1% to 9%, have not been passed on to me. Do you remember all this? Do you remember when the First Reception Civil Service worked? Do you remember all this? Do you remember when you didn't even vote for these provisions than you denounced us? In order to be informed, ladies and gentlemen, it is a sacred error - and I have a duty to tell you, I have a national duty to tell you - that the sea is not protected. The sea can be guarded and Greece has every chance of keeping its seaside space. The time I have is not enough to explain it to you, because it is a whole business plan that exists. I'm telling you, I'm in your complete mood. Because it's a national matter. Let me tell you, let me explain to you, to devise you and, if you like, to carry out you fully, if you want my party, the maritime border protection plan. As we carried out the plan to protect the land borders of the country, when we protected Evros, when six hundred - seven hundred - seven hundred a day were entered. Stop your ideas, finally! We have suffered maximum national defeats. This thing can't go on. Our homeland is in danger, not your government. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also understand the following: the government, which today just brings a directive to debate, has failed in a number of areas. Please note the amendment that Mr Toskas, Minister for the Greek Police, has brought in - not here now - regarding the supplies of the Greek police. I shall recommend to my party that we vote on this amendment, even if it is a special regime. But if you read the reason for this amendment, do you know what it says? The Single Procurement Programme no longer exists. The country has no Single Procurement Program. After a year of your government, you have made sure that there is no total public corporation, and as a result the cost of multiplying and the ministers are put forward and bring such amendments, under the state of need - I do not want to diagnose some bad intentions behind it, there is probably no such - and above all, the cost for the Greek taxpayer, to whom we have accumulated heavy burdens, to be higher on day-to-day. You are suffering, ladies and gentlemen of the government, from a maximum management deficit, and this is unforgivable at this difficult juncture. Here comes the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, who formulates intelligence for King Herod. Maybe you don't know it, but the jokes about King Herod in the Anglo-Saxon educational area are depending on the jokes about Bobo in our own educational area. For example, one of the well-known is 'Putting Herod in the Mothercare Board'. In other words, "to put King Herod on the board of an orphanage". So it tells us such nice jokes as the dear Minister of Finance, but it does not tell us a basic thing in his position. He's a marxist, in fact, neomarxist and, indeed, an acid neomarxist. Is the state control or is it not an ideological prerequisite for the implementation of its political programme in its own ideological area? Because, if it's not, then he's not a marxist. If it is, then it does not tell the truth when it claims that they do not want control of the independent authorities and the state sector. And the government is trying to characterize New Democracy as a 'neo-liberal', confusing, by the way, two conditions, because we are not neo-liberal, and if we were, we would have no problem telling you that. The neoliberal in English is libertarian. The liberal, what we are, is liberal. So we're liberals. They know the difference to the government very well. But they try to heterose us to surround us in a margin, ignoring and concealing their own neo-marxist approach to the concept of state control and which you see, ladies and gentlemen, is evolving through small things. It is accidental that yesterday, to use a familiar left-wing expression, that for the first time - another left-wing - the Minister of National Defence claims, in his name, the placements and transfers of soldiers, something that no one has done so far? Is it accidental that the Minister of National Defence creates a new year, retrospectively changing the score and making retrospective crises? Is it accidental that today two amendments are coming for two independent authorities? All this is by chance and comes from a party that wants the neutrality of the public, but does it have failures or, on the contrary, do we see two realities coming before us? One is the degradation of the SYRIZA - ANEL government in society, the denial of all hopes and expectations. On the other hand, we see, precisely because of social weakness, the effort to political manipulate the state, so that at the end a political result can be achieved, but I am sure the Greek society will be in the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u758	Mr. Karras has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u759	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to raise the following question: In the morning we placed ourselves on the unconstitutionality of the two amendments in order to support the genuine independence of the independent authorities. It's over. We shall be voting on the amendments. But it has been heard, and there has been a lot of talk about the sustainability of the broadcasting stations to be licensed and by monitoring the President, Mr Voutsis, its viability has previously been placed on the number to be issued. I think, however, that this issue is already in conflict with the Law 4339 that has been passed by the House. It is the last, as you know, about how the channels are licensed. What's he saying? Sustainability cannot be established before the notice of authorisations. Why? He has the law himself, which says: Article 3 sets out the conditions for participation and the legal form of candidates. I'm on it. Article 4 refers to chapter, Article 7 on technical equipment, the obligation to denomination and we arrive at the notice. In that sense, therefore, the argument that the number of licences will depend on viability, which thus transfers viability to a previous stage of the notice, is incorrect. Why am I saying that? The criteria for whether they have the conditions of authorisation will be checked when the notice is published and on the contract notice there is a participation in the tender. So the argument that says that there will be three or four permits, I think that this law is being abolished by itself. So the government must stand here and now: it must proclaim ten, twenty permits, at least the existing pan-Herzegovina and correspondingly the regional dimension. So, by declaring these permits, we will see by participating in the tender if the evidence of sustainability is available. On the contrary, if we stick to the elements of sustainability, to end up hypothetically, without knowing who is qualified to participate before, then we will now be dissatisfied. I therefore propose that this argument should be abandoned, that the government should set up a number of permits at least equivalent to those already in place, so that we can judge the issue of sustainability in the diagnostic process and not unilaterally by the government at that stage that is precedent and can be dissatisfied. That's all I've got to do. I am told by my colleague Mr Fokas, who is a Greek MEP, about what Mr Apostolos said - that it is common to have incidents in 'AGROTICA' - that there has never been any incident in the past. This is the first time that there have been tensions and incidents and this is due to the government's policy on insurance and agriculture. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u760	We thank you for the time economy. Mrs Vayonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u761	I'll just say a word about immigration. I'm sorry that some people consider the idea of saving people's lives. I have taken the floor because I want to make three points: first of all, we have heard some serious speech this morning, and indeed those who want to be held responsible. By the time the Parliament spoke, North Korea talked about lowering trousers, and so on. I would also like to say that the Bureau did not consider it necessary to stop the speakers. I think it is the Bureau's responsibility that it does not allow such characterisations to be heard that dynamite the climate and that they do not let the real political arguments that democracy needs to be heard. I appeal as a relatively new Member to everyone to safeguard the debate and to allow only political arguments to be heard in this Chamber, which we all say is the temple of democracy. I call on all of them to restraint, and I call for the help of the Bureau. Secondly, if we want to have a constructive debate in this Chamber, we must speak the language of the truth. Many of us have nursed in trade unions and know that when we talk about procedural matters, it is because we do not want to talk about the substance of things. Every time the government brings a piece of legislation that does not like the opposition, then the pretext is that it is unconstitutional. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, you have that right. But, to be honest, you're playing it in delays. It makes sense, because you are more interested in the 'phrase' than in the substance of things and, of course, in the well-known'sevens of the 8'. I, perhaps naively, hope at some point that we talk about the substance of things, because that is what I think is the essence of politics. Thirdly, the substance of the channel amendment. Where we are, we must speak the language of truth. The truth is that two months after the law on canals was passed, the government was patiently waiting for the New Democracy to elect a new Chief, so that the PSE could be established, as was the case with the other independent authorities. A colleague in his speech spoke of the need for these principles to be established. We agree. As the honourable Member knows, however, the President of the Parliament called on the Conference of Presidents to move forward, first of all, on the establishment of the PSE and then on the establishment of the other authorities. Where everything showed that they would lead to a consensual solution at the first conference, the second came after the election of the new President of the New Democracy and everything changed. Why is that? Why is it that some are at ease with the current situation and want things to stay the same? And because I am a chemist, but I have a weakness in mathematics, I will tell you that mathematics tell you that when it is cut to half or 1/3 the pie, the advertising television pie in this case, which, according to the 2007 figures, reached EUR 600 million and in recent years has been reduced to EUR 200 million, then two things can happen: Firstly, whether we should see how many channels exist in this broadcasting environment on the basis of the criteria that we voted by a wider majority on television licences to ensure that there is sustainability in their operation rather than based on seas. Moreover, there is the possibility of merger. On sustainability, I would like to remind you that, according to a recent report by the Bank of Greece, the debts of large SMEs to the banks exceed EUR 800 million. The second alternative, to be able to stand up for these channels, is to supplement their revenues somewhat from other sources, sources that refer us to the well-known triangle of the interlocutory "SME - banking system - political system". We believe that the first should be applied. We will not decide what television licences will be, nor will we have the responsibility for the competition. This is the work of the PSE, as is clear from the law that we voted on. What the amendment brings is for the House to decide on the number and not the Minister, the so-called canalarch. What's more democratic? What are you afraid of? I don't understand. If you are really interested in transparency and dignity, let us all decide together and help quickly to set up the PSE, so that we can move forward with the other authorities. Let us not forget, moreover, that in the world network of freedom of the press, of journalists without frontiers, Greece's position has deteriorated. Since the 30th first place in 2008, we fell to ninety-first in 2015 to a total of eighty countries. And a footnote because I see that there is a lot of talk about family rule: I think we should not talk about rope at the house of the hanger. Let us just look at the names of the members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. We don't have to say any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u762	Mr. Syrgis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u763	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a question and conclude with one question. Since everyone in this Chamber agrees that our broadcasting is not going well and we voted in October for a law on these matters, we wonder what a fuss is about. After we agree on the finding out where the problem is? What are the objections, the tensions, the unconstitutionalities strongly raised, although rejected? The answer I believe lies in some sincere phrases of a single speaker in the opposition. 'Replace the law and discuss the PSE'. Is it right that the overthrow of a law passed by Parliament and in force should be made in this unwise way? And further: "You have brought the law to the House to have a majority". Is it a sin to have a majority in Parliament? Or does sin exist when you don't have it? A democracy is not based on the majority choice of solutions? Is it legitimate that the laws which have been adopted by a majority should be hampered in their implementation? This, ladies and gentlemen, is the cause of the discussions, of the North Korean charges of manipulation of the independent authorities, and that in the end a state law must change in this pressing manner. And when the matter comes back to the House again it is considered the majority to establish a sin, because this means that, in fact, some do not want to change the existing distorted landscape, while agreeing that the landscape is indeed distorted. And all this so that the self-evident, that is, the law adopted, can be applied. Who are they afraid of change? I fear that tension and stubbornness lead to a lack of understanding. Efforts have been made and efforts still have to be made. They were subjected in a very documentary way and in detail by the President of the Parliament. However, they failed. One more thing: are traditional parties possible - and I say it with respect, I do not say criticism - to invest in objections? That's not politics, it's an objection. And I'm talking about parties that have a long history. Think about that. Don't think it's too much. Who am I going to do a hint? We will remember, after all, that we have never closed a channel. As for the rest that has been said - because they have not only been said on this issue - I will not be involved in the creation of any confusion, nor in the cultivation of fear or climate of instability. The country needs stability, which the government has to ensure - keep this - to an extremely compact and solid parliamentary majority and to cultivate a consensual climate. The country needs this consensual climate. The rest is comments, it's words, it's anything. I fear that any political force which is not investing in politics, but in confusion or in disastrousness is bad for both the country itself and the country. And I close with a question why the question was raised with torture. And I will put it as a man having and of course maintaining my parliamentary status, a question that I believe to have tormented you, too, whatever position you may have on the issue of refugees. How, ladies and gentlemen, can a boat of women and children be treated to protect ourselves from it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u764	Mr President, can we answer the question? There's an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u765	Mr. Balomemakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u766	If it is not answered by canonization and by submersion of the boat, we will resort to Mr. Dendia's plan, which revealed to us that there is a whole business plan. Where's it hidden? Is it not a nationally responsible position to go to announce it at least as an idea to the relevant ministers? That is the question I put to you in an introductory capacity. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also deal with the issue of the SME amendment, which has been attempting to make up for some today the Vatterlo of the Government and it appears to be the opposite. There would be no need to introduce this amendment by the Minister of State if a genuinely laborious attempt was not made to misuse the provision of Article 2 of the Treaty. 4339. If, in other words, there was not the obvious pursuit not generally and indefinitely to change anything, but in particular not to make the licensing contest. How does this effort work? It is implemented by the unreserved exploitation of the current perpetual regime in the Radio Television Council, an anomaly in the sense of inability to form is understood. The initial attitude of the New Democracy, which had put forward as a pretext not to join the process of completing the PSE in the election of the leader of the party, changed after the election. Some say that the attitude of the New Democracy has changed as a substitute for the new president to support large groups on his face. The crisis of whether or not this is true is up to our judgment and the intelligence of everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are facing a behaviour that is an attempted political sabotage. In order not to appear as a verbal exaggeration or irresponsible to me, I entirely connect it to Mr Vorides's phrase this morning at the beginning of the procedure he said: 'The PSE will never be issued'. I invoke the Minutes if he refuses to do so. In other words, the EPP's protracted weakness is attempting to be used as a lever of pressure, not to impose legality and transparency on the sinful landscape. It is a logic that less raw, of course, in the eyes of a prophecy than that which Mr Venizelos is most accustomed to, he himself was embraced. I would very much like to know the reaction of those of the PPE members who are still in this appalling threat, threatening to change themselves into a siege of effort, so that nothing changes in that area that have been called to defend and serve. Is it a deal? Does he accept the possibility of being considered as accomplices? I would also like to see the reaction of the gentlemen from the Potami and the Democratic Integration in the face of total dismantling and humiliation, I would say, of the independent authority for which so good - but I fear hollow words are heard. The New Democracy, through the mouth of the rapporteur, has probably proposed to the House that it should adopt an increased majority when determining the number of licences and then, as she said, its party will vote for the amendment. We are not a cultural union, however, but the legislative body, whose way of working arrogantly is defined by the Constitution and, as the President-in-Office has reminded us, only the Constitution can define those issues on which an increased majority is required. Opposition colleagues have been deliberately involved with each other for a long time by the case-law between the state and the dual appearance, i.e. legislative and executive function and the PSE. Article 15 of the Constitution, which we all invoke here, makes a clear, clear distinction between direct and general control entrusted to the State and control of the content and respect for the lawfulness actually conferred on the Constitution. It is not at all clear from these wordings that the PSE is being introduced as a legislative body. It is an administrative authority for this, and the decisions, as someone has reminded us today, are controlled by the Council of State. The transitional - and I stress the word 'transitional' - provision which we are called upon to vote on today should really be voted on by the whole House if those who react really wanted to get into order and transparency on broadcasting issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4339 is a piece of legislation, which through a sinful regime of two and a half decades, attempts to lay rules, defines control, puts obstacles to the stride, ensures revenue for the state. It is a piece of legislation which, as has been clearly underlined here - and I wonder how many of the opposition have understood this - has come to succeed where in other times, relevant legislative attempts have failed from a lack of firm political will, I say, or, if we take the version of Mr Deeds, because they have been blocked. They have, however, been blocked by the same ex-institutional centres, which the New Democracy is today zealously defending. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that after so much discussion, I think that the real question of today's procedure arises on the subject of at least the amendment, and I believe that even at the last moment those who are struggling for nothing to change in this vicious regime will suffer the defeat that is appropriate to today's treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u767	Mr. Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u768	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall also refer to the subject of the amendment on the licensing of television frequencies. I start by saying that about the late 1950s or the early 1960s the words: "A well-known publisher and two ladies..." - one editor and the then queen - "...govern Greece". This mention reflects the strength and strong influence of the Media in the political life of the place, the political system and its institutions with a difference today. The publishers of the media publications, when there was no television, came from the field of journalism and were exclusively concerned with the publication of newspapers. They were not, as they are today, entrepreneurs, who mainly carry out other business and, indeed, public-related activities and, of course, use the possession of printed or electronic media, in order to promote their own business interests through the influence exerted on the public. The newspapers then monopolized the information. Since then, a lot of water has flowed into the groove. It has also changed the wider social, economic and political environment. Under the neoliberal rule, economic power is imposed on politics, which tends to become the therapist of the dominant economic classes. And the complexity of economic and political power and the result of this interrelated corruption are a manifestation of this imposition. Television has become dominant in the media sector. The influence it exerts is much greater than the influence they exercised and exerted by the media publications, since it has been installed on a 24-hour basis in the home and the last citizen. Apart from paper media, therefore, and television has come to little major economic interests. This through television, viewing information, culture, entertainment goods and not social goods and for the service of their own interests, is challenging public opinion, reversing reality and acting uncontrollably by violating legality, equality, equilibrium and forbidden to absolute sovereigns. The vote on Mr von Wogau's report will be taken at the next partsession. 4339 seeks precisely this, to establish legality in the television scenery. This law rivals and undermines the system of interoperable and corruption with fingernails and teeth. The amendment - adding, which is currently being discussed - is a transitional arrangement in relation to n. 43392015, in order to proceed with the auction and the licensing of television frequencies. This amendment - addendum is linked to the direction of Officer Response and its allies to deny their own partnership in the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council, in order to continue the perpetuation of today's TV jungle. In addition, they themselves admitted it to be a member of the Officerial Representation, saying it would not be possible to promote the licensing of television frequencies. She's a threat, isn't she? The debate has again shown two views - approaches. The first is to extend the lawlessness, the temporary, permanentity of the television scenery. This approach serves a specific purpose, maintaining the current television chaos, which does not inform but manipulate, which does not emit politically but incontrovertible screams, in order to create impressions that are compatible with the interests of the system. This view is expressed by the Qualified Opposition and its allies. The second is to establish transparent rules regulating the unregulated television scenery. The second approach adopted by the Government aims to restore legality in relation to the operation of television stations, ensure pluralism and pluralism, provide financially sound enterprises in the area so that they do not depend on the bank's borrowers' and fierce banks, the development of healthy competition and the broadcasting of quality programmes. It is therefore an important step towards the institutional reconstruction of the country, which, together with the socially just production reconstruction, has been announced and will take place by the government, to the perpetrators of the system which is fighting us and which is constantly blocking us. And this is because SYRIZA is based on the popular powers, which also have memory and judgment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u769	Your time is up, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u770	With your current attitude, gentlemen of the Officership and your allies, you also strengthened the memory and judgment of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u771	Mrs. Asimakopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes. You can also speak from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u772	Just two minutes? Is that what dentology is like, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u773	That's how it is. Not much of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u774	Of course, especially when it is someone on the critical side! The week began, Mr President, with the KWO TAE and the government's optimism crisis at the moment, despite the fact that there is a reality outside, which is completely different from what we have experienced in the KWO TAE. I would like to put these two minutes in the cradle of this story today's amendment. You know, one year later, reality is irreversible in terms of the disastrous course of this government and its inability to deal with all issues, whether we are talking about the economy or the migration. But this is not only due to your idealism and your inability, but primarily to the fact that there was never any project beyond your populism. But it seems that there is a plan and we are seeing a part of it today. It is the plan of the government of the state of the left, a project of which we have seen incidents: the recruitment of posters, hospital administrations, military interventions, security bodies, interventions in public administration, hospital governors, the regional training directors, the administrations of the HEIs, by legislative acts. [[Noise in the Chamber]] This is your plan, which is shameless, relentless and ruthlessly implemented. And this part that we are seeing today is the plan to indulge independent authorities, which is more difficult than the poster and the public administration. It is more difficult than defending society and its execution. But you are also ruthlessly moving on to the PSE with the amendment today and I wonder where this is going. I would like to say one thing about this. I have spoken in this Chamber with the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, who had warned me that there will be a continuation in the PSE, there will be a legislative initiative. However, it is committed that there will be no amendment to the Rules of Procedure. I hope this commitment will apply, because I do not see where this work is going. With regard to the Competition Committee - part of the plan and this - in truth with this incredible photographic re-institutional provision, we are all speechless and unsettled. He's not Mr. Stathakis here to hide his hypocrisy behind this polite smile. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] But the Greek people have understood. And you may go unresponsively, unresponsively, but you will not go unresponsively, because you will have against us as a Professional Anti-Civilization and above all you will have the Greeks and Greeks who are on the streets from all the social classes and who are today paying the account of your unscrupulous populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u775	Mr. Sanctuary, you have the floor for two minutes. Please respect the time. Members travel at 22.00 p.m. and must have voted until then and there are other problems associated with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u776	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. Indeed, because it concerns Greek women and Greeks and things are simple, I will also speak about Mr Pappas' amendment, because as rapporteur at first I referred to the draft legislation in question. Things are simple and many words are poverty. So let Greeks and Greeks listen and choose, because politics means "I choose". On the one hand, we have political forces supporting the present status of SMEs, the rotten, as the people call it, what businesses are forced to do, is with temporary permits. Even a small shop to open the last Greek needs a license and needs to pay, and for so many years, twenty-five years, they have not paid a penny of sacks and they have paid their businesses. They themselves as individuals, business people or large-scale journalists - not many journalists - have enriched themselves from them and made their money abroad and embracing Greek citizens. There are political forces, then, who want to perpetuate this regime and say that it will be our political grave - listen, listen! - We're trying to change it. On the other hand, there are the healthy political forces of SYRIZA and ANEL who want to put order and legitimacy into this rotten regime of the fourth power. We are talking about institutional fourth power. Television channels are not simply businessmen, to say 'here today, tomorrow otherwise'. It is constitutionally guaranteed, fourthly - it is considered - power because it controls the other three. This is what the government is trying to do and let the Greek people choose with whom it is. We were measured once on these issues and it seemed that the channels had lost their influence because they had and had terrible influence. We were counted in the referendum. And if necessary, we'll be counted again. Let the Greek people not be fooled by their sirens and choose correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u777	Mr. Maniotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u778	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has been caught in a 'devil' triangle, in its own 'devil', in a 'devil triangle' on the first top of the sick, allergic, ideological disrespect for anything that transparently regulates the markets, the television market, the telecommunications market and the energy market. Anything that transparently regulates the markets, according to European regulations, must go back to the ministries, to the offices of the Ministers, to be the premiers who once again share the pie. There is a second peak of the devil's triangle. This second summit is the trick, parliamentary deception. What does that say? This says: "I cannot afford to take up how many licenses the country will give to the channels, I will shoot the ball in Parliament, the three hundred, who obviously have incredible know-how, too many technocratic consultants and will decide on the very technical issue if Greece needs four, ten, fourteen or twenty-four television licenses." This also constitutes an insult to the Greek MPs and the Greek people who elect them. There is also the third peak of the devil's triangle, which is the target. The aim is one: to create a regime where from Maximos everyone will pass, leave the credentials and make the relevant "game". Since Greek citizens are now children, they are not indigenous as you think, the two amendments, Mr Ministers, for the PSE and for the Competition Committee, to take them back. This 'triangle of the devil' that connects both your amendments, get it back. I would also like to say a sentence for Mr Apostleus, who today also revealed a secret talent: the televiser's talent. What did Mr. Apostle tell us? He told us that we are continuing to see the project "Agriculture alone is looking". The twenty thousand farmers are an eyewitness! It's not on the sidewalks, on the streets. They are alone, farmers who are doing something for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u779	Mr. Maniotis, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u780	I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute. To inform Mr Apostlelos - I do not know how many times he has gone to AGROTICA - that AGROTICA had never been interrupted and had never left a terrified Minister without making the opening. Never!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u781	All right, Mr. Maniots, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u782	I'm done. So now, because we are here, we say something very clearly: from 13% to 23% VAT on supplies, zeroing to the return of oil to farmers, 67% tax and insurance contributions, a tax on wine. They destroy everything creative exists in the primary sector. Well, that won't be accepted!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u783	Mr. Kammenos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u784	Madam President, thank you very much. Very soon we have to say, because I see that colleagues, although late, are trying to raise the tone, that this government has a basic objective: to bring legality and regularity to the market. And I start: there was an immunity and an extortion. We all know that. Let's not hide behind our finger. The media wanted to fire - and they fired - 'offenders', co-operating and blackmailing 'offices'. Since last summer, since the honourable Minister of State announced the advent of the bill on the authorisations of new channels, on the PSE and on the auctions, they were blackmailing with redundancies. This government will bear a normality. He'll know every employee he works with. I would like all the parties to ask the workers, the enclaves, the blackmailed workers, whether they support this government or the previous ones, who have brought the working ages and the blackmail and the block - which was a blackmailing block - to everyone and the anarchy. Secondly, there were parties created by the media. Can we hide it, ladies? There were parties, which were created - I repeat - by the media! Currently there are and govern and sign and decide for the Greek people parties created by the media. There were poll companies working with the media that created images. The image stayed in the people, in the mind of the voter. The voter had no alternative but to see the picture and went and voted. And there is no direct responsibility for the voter. It is the responsibility of the media and polling companies, which gave chewed food and supposedly heroes with 13% and 15% popular results before entering the House. And now they don't even find themselves in the mirror! These were the media until we came to the government and bring a health. Finally, they will pay attention to those who are licensed, because anyone who tries to shut the company down in a demoral way, shut down the VDU or change it, have new VDUs, with a new VDUs dismissing or deleting corporate debts and his personal money having them in Switzerland, the Isle of Man or the Cook Islands, to forget it. This government has passed the law that will not allow for a change of VAT and debts, for the Greek people to be loaded. You will forgive me, 'comrades', which I say, but I myself was also against the forgiveness of the Congregation of the Congregation of Musical Concern, and I had also made a press release. I didn't vote for it. I was against. So there will be no more forgiveness, especially those in debt of EUR 2 billion, 1,200,000, 000 broadcasters and 800,000, 000 forms, which are all involved. What are we gonna do? Will we forgive them, colleagues? Let us all think that we need honesty now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u785	The Minister, Mr. Pappas, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u786	First of all, I would like to make a more general political remark and say that we are entering an interesting period, which will also have political controversy, which I think - as we lived the other day in the insurance sector, but also today - dismantle the central argument of those who tried the previous period to claim that political differences are over and that the SYRIZA - ANEL government has brought an agreement, we are all the same and let us move on with it. The Chief of the New Democracy yesterday explained to us what the elbows are in the process he proposes, proposing the immediate cut of the subsidiary, the taxation of farmers' adjustments, the reduction of the wages of civil servants. He also caused us, saying we had not gladly accepted the Yankee reform to save the insurance now. And today, of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u787	Are we going to start a circle again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u788	No, we shouldn't start a circle, Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u789	Then don't say inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u790	I'm not saying any inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u791	How you don't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u792	I'm not saying any inaccuracies. I describe exactly the proposals of your Chief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u793	Say yours and let...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u794	Forget private insurance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u795	I don't know why it's really bothering you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u796	Let him say it. You don't need to be repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u797	Mr Ninths, I would like to agree from now on: that the political differences that exist are precisely reflected in the austerity of conflicts within Parliament. And that's something I'd expect you to welcome. Unfortunately, farces and vulgarities have been heard today. We have heard that Parliament is a plunger. We have heard that this arrangement will become our political grave. We've heard the left state too. Left-wing State to recall is a motto that thrived on the lips of extreme, extreme right organizations in the 1980s. I sincerely hope that this will not be a front of Officerial Response at this time. It's obvious, unfortunately, that some people don't want the contest to be. Mr. Voridis has escaped, and Mr. Venizelos has said that a competition will never take place. There's gonna be a competition. And this majority, this government is absolutely determined.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u798	Never!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u799	You didn't run a competition when you were government. And to be fair, not the Samara government, but the previous one, Mr. Karamanlis, tried to do something. He didn't make it. [[Applause - laughers from the wing of the Democratic PASOK - DIMAR]] Annoy yourselves! You were identified with the government of Samaras, which did not charge the fees for using frequencies, did not impose the advertising tax and would obviously never tender.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u800	Calm down, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u801	No one outside this Chamber is surprised that you voted for cuts and cuts in pensions with the calm of the Buddha, and now you are excavating yourself with the passion of the fanatic. Why? Because we said we were going to have a competition. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And one last thing. When the Rusopoulos Act was discussed, one Member of Parliament expressed this view: Independent authorities, he said, are the product of the political system. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u802	I've said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u803	You have said so, Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u804	And I maintain that point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u805	You keep her. So I think it's a little inconsistent right now to come here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u806	You're making a mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u807	...and criticize the government for exactly the opposite things. I would therefore invite you to vote in favour of this regulation. And if you don't even vote in favour of it, do something to soon have a National Broadcasting Council and move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u808	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u809	Mr. Teddy, that's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u810	Hey, how's it not, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u811	Did he bring you somewhere, your reputation, your honor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u812	He said, 'Important'. If this doesn't affect you, it's okay. It affects us to be inconsistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u813	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u814	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am honoured by the Minister and I thank him for having said so in 2007 as a new Member and my views on the country's institutional framework. However, I have to tell you this: I maintain these views to this day. My understanding is that the independent authorities are a specific format that needs to be reviewed overall by the political system. And I keep saying this from 2004 until today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u815	Why did you fix it then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u816	But that does not mean disrespecting the constitutional order, Minister, which you are showing! It is another thing to come here institutionally and to talk to us about all the independent authorities, the five constitutional authorities, and if you want to do so, and the other regulations laid down by law are on your side, and others are on your side, through your amendments and the Minister, Mr Stathakis, to try not to transfer political weight to the political system, as you are entitled to do, but to check, cycling and finally gain influence in a way that does not honor the government and does not honour the political system!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u817	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u818	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u819	You want the floor, too? Here, Mr Stathakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u820	For a minute, Madam President, because I obviously owe an answer, since I believe that the criticism of the points raised by the New Democracy has been answered. There is no such evidence in the last version as you have it in your hands. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 613a]] [[Let the page in. 614a]] I am referring to the three points on the Disciplinary Board - they have been removed - I am referring to the issues of unconstitutionalism that you have raised - there are no - and I am referring to the political idea of controlling the Competition Committee, which I repeat does not even exist from the facts of our own government. I repeat that the two rapporteurs proposed by the present government have been voted on by all parties. It is therefore absolved of any concept of control or of any attempt to control this committee. The only thing at stake is the political effort, that is, that we set as a principle and, of course, also the placement of a Member of Parliament to which this provision relates. I think that, for my part, it must be clear that the government and all the governments of this basic principle which we are introducing today into the law must follow it - starting with all the independent authorities. Finally, there will be no, but it is a principle which we must all share. To the independent authorities and not to the posted officials, Mr Vorides, and not to dozens of other temporary or other jobs. The independent authorities must protect them from any political influence, as required by the law and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u821	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II), Articles 2 and 8 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directives 2003/71/EC and 2009/138/EC and Regulations (EC) Nos 2 and 8 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009, (EU) No 1060/2009, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u822	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u823	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u824	The draft law of the Ministry of Finance was therefore accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u825	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u826	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u827	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u828	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u829	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u830	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u831	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u832	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u833	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u834	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u835	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u836	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u837	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u838	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u839	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u840	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u841	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u842	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u843	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u844	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u845	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u846	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u847	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u848	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u849	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u850	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u851	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u852	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u853	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u854	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u855	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u856	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u857	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u858	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u859	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u860	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u861	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u862	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u863	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u864	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u865	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u866	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u867	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u868	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u869	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u870	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u871	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u872	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u873	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u874	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u875	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u876	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u877	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u878	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u879	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u880	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u881	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u882	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u883	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u884	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u885	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u886	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u887	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u888	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u889	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u890	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u891	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u892	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u893	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u894	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u895	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u896	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u897	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u898	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u899	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u900	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u901	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u902	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u903	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u904	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u905	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u906	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u907	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u908	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u909	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u910	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u911	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u912	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u913	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u914	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u915	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u916	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u917	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u918	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u919	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u920	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u921	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u922	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u923	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u924	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u925	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u926	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u927	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u928	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u929	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u930	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u931	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u932	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u933	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u934	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u935	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u936	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u937	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u938	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u939	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u940	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u941	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u942	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u943	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u944	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u945	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u946	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u947	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u948	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u949	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u950	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u951	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u952	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u953	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u954	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u955	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u956	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u957	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u958	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u959	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u960	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u961	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u962	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u963	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u964	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u965	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u966	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u967	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u968	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u969	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u970	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u971	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u972	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u973	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u974	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u975	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u976	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u977	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u978	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u979	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u980	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u981	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u982	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u983	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u984	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u985	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u986	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u987	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u988	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u989	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u990	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u991	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u992	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u993	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u994	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u995	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u996	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u997	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u998	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u999	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1000	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1001	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1002	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1003	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1004	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1005	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1006	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1007	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1008	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1009	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1010	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1011	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1012	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1013	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1014	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1015	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1016	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1017	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1018	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1019	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1020	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1021	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1022	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1023	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1024	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1025	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1026	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1027	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1028	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1029	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1030	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1031	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1032	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1033	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1034	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1035	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1036	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1037	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1038	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1039	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1040	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1041	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1042	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1043	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1044	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1045	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1046	Article 74 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1047	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1048	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1049	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1050	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1051	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1052	Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 77 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1053	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1054	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1055	Article 77 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1056	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1057	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1058	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1059	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1060	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1061	Article 79 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1062	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1063	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1064	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1065	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1066	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1067	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1068	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1069	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1070	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1071	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1072	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1073	Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1074	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1075	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1076	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1077	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1078	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1079	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 86 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1080	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1081	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1082	Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 87 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1083	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1084	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1085	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 88 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1086	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1087	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1088	Article 88 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 89 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1089	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1090	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1091	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 90 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1092	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1093	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1094	Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 91 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1095	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1096	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1097	Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 92 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1098	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1099	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1100	Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 93 as such be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1101	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1102	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1103	Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 94 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1104	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1105	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1106	Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 95 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1107	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1108	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1109	Article 95 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 96 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1110	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1111	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1112	Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 97 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1113	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1114	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1115	Article 97 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 98 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1116	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1117	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1118	Article 98 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 99 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1119	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1120	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1121	Article 99 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 100 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1122	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1123	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1124	Article 100 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 101 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1125	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1126	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1127	Article 101 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 102 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1128	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1129	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1130	Article 102 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 103 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1131	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1132	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1133	Article 103 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 104 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1134	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1135	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1136	Article 104 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 105 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1137	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1138	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1139	Article 105 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 106 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1140	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1141	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1142	Article 106 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 107 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1143	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1144	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1145	Article 107 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 108 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1146	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1147	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1148	Article 108 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 109 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1149	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1150	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1151	Article 109 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1152	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1153	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1154	Article 110 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 111 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1155	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1156	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1157	Article 111 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 112 be accepted as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1158	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1159	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1160	Article 112 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 113 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1161	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1162	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1163	Article 113 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 114 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1164	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1165	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1166	Article 114 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 115 be accepted as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1167	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1168	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1169	Article 115 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 116 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1170	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1171	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1172	Article 116 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 117 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1173	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1174	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1175	Article 117 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 118 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1176	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1177	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1178	Article 118 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 119 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1179	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1180	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1181	Article 119 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 120 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1182	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1183	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1184	Article 120 was therefore accepted as being by a majority of the members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities of Will Rule 121 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1185	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1186	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1187	Article 121 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 122 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1188	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1189	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1190	Article 122 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 123 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1191	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1192	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1193	Article 123 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 124 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1194	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1195	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1196	Article 124 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 125 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1197	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1198	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1199	Article 125 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 126 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1200	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1201	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1202	Article 126 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 127 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1203	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1204	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1205	Article 127 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 128 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1206	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1207	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1208	Article 128 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 129 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1209	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1210	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1211	Article 129 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 130 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1212	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1213	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1214	Article 130 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 131 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1215	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1216	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1217	Article 131 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 132 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1218	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1219	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1220	Article 132 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 133 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1221	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1222	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1223	Article 133 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 134 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1224	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1225	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1226	Article 134 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 135 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1227	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1228	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1229	Article 135 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 136 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1230	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1231	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1232	Article 136 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Will Rule 137 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1233	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1234	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1235	Article 137 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 138 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1236	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1237	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1238	Article 138 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 139 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1239	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1240	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1241	Article 139 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 140 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1242	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1243	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1244	Article 140 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 141 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1245	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1246	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1247	Article 141 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 142 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1248	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1249	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1250	Article 142 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 143 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1251	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1252	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1253	Article 143 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 144 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1254	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1255	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1256	Article 144 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 145 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1257	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1258	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1259	Article 145 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 146 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1260	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1261	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1262	Article 146 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 147 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1263	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1264	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1265	Article 147 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 148 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1266	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1267	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1268	Article 148 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 149 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1269	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1270	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1271	Article 149 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 150 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1272	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1273	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1274	Article 150 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 151 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1275	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1276	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1277	Article 151 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 152 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1278	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1279	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1280	Article 152 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 153 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1281	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1282	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1283	Article 153 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 154 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1284	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1285	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1286	Article 154 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 155 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1287	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1288	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1289	Article 155 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 156 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1290	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1291	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1292	Article 156 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 157 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1293	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1294	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1295	Article 157 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 158 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1296	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1297	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1298	Article 158 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 159 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1299	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1300	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1301	Article 159 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 160 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1302	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1303	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1304	Article 160 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 161 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1305	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1306	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1307	Article 161 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 162 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1308	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1309	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1310	Article 162 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 163 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1311	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1312	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1313	Article 163 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 164 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1314	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1315	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1316	Article 164 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 165 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1317	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1318	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1319	Article 165 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 166 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1320	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1321	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1322	Article 166 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 167 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1323	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1324	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1325	Article 167 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 168 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1326	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1327	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1328	Article 168 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 169 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1329	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1330	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1331	Article 169 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 170 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1332	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1333	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1334	Article 170 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 171 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1335	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1336	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1337	Article 171 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 172 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1338	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1339	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1340	Article 172 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 173 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1341	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1342	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1343	Article 173 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 174 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1344	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1345	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1346	Article 174 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 175 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1347	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1348	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1349	Article 175 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 176 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1350	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1351	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1352	Article 176 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 177 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1353	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1354	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1355	Article 177 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 178 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1356	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1357	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1358	Article 178 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 179 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1359	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1360	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1361	Article 179 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 180 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1362	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1363	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1364	Article 180 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 181 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1365	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1366	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1367	Article 181 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 182 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1368	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1369	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1370	Article 182 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 183 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1371	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1372	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1373	Article 183 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 184 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1374	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1375	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1376	Article 184 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 185 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1377	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1378	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1379	Article 185 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 186 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1380	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1381	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1382	Article 186 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 187 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1383	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1384	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1385	Article 187 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 188 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1386	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1387	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1388	Article 188 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 189 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1389	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1390	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1391	Article 189 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 190 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1392	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1393	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1394	Article 190 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 191 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1395	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1396	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1397	Article 191 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 192 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1398	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1399	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1400	Article 192 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 193 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1401	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1402	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1403	Article 193 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 194 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1404	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1405	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1406	Article 194 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 195 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1407	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1408	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1409	Article 195 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 196 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1410	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1411	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1412	Article 196 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 197 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1413	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1414	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1415	Article 197 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 198 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1416	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1417	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1418	Article 198 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 199 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1419	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1420	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1421	Article 199 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 200 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1422	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1423	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1424	Article 200 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 201 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1425	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1426	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1427	Article 201 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 202 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1428	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1429	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1430	Article 202 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 203 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1431	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1432	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1433	Article 203 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 204 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1434	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1435	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1436	Article 204 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 205 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1437	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1438	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1439	Article 205 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 206 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1440	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1441	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1442	Article 206 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 207 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1443	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1444	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1445	Article 207 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 208 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1446	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1447	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1448	Article 208 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 209 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1449	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1450	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1451	Article 209 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 210 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1452	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1453	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1454	Article 210 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 211 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1455	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1456	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1457	Article 211 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 212 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1458	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1459	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1460	Article 212 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 213 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1461	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1462	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1463	Article 213 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 214 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1464	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1465	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1466	Article 214 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 215 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1467	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1468	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1469	Article 215 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 216 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1470	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1471	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1472	Article 216 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 217 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1473	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1474	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1475	Article 217 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 218 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1476	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1477	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1478	Article 218 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 219 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1479	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1480	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1481	Article 219 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 220 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1482	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1483	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1484	Article 220 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 221 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1485	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1486	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1487	Article 221 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 222 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1488	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1489	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1490	Article 222 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 223 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1491	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1492	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1493	Article 223 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 224 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1494	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1495	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1496	Article 224 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 225 be accepted as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1497	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1498	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1499	Article 225 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority. Will Rule 226 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1500	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1501	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1502	Article 226 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 227 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1503	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1504	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1505	Article 227 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 228 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1506	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1507	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1508	Article 228 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 229 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1509	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1510	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1511	Article 229 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 230 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1512	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1513	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1514	Article 230 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 231 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1515	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1516	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1517	Article 231 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 232 be accepted as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1518	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1519	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1520	Article 232 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority. Will Rule 233 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1521	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1522	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1523	Article 233 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 234 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1524	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1525	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1526	Article 234 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 235 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1527	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1528	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1529	Article 235 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 236 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1530	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1531	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1532	Article 236 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 237 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1533	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1534	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1535	Article 237 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 238 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1536	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1537	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1538	Article 238 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 239 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1539	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1540	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1541	Article 239 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 240 be accepted as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1542	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1544	Article 240 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority. Will Rule 241 be accepted as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1545	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1546	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1547	Article 241 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority. Will Rule 242 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1548	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1549	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1550	Article 242 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 243 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1551	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1552	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1553	Article 243 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 244 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1554	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1555	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1556	Article 244 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 245 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1557	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1558	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1559	Article 245 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 246 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1561	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1562	Article 246 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 247 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1563	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1564	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1565	Article 247 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 248 be accepted as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1566	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1567	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1568	Article 248 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority. Will Rule 249 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1569	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1570	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1571	Article 249 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 250 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1572	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1573	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1574	Article 250 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 251 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1575	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1576	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1577	Article 251 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 252 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1578	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1579	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1580	Article 252 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 253 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1581	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1582	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1583	Article 253 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 254 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1584	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1585	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1586	Article 254 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 255 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1587	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1588	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1589	Article 255 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 256 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1590	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1591	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1592	Article 256 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 257 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1593	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1594	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1595	Article 257 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 258 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1596	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1597	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1598	Article 258 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 259 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1599	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1600	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1601	Article 259 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 260 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1602	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1603	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1604	Article 260 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 261 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1605	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1606	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1607	Article 261 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 262 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1608	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1609	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1610	Article 262 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 263 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1611	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1612	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1613	Article 263 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 264 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1614	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1615	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1616	Article 264 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 265 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1617	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1618	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1619	Article 265 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 266 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1620	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1621	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1622	Article 266 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 267 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1623	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1624	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1625	Article 267 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 268 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1626	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1627	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1628	Article 268 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 269 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1629	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1630	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1631	Article 269 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 270 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1632	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1633	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1634	Article 270 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 271 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1635	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1636	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1637	Article 271 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 272 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1638	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1639	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1640	Article 272 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 273 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1641	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1642	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1643	Article 273 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 274 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1644	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1645	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1646	Article 274 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 275 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1647	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1648	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1649	Article 275 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 276 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1650	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1651	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1652	Article 276 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 277 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1653	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1654	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1655	Article 277 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Article 278, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1656	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1657	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1658	Article 278 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 168 and a special number 41 as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1659	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1660	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1661	The amendment with a general number of 168 and a special 41 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House accept the amendment with a general figure of 169 and a special figure of 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1662	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1663	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1664	The amendment with a general number 169 and a special 42, therefore, was accepted as it is by a majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 172 and a special 45 as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1665	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1666	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1667	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1668	The amendment under general number 172 and a special 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for the roll-call vote of New Democracy Members on the amendment with a general number of 164 and a special number of 40, and on the amendment with a general number of 170 and a special 43, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1669	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Makis Voridis. Here you go. Mrs. Nikki Kerameau. Here. Mrs. Anna Asmakopoulou. Here. Mr. Nikitas Kaklamanis. Here you go. Mr. Christos Dimas. Here you go. Mr. Emmanuel Consolas. Here you go. Mr. Apostle Vessiropoulos. Here you go. Mrs. Sofia Vulture. Here. Mrs. Maria Antoniou. Here. Mr. Georgios Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Stergios Giannakis. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Koukodimos. Here you go. Mr. Charalambos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Dimitrios Stamattis. Here you go. Mr. Riding Yakoumatos. Here you go. Mr. Miltiadis Varvitsiotis. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR on the amendment with a general number of 164 and a special 40, and on the amendment with a general number of 170 and a special 43, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1670	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Hara. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos Yiannis. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Jellonis Michalis. Here you go. Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure of signatories to request a roll-call vote of Members of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR. We are therefore adjourning our meeting for ten (10') minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1671	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Ask this House: do you accept the votes provided for in the Rules of Procedure in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1672	The House has agreed. There will therefore be a roll-call vote on the amendment with a general number of 164 and a special number of 40 on the amendment, with a general number of 170 and a special 43 on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in The non-acceptance of the amendments means 'OHS'. The voters say 'PARON'. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on the amendments. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Parliamentarians Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy are on the list. New Democracy is changing MP on the list. We must make a quick trip, because MP Mr. Kefaliannis will travel at 22.00 hours an hour, as will all the Members of Crete, who will be given first. [[Noise in the Chamber]] There are requests from other colleagues, I have heard them! I'll set it up. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1673	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-seven students and students and three trainees from the Gardikos Thesprotia High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1674	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from colleagues, Mr Joyakas, Mr Theodorou Karaoglou, Mr Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, Mr Konstantinos Barriotas, Mr Theocharis Theocharis and Mr Fotinis Generations, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'OF'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1675	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1676	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. They voted 256 MPs. In favour of Amendment No 164 and a special number 40, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 153 Members. Against Amendment No 164 and a special number 40, i.e. 'NO', they voted 101 Members. 'PARON' 2 Members voted. Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 164 and a specialist of 40 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. In favour of Amendment No 170 and a special number 43, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 153 Members. Against Amendment No 170 and a special number 43, i.e. 'NO', they voted 91 Members. "PARON" 12 MPs voted. Consequently, the amendment with a general number of 170 and a special 43 was accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1677	We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Will the office be accepted as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1678	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1679	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1680	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1681	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 relating to the taking-up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II), Articles 2 and 8 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directives 2003/71/EC and 2009/138/EC and Regulations (EC) No 173/2003 and (EC) No 138/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the principle of equal treatment to men and women in matters of social security, including social security and social security, and amending Council Directives 2003/71/EC and 2009/138/EC. Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009, (EU) No 1060/2009, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1095/2010, as regards the powers of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (hereinafter referred to as the EAEC) and the European Securities and Markets Authority, as well as Article 4 of Directive 2011/89/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2011 on the supplementary supervision of financial entities belonging to financial conglomerates and related provisions of private insurance and other provisions’ has been accepted in principle and by the majority. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1682	Madam President, normally, in accordance with Rule 104(4), a 24-hour vote should take place on the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1683	I know, but very often we do that. We've shared all the amendments, worked with the Secretariat to share them, so that we don't have that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1684	In the previous period, we did not do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1685	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1686	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1687	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1688	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1689	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 relating to the taking-up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II), Articles 2 and 8 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directives 2003/71/EC and 2009/138/EC and Regulations (EC) No 173/2003 and (EC) No 138/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the principle of equal treatment to men and women in matters of social security, including social security and social security, and amending Council Directives 2003/71/EC and 2009/138/EC. Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009, (EU) No 1060/2009, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1690	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1691	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-29-S1-commons.u1692	With the consent of the House at 21.45 minutes the sitting for Monday, February 1, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
