ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 31 March 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 705/28-32016 by MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyala to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the authorisation of the rough accommodation of livestock establishments in Grevena Prefecture. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question of the failure to take advantage of the Yunker package by the Member of Parliament, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, under number 700/23-2016. 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the transfer of the Violin Academy's branch of firehouses outside Attica. 4. The Question No 704/28-32016 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the dangers of the national network of Amphisia - Lefkada - Preveza - Igoumenitsa. 5. The Question No 703/28-32016 by MP B' Thessaloniki of Potamio Mr. Catherine Markos to the Minister of Health on the problems of the Papageorgiou Hospital. 6. The 698/23-2016 topical question by MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the amendment to regulate issues of the Greek Horse Horse Horse Horse Horse Operations Organisation (PIEE). 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Larissa of the Centroon Union Mr.Georgios Katsiantonis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the stagnation of the prospects for the development of medical tourism in Greece. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the proper functioning of the Kazantzakis airport. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the government's inertia for the use of the "Yunker package". 3. The question asked by MP Larisa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction about the permanentisation of five-year-old firefighters in the framework of homogenisation, the grant of the entitlements and maternity leave. 4. The question asked by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Health, concerning the subsistence of the General Hospital of Rhodes and the problems of functioning in neural areas. 5. The question by No. 677/18-3-2016 was raised by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarous to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the "delay of the inauguration of the Greek fighters of 1940 in Albania". 6. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction about the lack of strategic planning to deal with the refugee problem, delays in disbursement of European funds, and the failure to implement the law granting Greek citizenship. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 680/21-3-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction regarding the removal of Greek citizenship from ex-Services. 8. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the publication of the award of supplies, services and projects to deal with refugee - immigration. 9. The question asked by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassiliou Kolkalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the review of the amount of the fine imposed by the Labour Inspectorate and the IKA - EBRD for any undeclared worker. 10. The Question No 606/1-32016 by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias Prussias, to the Minister of Health, on the need for a direct staffing of the Xanthi Hospital's radiodiagnostic clinic. 11. The question raised by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis on the application of municipal fees by the Municipality of Patras to professional establishments in the area by decision of the Municipal Council. 12. The Question No 466/1-2-2016 by Mr. Attica of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the "millions shared by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to the bankrupt parties". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 615/3-2016 by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the possible establishment of offices of Turkish Organization in Greece. 14. Observed. The Question No 621/7-2016 by MP Elias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias (Efis) Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Minister of Health on the work of building the new wing of the Hospital of Amalialada. 15. Under number 614/3-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the "creating of tension and the methods of the Turkish consulate in Thrace". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the "delegation of the name of Macedonia to the Skopje". 17. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. 18. The question by number 686/21-3-2016 Question by F Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health about the problems of the Emergency Department of the Rhodes Hospital. 19. The Question by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the reintroduction and restoration of the wage-rate subsidy under European Regulations. 20. The Question No 661/15-32016 by MP Evros of the New Republic, Anastasios Purchas, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the reintroduction and restoration of a wage-saving measure based on European Regulations. 21. The Question No 625/7-2016 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, on the deficiencies in the hospital and in the public health sector in Lesvos. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health about the establishment of an ambulance at the Rafina Health Center. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by Mr Georgios Amyras at 1512/27-11-2015 by MP Mr.Athens, Mr. George Amyras, on the closure of industrial plants that pollute the Assos, following the decision of the Council of State. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A. Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Definition of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus in the areas of Infrastructure and the Environment/Energy". The rapporteurs are Mr George Nzimanis and Mr Athanasios Kavadas. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this Memorandum of Cooperation. B. Only debate and vote on the principle of mutual protection of classified military information and the provisions of the draft law: 'Undertaking of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Korea'. The rapporteurs are Mr. Ioannis Dedes and Mr. Athanasios Kavadas. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this Memorandum of Cooperation. In particular, the parties' positions in the committee were as follows: SYRIZA voted in favour. The New Democracy voted in favour. Golden Dawn voted in favour. The Democratic Reconciliation has voted in favour. The Communist Party of Greece declared reservation. The river voted in favour. The Independent Greeks voted in favour. The Centro Association voted in favour. Now, as you will be aware, some amendments have been tabled which are late. They were tabled yesterday and will be supported here by the Minister, who is present. Because, according to the procedure, only Mrs Canelley would take the floor, I propose that the amendments and the rapporteurs and the special speakers should be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u2	First we talk about the contracts and then about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u3	Yes, I'm just proposing the procedure for knowing it. So to speak about the amendments for five minutes and the rapporteurs and the special speakers, so as to raise the first issue that this convention is with Cyprus. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u4	So, we'll discuss them together, Madam President? I don't understand what you said. Are we going to discuss the two conventions, which will be discussed by the Minister and myself, which I disagree, and then we will be in the amendments and then everyone will speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u5	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u6	Because, as you said, you meant everyone talking from the outset on the basis of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u7	No, you'll talk first. Before I give you the floor, however, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational program "The Workshop of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and a trainer from the 12th Old Faliro Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u8	I'm obviously going to talk about both contracts for a year's economy. We have also placed ourselves in the committee. We have kept some reservations on whether or not we have had some explanations. I'll start with the deal with Korea. Look at you see, the country's interests in the Far East at the level of military co-operation and exchange of information with Korea directly, i.e. if it were for Greece and Korea, it is almost incomprehensible. We are not talking about a trade agreement or anything else. We are talking about an agreement which was made under Mr Avramopoulos' Minister's office, and is being ratified here in normal practice, the transparent parliament, with a delay of many years. And it would be good, Minister, if you could - because there are likely to be others in your ministry - to tell us what or how many other agreements have been signed with the same country and if there are other outstanding ones that will appear later. I mean, what we've signed up to now, and if there's any remaining one. It would also be very good, Madam President, to know how many agreements have already been concluded with various countries at the Ministry of National Defence level and to await their vote. Because we need to make an account of calendars, which we cannot control since they have not come here. You signed them. It is therefore an agreement within the framework of military cooperation. Cooperation was limited only to supplies, as in the discussion by your Deputy Minister. Let us say that we could understand it. We are, however, convinced by both the discussion and the study of the convention, that they - they are not going to stop there. And we disagree, because we see no reason to impose on the country in support of its interests, the development of military cooperation with Korea, unless it was included in Losan. Do I? What can I tell you, days that are hard? But, as you know, Korea is not included in Losan to say that it burns us in the region. We understand! We're not kidding! In the context of NATO and the interests of the United States and the European Union, there is one thing that needs to be created. Let's not raise a head. Let's not say it's not about us. We will enter the steadfast,'maintain our agreements', we will serve our interests as a different person, because we have signed this agreement. It cannot, in other words, be tolerated by NATO and the United States to develop relations with China. It is obvious that the great competitor of the United States at this stage and at the military level, possibly at the space level - I don't know what else - is China. The American interests and the competitive, intra-imperialist and intra-capitalist interests of the European Union, together with the United States to the East, are being shifted from back and tail to Greece - that is what you say with this agreement - to an area and at a time when competition - and military - is exacerbated in this region. We will vote against it. Now we're going to Cyprus. For Cyprus, it's hard for someone to tell you. It's weird. What are you gonna say? Will you say that it is wrong for Greece to cooperate with Cyprus at military level on the issue of environmental impacts, accidents, natural disasters, if tsunami comes, if earthquakes come? No one could tell you no. If we look at her, however, and study her a little deeper, she has special works. What are the special projects? What kind of military operations do these special projects correspond to? What does these special projects have to do with military operations and structures with natural disasters and tsunami, rain index, wind index? What does that have to do with anything? Is it nuclear chemical or other radioactive warehouses? Maybe! We're talking now! What about weapons and ammunition warehouses? Specific projects. Are they strong constructions such as take-off and landing runways for heavy aircraft? Because they could hide behind such works too. The term special projects is quite broad and you do not give us any clarification. I'd ask her and I'd beg that we have her. To close, based on the Greek data, which the Armed Forces serve most of, we will not forget that at a overwhelming rate they serve natonic and Euro-Natural needs. We are not sure whether this agreement eventually leads, Minister, Madam President, to the introduction of corresponding requirements from the window and for Cyprus - that is our main objection - since we are not and there are insufficient explanations and clarifications that are also reliable. Because we've seen what's going on. We've seen NATO in the area. We shall be forced to vote 'at present'. Thank you. I shall return to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are indeed many sanctions of agreements that have not yet come to Parliament. When I took over the Ministry of National Defence there was no law-making office. We set up this office at the Ministry of National Defence and was enriched with the diplomatic office, with three Ambassadors who have received all the contracts that have been signed in the past and have not been passed by the House. It's been processed and they've all been sent to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u11	How many are there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u12	I'm not in a position to tell you exactly how many. However, they have all come to Parliament because there is a problem - as you can see - with the delay in ratifying such conventions signed by the Greek State and not ratified by Parliament. The number I can't remember. It is, however, in the Secretariat of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Our aim is until June there is no contract signed which has not been ratified or ratified because there are too many problems. I would like to remind you that if, for example, we had ratified the convention with Albania, we would not be dealing with the problems we are facing now in relation to the EEZ. It would have ended this matter, and it would have been clear. We therefore aim, in cooperation with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, for all the signed agreements to have been ratified. He's in the committee secretariat. I am not in a position to give you the exact number at this time. Now, as far as the two agreements are concerned, I would like to say the following: Korea is a country, which indeed seems to be far away. But I remind you that Korea at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u13	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u14	I do not think anyone will be in favour of North Korea and have such an issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u15	It's not too far for interests. It's too close!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u16	Korea is a country which has a huge shipbuilding industry. At the moment, what Greece is seeking to do with the reconstruction of the shipyard defence industry is to bring back to the Greek shipyard production that will meet the needs of the Navy, but can also cover commercial needs for our defence shipbuilding industry, the needs of other countries. The Greek warship, that is, must be made in Greece. So, this kind of cooperation, agreements with countries such as Korea, with an exchange of information, we believe that it is necessary to move on to such synergies, so that we can put forward both the Perama zone and our major shipyards such as Scaramaga which currently manages the Navy, and the other shipyards such as Syros, Chalkida and Elefsina. As far as Cyprus is concerned, I should like to tell you that no nuclear or chemical cooperation is concealed. Stay away from us. There are no such designs. For the general projects, which you are saying, I will give you an example. I don't know when this contract was signed, if it was mentioned. However, at the moment, we need to do some work at the airport "Andreas PAPANDREOU". They've broken the STOPs, the ropes that help us use this airport from military aircraft, and there's a need for some projects. On the subject of your environment, I would remind you that we had a huge accident in Cyprus, an accident which cost people lives. In particular, as regards the protection of ammunition, Greece can give expertise to the National Guard. This convention covers military cooperation in such an exchange of information, as well as work. However, I can assure you that none of what you fear is being concealed. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the debate on the amendments. From SYRIZA, does anyone want to be placed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u18	I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u19	In the order of the parties, please. Mr Dendias will then be given the floor from New Democracy. From Golden Dawn, Mr. Kouzilos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, yesterday afternoon at 19: 15, two amendments were tabled late. To speak first about the compensatory benefits. Look how much it is. No matter how good someone has, no matter how much someone wants to help the ministry, there's reason to be urgent, you could have predicted it and come to committee. You brought her yesterday at 19: 15. The second, for fuels, could have been very easy again to come from the committee. So two very serious issues came yesterday afternoon, two amendments which may be in the positive direction, but what can we do? How do we make it? You blamed New Democracy and PASOK and you do the same and worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u22	Madam President, we are in the same Chamber a few hours after last night's fiasco. I don't have the experience that others have. But I have some years of experience here too. Madam President, I never remember a lower-level debate than yesterday. You said in you: “Why are we doing this? How do citizens see us outside in this country?" We were talking, especially about an hour later, Madam President, like the elderly at the muppet show that swears each other. I think it was the worst thing this House has had in recent years and has heard. Speech philosopher, no base, curly hair. Shame on you! Now, as far as the amendments are concerned: Minister, we have had a debate in the Commission on the sanctions for contracts in a very good climate and we have been positive. We are coming here today, copying our recent evils, to sanction conventions to bring in an amendment. This was done very rarely in the past, for something extremely urgent that the whole Chamber understood. For the last two - three months each ratification of a convention has been in force for new amendments, and this, with the pleasure of the Bureau, is an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure to make this debate. Because the sanctions for contracts are carried out by extremely rapid procedures - and rightly so - in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. What we are doing now is original, unregulated in the Rules of Procedure. We are also doing so because it is not possible to speak of sanctions on contracts, because we in the committee have expressed a positive opinion, while at the same time in plenary we have amendments, especially as one of these today, which is a whole draft law. Why don't you take advantage of the good climate in the Standing Committee on Foreign and Defence, bring the draft laws there and accompany them with amendments? Why don't you give us the room, discussing with your Ministry, to see what exactly your amendments want to regulate and get our own opinion, which can't be positive too? We have told you in the Committee on Foreign and Security that we need to reform the legislative framework and many things that will speed up the procedures, we will be positive. Why don't you use this? You don't use it. We shall now proceed to these amendments. For the first, which concerns the supply of fuel, you are due to an explanation in this House. I do not realize that the procedures are time-consuming. It happens to all public supplies. However, since 1995, that is, twenty-one years ago, on the basis of these procedures, the Armed Forces have been making their supplies of fuel - as you write - of EUR 180 million a year - large supplies, that is, - and they are serving the entire state, because they are not only using these fuels, they also help the police, and wherever else they can. Twenty-one years this legislation on amendments has survived. You are now bringing in an acceleration process here, which is not a new acceleration process, but an opaque process. Aren't you afraid that people can win this and be wrongly accused? I think that the legal wording of the amendment does not allow us to vote on it. One with your own philanthropist spirit could also denounce it, because a moment ago your assistant brought us supplies for hot spots and, in general, for refugee - immigration by direct assignment. For NSAs here in Parliament, we have had an open debate for weeks. One could think and think: 'This ministry has seen it all from the back'. I don't, I don't like that. But I tell you that the wording of your amendment is problematic and a lot of people will think about whether or not they should report it. We shall now go to the other compensatory amendment. First of all, the General Accounting Office's report on the fate of criminal expressors points out that we may lose money, that is, the Greek State, and that you must put yourself in place. Are criminal clauses suppressed by the regime and no longer swallowed now? So, to those who have been late in fulfilling the compensatorys, do you forgive them? You know very well, better than I do - I have not nursed in your Ministry - and the entire Greek political system is aware of the problematic situations that have been created with the compensatorys. If you have misconduct on the part of the counterparties and those who are obliged to be okay in their time limits in relation to the compensatory amounts, this advantage must not be lost by the Ministry, because it is losing money. These are the clauses. Secondly, 2014 has been an attempt, for the same problem, to adapt the legislation. In the rapporteur's report you say that despite this attempt in 2014 again there are problems and you list them and there are many. I wonder: Do you have an accelerated process or do you make a choice to change the whole legislation and bring it to us 7: 15' at the night of the prestige and we cannot understand what you're saying? We have an impossibility of entering into the substance of the provisions. You're making a change of legislation here. I really can't, Mr. Minister. I also recommend to this House - I do not advise anyone, nor do I fail to do so, but I think that this is the most sensible attitude - not to vote on this amendment. We do not know what we are voting on, a matter that is serious and which is a wound of decades for the Greek state. You should take advantage of this process to have a debate, a pervasive debate in the Standing Commission and in plenary. You're wrong, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Dendias has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u24	Madam President, I am not going to take advantage of the five-minute period which you have the kindness and the Rules of Procedure will give me. I'll be clear. It is always annoying for Civic Opposition and Opposition, Minister, to have late amendments at the last minute. You know that, too, and I'm sure this particular thing doesn't look after you. But beyond the formal argument, we are in an extremely difficult position. And we are in an extremely difficult position, because these issues concern the Armed Forces of the country, which we always want to strengthen and always maintain - as far as possible - the issues that concern them outside the party and political confrontation. That is why we would like to be able to vote for any provision that comes from the Armed Forces. However, these two amendments cannot be voted on and we cannot. Firstly, with regard to the first amendment on fuels, its own explanatory statement shows the government's lack of seriousness and I regret that. In order to clearly cover both himself and the Armed Forces, the Ministry expressly speaks in the explanatory statement for delay, for a procedure that was not completed in time before the end of the agreement - a framework for procedural reasons which are not relevant to the Ministry. So they obviously relate to the rest of the government. And I wonder: are these things really serious? All right, let's assume for everything else there could be a relaxation. About the Armed Forces and there's a relaxation? I know the Armed Forces, even though I served as Minister for a few weeks. I know very well that the Greek officers are diligent in carrying out their duties. So I'm sure the officers of the Department of National Defence did their job in good time. He who did not do his job is the rest of the government, and that is obvious and confessed to the report. Now the National Representation is coming to do what? To remove the overall framework of a regulatory public tender procedure and to conclude that when others ‘work’, in fact, the provisions in favour of transparency, in the public interest, in favour of honesty, in favour of fairness, must be called into question? Yesterday we had a seven-hour conversation here. And as a political conclusion it comes from the government - I am referring to the government as a whole - this amendment? In fact, I do not see the advice from the GFCM, the Minister's advisory body. Obviously, the tasks, Mr Minister, have not been given an opinion on this matter or, if they have been consulted, do not appear from the two amendments. On the second point, I think Mr. Loverdos was rightly placed. The second concerns the most sinful story of the post-government period: compensatory payments. There was the order of Mr. Avramopoulos with a final date in 2016. You have here a whole piece of legislation in fact. What prevents, Minister, this from normally coming to the Commission to discuss this? Let me know. We're in a good mood. We want to help. I'm telling you quite clearly. We want to help. But do not bring us pretexts that we cannot deal with. We feel, when you bring amendments to the Armed Forces at the last minute, that we are in the state of blackmail and we do not want this. The majority also has that responsibility. And each of us has individual responsibility, not just political responsibility. That's not what the government's dropping. We are placed against a practice and in the interests of the Greek state and, if you like, in the interests of the Armed Forces. I would therefore ask you, as I speak to the Minister, not to insist on that. We're not honored by these things in any way. In any case, however, I am telling you directly that we have no opportunity to vote on either of these two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition by the Chamber of the "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-two Evils of the Presidential Guard. We welcome you, because it is not customary to visit the House. [[Applause from all sides]] Mrs Canelle from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you stayed up last night. I want you to look me in the eye. I want you to look me in the eye and speak to me honestly. Do you really want to bring in the building here of the ones that are built in Korea? I am either from another country or I was in another Parliament last night. Last night, in the context of the scandals you spoke of, they were thrown away and talk about the European Union's existing commitment to what we cannot build in Scaramaga. So, what do you come and tell me now that you're bringing them from Korea? Tell me that you will bring from Korea - I am sorry to say - variant suits and beer and cheap boots that we have stopped making here, let me say "take them, because you have found them cheaper." But tell me that this agreement leads to the activation of the construction of warships in Scaramaga? Where any activity was prevented? I do not want to express to you the names of the companies that were discussed yesterday at another level. This does not involve the position of dentistry, but does not sound here as good intentions, things that do not cover legislative weaknesses. One of them now becomes suspicious. Here we have a report from the General Accounting Office of the State that it is dangerous to lose money, rights and public claims. But when they come late, because they come to the compensatory benefits, they hide things that are monstrous. You have heard me, you have not been to another Parliament. The JRC has heard of it in September 2014 what we were talking about here about the compensatory benefits and the talk it was about cancer, it was fashionable. You know, from then on, two years ago, we are now hearing about carcinogens, pathogens and a number of such other medical or psychiatric things when we want to cover political purposes behind legislation. Compensatory benefits are the essence of these scandals. It is the essence of any kind and form of scandalous affairs, intentions of hidden things. Don't go to the fuel now, where the flag of the government is to stop the smuggling of fuel. Are we going to speed now, because they are unable to meet the needs of shortcomings that are absolutely incomprehensible? And you're bringing in a whole bill on the eve? I was looking, I went out in the middle of the night to find my practices from the past. What you have brought for the compensatory benefits, Madam President, is a lucrative bill, which deserved - believe me, if you think we are not reading, reading, reading, too - a debate that is of the order of many hours. The abolition of criminal clauses with the previous "self-law" gives rise to political, economic and possibly other issues. What's that supposed to mean, self-righteously dismantle? What is the "he" and what is the "fair" in the final analysis? Self-evident abolition of criminal clauses for things that he has not relied upon and failed to achieve the public service, or which has not checked the execution of the project or the provision of compensation. Or haven't you been and have we all been witnesses for 20 years? Do not worry, even if you decide to abolish compensatory benefits, see the study. Where is the country supplied? It is provided by three countries of the European Union and one outside. Three countries are all from where we get them. We don't get all of them anymore. That's the ones that have the interests. And abolish them tomorrow morning, being in these wolves, armed or not, will find you another way. I told you in September and I repeat it now. Other compensatory benefits, will be for peaches, will be for apricots, will be for olives, other things will be found. You're going to do the customs duties on goods, the destination of exports. Do you know what they'll find to achieve their best and greatest profits? Unless we now agree that on the question of war industries there are benefactors, there are "good people" all over the world who make guns for good, build special-choice weapons that only chase so bad! These things can't stand in here. They can't stand. The report by the General Accounting Office of the State gives you the understanding of what pitfalls you will fall with this amendment. We are democratically speaking against the Bureau today, a debate which is typically out-of-region, because the debate we are having here today is off-court discussion on amendments. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, In other words, in this process we are supposedly forced - not very much - to question the intention of the Bureau, nor the intention of the Members who wished to speak - to enter illegally operational and use the Rules of Procedure, so as not to use serious conditions, to abuse the Rules of Procedure, to abuse an amendment to a matter that needs study, welfare, discussion, political positioning and could have been made all these days. In the end, I would tell you that we would not mind putting an inoculated meeting in committee. Do you know how someone feels especially when it comes to the Armed Forces? I mean, look at it in the final analysis. You have another type of rankings in the ministries. All the ministries of all the Armed Forces have classified, classified, a thousand two. It is now coming to write 'long-term' with an irregular procedure for things that concern - among us now - money. Compensation benefits are money, they are methods. Fuel is money. And it's money, which means profits. And it is falsifying procedures for the more appropriate and easier satisfaction of those who go to gain from the compensatory benefits or sell fuel at the expense of our own interests. What do we make it easier? Profit production? Do you want it? No way you want it. Only if you present it - because you really want it - as a contractual obligation, a time pressure and a bad fate in Greece and in Greek reality. We cannot vote on them. We can't! I partially accept your explanation of the projects in Cyprus, which is why I maintain the present, but what is at the airport is at the airport. And when we hear about airports, someone must clarify, what works, where works, how works and why. And I would ask you very much to know and know that we have no number from the Secretariat-General. And the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security has so far worked perfectly and unanimously. We don't have anyone. Every time we ask, they say "there are many, there are many and they will come." Of these, you could explain to me how much it relates to Korea. We shall vote against both amendments with passion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's echo of the political debate here last night, with regard to the citizens, was this: what was the point of yesterday's debate caused by Mr Tsipras? Did we find a minimum of understanding? The field was hot. Interventions in justice, the way in which we strike the conflict, how the grey areas will be made clear and we will shed light on the headlights. And here, on the one hand, the two major parties took advantage of this debate to exacerbate the situation, seeing only at their party audiences, while the country wants a minimum of consensus and understanding. And while you, Minister, dear Mr. Kammene, were touched last night to speak of the need to strike the interlocutory, today you are inconsistent with what you were saying last night, only a few hours later. Why? I'll tell you, Mr. Cammene, why. Don't react. Because you are bypassing a test, time-consuming, but tested, a procedure - and I am referring to the first amendment on n's fuels. 2286 - on the basis of which, under Article 3 of this law, there was a committee involving both judges and representatives of the parties, so that the supply of EUR 180 million a year by the Armed Forces can be assured that it will be done through the best criteria. Now what are you doing here? Bring in a fast track process. It's a fast track your process. And you don't explain to us enough why you leave the yes long-term, but at least to a minimum transparent process, so that the intermittents, warlords, gun dealers at the Ministry do not enter and determine the game from fuel to the last bullet. So I ask you why. And what are the reasons you're saying that the procedure was time-consuming and since you, as a ministry, took care of in time, others did not get involved in time, so we are out of time? So I ask you, it hurts tooth, it cuts head? Who's late? Who have not followed the procedures of the law so that you are now bringing us in a late amendment, telling us that now the fuels supplied by the Armed Forces, of about EUR 180 million a year, will be brought in a different and, in our view, a gray process? There is no way, on the pretext here of the urgency you are bringing us, that we vote on this amendment. We believe that you should withdraw it and explain to us the reasons for the delay in the completion of the procedure for the supply of fuels under the law establishing the supply of goods of significant economic or technological value. That is all in relation to the first amendment. We ask you to withdraw it, as well as the second on compensatory benefits. Yesterday you guys talked about arms dealers, didn't you? So there's gun dealers. Didn't you say yesterday about Mr. Liaconakos? Tell me now: How will you ensure that the well-known 'rats' of public money, on the basis of this amendment, do not find a glorious field of glory? I want your answer to that. Also, say: Are you not concerned with the level of loss of revenue from the anticipation of the abolition of the anticipated criminal clauses concerning irresponsible obligations? It's public money. It says so in the special report. I think Mr. Loverdos mentioned it. The report itself says that public money will be lost. Moreover, the "rats" of the interlocutory that are around the provisions of the Greek state or in its heart will have a party. So we tell you: Remove these amendments - we will vote against them - and bring a bill to the committee. Consultation, transparency, accountability are the main criteria at least one should have in mind, if one really wants to hit the argument and finally bring transparency to this vicious system or the hemisphere, as appropriate, a public procurement system. That's what we have to tell you. I would like to say to you again, Mr Minister, that you do not insist on these amendments. Remove them and bring them from the normal procedure, namely through the committee and the suffering of accountability and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and four educational sessions from the Kantanos High School of Chania and the PAAL of Cantanou Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the party rapporteurs, I note two things: The first is that there is the question of whether amendments concerning the Ministry of Defence should be discussed. And I think the bill which we are debating today and which we are voting on allows for the inclusion of amendments that are directly related to the Ministry of Defence. The second one, which I note, is essentially whether these two amendments have good reason to support the House or not. I'm starting with the first about fuel. First of all, we know that it is necessary - we all accept it - and undeniably the need to supply the army with supplies, such as fuel. Of course, we must distinguish the services of the Armed Forces from any other public sector services on the subject of supplies. The need for the Armed Forces to be prepared certainly requires that this matter be resolved quickly. When I say quickly, I mean that in the past and so far the process, as Mr Loverdos has accepted, has been time-consuming and energy-intensive. And since the positions of colleagues have focused more on the fact of transparency, which I personally believe the current government is euphoric, I have to say this: when the amendment repeals Article 3 of the Act, abolishing the competent committees, which have decided on procurement and instead a tendering procedure, which will determine how new supplies will be made in this regard in the case of fuels, I do not understand where this amendment introduces the dialect, the vulnerability and does not convince my dear colleagues that it is an amendment which should be voted on, since the procedures which will provide for it will be competitive. I come to the second amendment, which concerns compensation contracts. Honestly, I would like to ask: to whom public body has this not happened? Allow me to express a personal experience in serving local government, how many extensions we have given time, because the contractual obligations of those who had to carry out a project were not fulfilled at the prescribed time, and that is why we were giving extensions. The new amendment therefore creates new contracts, without excluding any criminal clauses which, of course, exist, as is the case with the guarantee letters. However, there is an opportunity for these people, these companies, these counterparties, to be able to comply with their contractual obligations. What really serves the Ministry of National Defence, to give out the letters of guarantee and to apply the provision of criminal clauses or to enforce the contractual obligation on the basis of the compensatory benefit? I believe that what is beneficial is that the compensatory benefit should be attributed and that the time should be extended, as always, so that the counterparty is consistent with these obligations. For both amendments, we Greeks are voting 'yes'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u31	Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, I will also agree with my colleagues on why you are bringing two amendments, one of which, on the question of compensation, is extremely important and I will explain why. On 22 December I asked you a question on compensatory benefits within the framework of parliamentary control. There, then, I learned that the compensatory benefits speak of EUR 2.6 billion. At the end of the reply you write: ‘In addition, according to the provisions of L.4284/14, the regulated ATOs should be completed by the end of 2016. The Ministry of Education has recognised that this time margin makes it difficult to continue to exploit its regulations, as the remaining period is probably not sufficient for the adoption and implementation of new EO programmes. For this reason, but also because of other difficulties in implementing, a legislative process is under way in order to make the regulation clear and orderly. In addition, for the benefit of the National Defence...cl.’. You gave this answer to us on 14 January.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u33	Have you ever been in "DENMARK"? There's a bill tabled, Mr. Saridis. Have you read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u34	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u35	And what does it say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u36	For these arrangements, Mr Minister, you say that some legislative arrangements will be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u37	He's at the "DENMARK".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u38	Aren't these about the compensatory benefits? It's about it, Minister. It is too much to be able at this stage, without any information, without any information, without any debate, to vote on this amendment. As far as the fuel amendment is concerned, even though you say that there is nothing wrong with the state budget, the way in which it is currently coming to Parliament is making us ill. For us, you should withdraw the amendments, bring them to the committees, discuss them within a bill, be able to express our opinion in order to support them, if and if they are correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u39	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u40	What would you like?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u41	I would like, as a parliamentary representative, to say something to the Minister. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u42	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u43	Mr Minister, before you are put in place, I would like you to think very seriously about withdrawing the two amendments, discussing them as they should be in the committee and explaining everything that cannot be explained here in this procedure, because we are being given too many questions. Last night, it was indeed said by many colleagues, there was a debate which did not honour the Greek Parliament, a debate where the Government and the Civic Opposition were fighting for who has more publications, more relations with newspapers, etc. That is what we saw, too, was tabled in the Minutes. So while this process began at 19: 00 and you also came by waving last night, at 19: 15, you tabled two late-time amendments, one for the supply of fuel from the Armed Forces and the other for the compensation. Just from the point of view of the amendments you tabled, in a time of delay, at the time when it opened a debate on transparency, on how, from now on, we need to legislate and you have tabled 13 earlier 'interventions', as you mentioned, and at the same time did this, I do not think we can move on in this context at the moment. I would like to say to you, as we see here, in your amendment on compensation contracts, that there is contradictory evidence. For example, the ministerial decision is provided for, while it is not considered necessary to adopt it, criminal clauses on which a loss of revenue will arise and many such other elements will be abolished. Of course, as far as the question of the supply of fuels is concerned, we do not see that transparency is guaranteed, at least from what we read in this process. Look, today we have sanctions for contracts and we have shown our mood. So that we can reach agreement on the issues of the Armed Forces, we in the two sanctions told the committees that we were positive. We therefore ask that you withdraw the two amendments, that you do not now insist on a debate which cannot be held in this context, that they should normally go to committees and that they should be discussed in accordance with the normal procedure and that we should all be put in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u44	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u45	He's got the nerve to talk to PASOK! Do you know why we're getting to the amendment? Because PASOK blocks the process and does not put a representative in the intergroup. You refuse for a year to put a representative in the intergroup and you come here to make criticism. You block the competition, you who do not have a representative to make the competition, and you have the courage to come in here and tell us about the amendment. We are bringing the amendment to the vote because PASOK is blocking the procedure and refuses to put a representative on the table!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u46	Same again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u47	Yes, Mr. Loverdos, that's the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u48	You didn't get enough last night? Same again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u49	Yes, Mr. Loverdos! I've got the soldiers here. And people say: why does the competition not proceed with the intergroup committee? Because PASOK refuses to put a representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u50	Don't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u51	No, let go. You refuse to put a representative here and tell us why we are bringing the amendment. So that we do not directly assign and do at least the competitive procedures provided for. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u52	Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u53	Do you want me to sign a direct assignment? I won't do you a favor. There will be competitive procedures. But we ask you a year from the Ministry of Development to put a representative in order to make the contest and you refuse. To download the planes, because the PASOK doesn't have a representative. You can't do that. You should understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u54	Minister, excuse me, give an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, you are right for one month. The two amendments have been in the Government Secretariat for a month. And we are trying to incorporate them into a bill in order to make the normal procedure and to discuss them. Until now, they were not included in any bill, because there was no corresponding bill that could be incorporated by the Ministry of Finance or by the Ministry of National Defence. In the bill that we have submitted and which concerns supplies, Mr. Representative of the Central Association, there are all the provisions that have been amended - that have to go through a process, namely, from the 'DENMARK' - they have gone through commenting on the parties, they have passed the commentation of the staff, they are at the disposal of the citizens on the Internet - where all the issues that we have had to deal with since the first time have been dealt with, in particular, the issue of supplies, but also the functioning of the Ministry of National Defence. With this bill, which should first end the one-month process that will be on the Internet - it is two weeks now - then come to the committees, pass the committee procedure, and then come to plenary, we would reach Easter. Until it comes out in the Official Journal of the Government there would be no fuel for the Armed Forces. PASOK refuses to put a representative. The committee cannot meet, and so we cannot obtain them in the legal way and should be given a direct delegation. Direct assignment, I don't want to do it. I don't want to take that responsibility and direct delegation and tomorrow I can be blamed for anything. So what am I asking? I request exceptionally with this amendment - which is indeed unconventional to bring it into a ratification, and I do not like it - to take at least o.k from the House to move on at least the issue of fuels with a legitimate, transparent and competitive procedure, where the Court of Auditors will carry out pre-contractual audits, so that I do not directly assign the 180 million fuels. That is the truth of the first amendment. We shall now proceed to the second amendment. The second amendment refers to EOs. The EOs hide all the equipment massages. What has been given as a misassis - Mrs Kanelli is right, in this House we are the oldest, we have fought years with parliamentary scrutiny on the AO issues - they were in the AO. You can't imagine what we've found inside. I have found a compensatory benefit to go to training officers in Korea, a compensatory benefit to give technology to Kazakhstan. What am I supposed to do with these compensatory benefits? So what do we want to do? The orders we've given with the Chiefs of Staff are all these strange bridge-related OH-related bridges, they concern training, mandarins, oranges...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u56	And toll of planes that never happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u57	And toll planes. That's it! All these Egos turn into...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u58	Not to say easily names of the dead...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u59	Who are you talking about? Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u60	You referred to the names of dead fellow journalists.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u61	I referred to Aristotle Bugatsu and Harry Botsari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u62	Aristotle Bugatsu knows who he colluded with and who you even collaborated with at the Ministry today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u63	My ministry? There's no such thing as the Department of National Defence. Regarding the Bougatsu Left, those investigations that took place led to the files, to send them to justice. So I'm telling you, what do we want to do with EOs? All these strange EOs that were for third parties, outside defence issues, to be converted into EOs, which will give us spare parts and follow on support and use the Greek industries. In other words, at the moment, Mr Liakunakos, who entered Maximos on the spot and took all the supplies and is now confiscated, has a compensatory benefit for the F16 case from Raytheon, 56 million to get the PIRELLI plant - if you can hear me, Mr Loverdo - to campaign in Achaea for so-called jobs. Monkey compensatory benefit. And that's ending. I go to the prosecutor's office and say: 'Mr. Liakunakos, the convicted person, must be excluded from his procedures from being able to conclude public contracts'. Do you know what kind of paper the D.A. gives me? That Mr. Liakunakos says, there has been no trial, and there is no prosecution against him. So the malpractice condom can participate in competitions. And it's blocking me at the moment 56 million EO with PIRELLI. If we do not give an extension and if you do not allow me to negotiate this at this time and if we do not exclude the foreign arbitrator, do you know what will happen? The EO will end, they will go into arbitration by RAYTHEON, to find their point of view in the compensatory amounts, Greece will lose 56 million, which may now be made in spare parts and follow-up on support, in order to build our existing systems, because some have not anticipated the compensatory benefits that Greek justice can handle and have the assurance of the Court of Auditors. For all the NH90 Convention, these famous helicopters, of which we received 12, fly one and refuse to receive them, do you know that the Court of Auditors has not done the pre-contractual check required? And be careful, the Court of Auditors comes and what does it say to me? 'Yes, you are right, Minister, the contract must be abolished, because it has not passed a pre-contractual check'. And the Legal Council of State comes in and answers: "As soon as the first Convention has not passed its first pre-contractual review, you cannot control the rest." You realize that here is a swan. If we do not collect the compensatory benefits, to convert them into compensatory benefits for the benefit of the Greek Defence Industry and for the benefit of the Armed Forces, what am I to do with education in Korea? What am I supposed to do with the Sahara desert water supply study? I want spare parts, and I want a service. So that is what I ask you to do, to give a temporary extension of what Abrahamopoulos had given up until the end of 2016 for some more time and to give the opportunity through the committees. What do we tell you inside? That we want to transform the existing EOs with the credit balances into a new EO, which will involve spare parts and tasks, which will, of course, go through the House. What am I asking you? I ask you for this procedure, which you will give me, the old EOs, which are inactive and we are not going to take any francs, turn them into a useful EO, bring them to the Subcommittee on Equipment, approve Parliament and move on. That is the second amendment. You're gonna ask me why I don't bring her in with the bill. Because by May at least 65 million will have expired. To fly 65 million out of the window or to do training in Korea and hydration in the Sahara? We're burning in here for spare parts, and we're going to take off our fryers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u64	However, the Larissa pit has been devastated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u65	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u66	Larissa's plain has more soil desertification than Sahara.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u67	I agree, Mrs. Canelley. So give us the opportunity with these two amendments, on the one hand, not to give direct delegation and to make serious use of those who do not designate representatives in the intergroup committees, blocking the procedure, and, on the other, allow me to open a tender, to take the fuel as envisaged. Because I am not going to sign a direct delegation, and I am saying it clearly. I am not going to sign a direct delegation in any way. So let's get the planes down and take responsibility. It will become a regular tender, it will pass through the Court of Auditors and, of course, we will get fuel. Finally, you're telling me why I'm taking the process from the Ministry of Development. Because we cannot be committed, representative of each party, refuse the Court of Auditors to replace the party representative and finally reach the direct delegation. Do you know how many direct assignments have been made? All direct assignments with that logic are. At the moment, then, this government is not directly outsourced. We ask you for permission to make a competitive procedure in the first and second to change the AOs and bring them to the House, to the Arms Committee, to discuss them. All the others are included in the bill, which is already in the “DENMARK”. I'll beg you to see them. Indeed, there are some things that need to be changed from the draft law. We already have requests from officers who want to stay in the 50th eight years, not included in the bill, we have some other things that should be withdrawn, some provisions for the Navy. Here we are, to have a dialogue. But to do so in those things where we have the time to do so. On these issues, unfortunately, we do not have the time. I wish there was a procedure, at least for the Ministry of National Defence, and we could bring urgent procedure to committee and in a week we could pass the bill! I am prepared to do so, if the parties propose it, especially on national defence issues - because you realise that they cannot wait - to change the Rules of Procedure and to go to a rapid parliamentary procedure, as you say, which we want more than everyone else. We have seven bills in place, and unfortunately we are late, because we have to follow them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u68	But not that the planes will come down because of us. Take that back now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u69	Mrs Canelli, I am telling you clearly that, if the fuel amendment does not go through, I do not sign up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u70	Minister, please, you have doubled your time. And you, Mrs. Canelle, don't be interrupted all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u71	Yes, but we are responsible for a late amendment! Madam President, I am sorry, but this is a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u72	Mrs. Kanelli, the JRC along with the PASOK...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u73	Aren't we gonna fly the planes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u74	Have you put a representative in the previous committee? PASOK, of course, put it now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u75	We've never put a representative and we're never going to put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u76	If you do not, then, how will the competitive process take place?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u77	Take it back now, unless it's your interest to confuse PASOK and KIC, which I don't think you will!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u78	Mrs. Canelle, sit down, please. The debate needs to be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u79	In other words, you want a competition procedure with a cross-party committee, but you do not put a representative on the table. That's great! Let the Greek people know what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u80	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u81	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u82	I ask you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u83	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u84	There's been a specific mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u85	What if you're going to the committee or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u86	I'm asking for the floor, to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u87	You ask why and I ask you: To tell us whether you are involved or not? Is that the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u88	I ask for the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u90	Madam President, I would like to speak on the substance of the amendments, on a debate in plenary because the Ministry is smuggling its legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u91	Now, what's it to us, Mr. Loverdos? You did it in your first talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u92	Only ignorant legal and parliamentary can hear what you say with sympathy. Only ignorant! We tell you about a difficulty you have, as you say, fifteen months, sometimes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u93	You're blocking it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u94	...sometime because of one party, sometimes because of the other, sometimes because it's morning, sometimes because it's night, you say 15 months - you say it - that you have problems with fuel...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u95	We have a problem with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u96	...and you come after 15 months at 19:30, the night of the day when the House discusses transparency, bring us whole drafts of law. If you know the issues, why haven't you told us a long time ago? In the Standing Committee you have been here so many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u97	Twenty-seven phones we made, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u98	We have shown you that our country puts it above all, above and above you, when you don't once say the word 'PASOK', you will get any pills. There's something wrong with you. Now, Madam President, it tells us, obviously a legal emulsion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u99	But will you now comment on the Minister's speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u100	He informed him...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u101	Is that why I gave you the floor? Please, Mr. Loverdo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u102	You told him that the absence of a party, if any, because I inform you, Minister of National Defence, that those of my colleagues who ask from my party or from another, what is it that says about the Intergroup, no one knows. I don't know. The other parliamentary representative does not know, the President does not know, the Secretary of our parliamentary group does not know, the Ministry of Development does not know, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u103	Venizelo, ask him to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u104	And you know that the absence of a party representative poses problems in the legal formation of the intergroup committee, which cannot take a decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u105	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u106	What you are saying is first and foremost and, in any case, even if you were right - which you do not have - you should have given us so many opportunities in the very good climate that we have in the Committee on Foreign and Security, you should have told us. You come here now and you speak with words in which you never smell, - courage and so forth - to lift up our finger and tell us that you will not lift the planes because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u107	All right, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u108	You should change your Roots. When others treat you worldly, treat you like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u109	All right, we're coming back to the process. To take the floor the Golden Dawn if it wants to be placed for the Korean Convention, before entering the vote, because it had voted'residents'. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u110	I want to talk about the planes Mr. Kammenos said. Aren't the helicopters coming up, Mr. Cammene? You said you called the rest of the parties, twenty-seven phones you told Mr. Loverdos, but on the Golden Dawn you didn't make any briefings. You didn't even get a phone call for the plenary to be briefed. Your practice is unacceptable. Your policies with regard to national defence and security for Greece are empirically dangerous. Also, with regard to fuel, which may be a serious matter for the Armed Forces, you bring it too late and what concerns us is that you have guaranteed that there will be a competition. And when the President of the Independent Greeks guarantees, we really have huge reservations, having seen your political course, having seen that SYRIZA acquired his own Venizelos. Even semantic. I remember the former Vice-President of PASOK, on a visit by the then Prime Minister Samaras abroad, who was on his bloc, who had come out on his cards, had come out on his phones in a few minutes as Prime Minister. So you have chosen to sit even in the chair of Prime Minister Tsipras today. You've got a big problem. We won't follow you. We are voting against both amendments. The procedure is unacceptable. You did exactly the same and worse than what you complained about. You're finally left with a little extreme right, just like you are. So you are, left and right, the two sides of this coin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Pappa, please, for the Korean Convention, what are you voting on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u112	Opposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u113	I asked you why you might have changed your mind. You said 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u114	‘Company’ for Korea. We are talking about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u115	Madam President, may I have the floor to make a statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u116	Minister, you have the floor for a minute, because we have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u117	I would like to state clearly that following the insult by the neo-nazi formula against the leadership of the Armed Forces in the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, I do not respond to the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u118	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u119	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u121	For a minute, Madam President. I'm not going to deal with Mr. Kammenos. I don't deserve to deal with Mr. Kammenos. But I will deal with the President-in-Office, Madam President, with you. You're not doing your job well. Mr. Kammenos has to be deleted from the Minutes and you have to invoke him in order. Finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u122	You can sue me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u123	I'm not going to do this to you, I'm going to sue you, Mr. Cammene. Your message has been made by others and your lovituras... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I served twenty-six months, Mr. Cammene, and my family has given blood for the country. Where did you serve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u124	You down the flag and put the champagne cross on the Acropolis. That's what you did! Sit down, man!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u125	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Come on! We have to finish. Mr. Pappa, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u126	Please, too! Mr. Kammenos, the Minister, who is unspeakable, has such behaviour and is embarrassed, says to me 'Hit down, man'! What is this, Madam President? Does this man honor the Greek Parliament? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u128	Madam President, I have asked for the floor because I want our vote to be completely justified. I do not know whether PASOK has refused, Mr Loverdos, as I do not know whether the Communist Party has refused - it provides a way out. The way out is within 20 days to invite a member of the Court of Auditors to replace the member of the party who refuses. Therefore, this for us, the New Democracy, cannot be an adequate explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u129	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u130	They didn't. The Court of Auditors did not send a representative for three meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u131	But I'm telling you, Minister, that the ministry had a way out and didn't choose it. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u132	And three times the Court of Auditors did not send a representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u133	Didn't the Court of Auditors send it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u134	I'm sorry, twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u135	Madam President, Minister, you know that - and I apologise to you - it is clear that you are not personally handling it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u136	The PASOK must say 'I will not send a representative finally', so that the Court of Auditors can send a replacement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u137	I've been a short time, Minister of Development...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u138	And we all signed up for fuel. And Mrs. Generation has signed, and you've all signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u139	What's the matter here? The law gives an alternative. I don't know what happened and what didn't happen. I can't know that. I don't know what PASOK did, I don't know what the Court of Auditors did. It's giving an alternative. I cannot accept that Greek legislation makes the Armed Forces of the country hostage to anyone who refuses to implement the law. In this sense, therefore, and given that I do not consider that the Ministry of National Defence adequately explains what is going on here, I return to the proposal, this amendment should be discussed in a different context and I think it should not be voted on at this sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u140	I think the explanations have been given. The requests have been heard. I, for my part, can do what I can to preach the conversation over. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of, and amendments to, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus in the areas of Infrastructure and the Environment/Energy". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u141	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u142	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus in the areas of Infrastructure and Environment/Energy" was accepted in the first place by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u143	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u145	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. We are entering the vote on Amendment No 296 and on specific number 21 on the supply of fuels from the Armed Forces. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 296 and a special number 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u146	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u147	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u148	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u149	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u150	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u151	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u152	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 296 and a special number 21 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are now entering the vote on Amendment No 299 and on a special number 22, which regulates issues of the approval, conclusion and amendment of compensation contracts. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 299 and a special number of 22 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u153	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u154	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u155	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u156	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u157	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u158	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u159	The amendment under a general number of 299 and a special 22 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u160	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u161	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The bill of the Ministry of National Defence was therefore accepted in principle and in articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u162	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u163	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u164	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u165	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u166	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u167	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Creating the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus in the areas of Infrastructure and Environment/Energy and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u169	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the second bill. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence is adjourned: "Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Mutual Protection of Classified Military Intelligence". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u170	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u171	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Application of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Mutual Protection of Classified Military Intelligence’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all of it and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u173	The House has given the mandate requested. Before entering the next theme of today's sitting, we will have a very short three-minute break in order for the participants to take their seats.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION REQUESTS FOR APPROVAL OF BULGARIA Discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, George Stathakis and Paul Polakis. The Committee’s reports were announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 22 March 2016. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases but is only investigated if the act on which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity or if the prosecution, prosecution or indictment conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Public Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote and roll-call vote. The vote, in which each colleague will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group, to which he belongs, will be registered in the respective minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Georgios Stathakis and Mr Pavlos Polakis. On the first request, is there a colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, which I read to you before, namely either the Member to whom the request relates, or a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u175	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u176	Not everyone will talk in general. Article 108 states who have a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u177	I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u178	I know. I'm not answering you. I'm clearing. Mr. Polakis, Mr. Stathakis, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u179	Yes, Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u180	Time is for all five minutes. Here, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to raise my point of view on the issue of waiving immunity, as I have put it in committee, which has consulted it not to be lifted. But, in order to solve some misunderstandings that are circulating, I will say a brief record of what has happened and why the order for the waiver of immunity has been sent. On September 11, 2011, and the period that I was Mayor of Sfakion, completely unhealthy, then Minister of Shipping, Mr Chrysochoidis, on September 6 and 10 in the morning, makes a decision to bind all ships sailing in the Greek area that had a certificate of airworthiness from the Russian classification. I would like to remind you that the Greek classification societies had been abolished in 2010 and too many ferry companies had to take certificates from other classification societies, such as English, Italian, Russian. That morning, therefore, following a recommendation from the port services that the certificates of the Russian classification society are unreliable, Mr Chrysochoidis took a mandate and tied ninety ships throughout Greece, small or large, which had a certificate of airworthiness from the Russian classification society. They tied from Tilos and Symi to Agios Stratis, to Othones, Mathraki, Ereikossa, to all the Ionians and tied up a series of daily or small coastline vessels, as were both ships of the anonymous maritime company of southwest Crete, ANENDYK, which make the route Agia Romoli - Sfakia. Agia Roumeli is the exit of the canyon of Samaria to the sea. This resulted, because this command was given at 10 a.m. in the morning, to be locked in the canyon of Samaria over seven hundred people who had entered the canyon since 6.00 o'clock in the morning and there was no way to leave Agia Romouli and to go back to a place where they had a road connection - because there was no way to go - to go back to their hotels, because they were from all over Crete. In fact, around five hundred people did not enter the canyon at that time, because the command, which said there was no way to leave. We made a consultation with the Secretary-General of the Decentralised Administration, Mr Karunjo, then, to allow for at least one route from one of these two ships, the "SAMARIA" and the "DASKALGIANNI", as their names are, so that they can disembowel the world. First there was an agreement on this. Unfortunately, however, a commander of the port was found in Chania, who - the king's king - decided that no such route can be made. The same boat he banned, this morning he made the ride back from Sfakion country to Agia Roumeli and went to visitors there. They finally decided that it would not be the route, and the world would stay there. Meanwhile, there was a great baboon on the Internet, that visitors were locked in the Samaria Gorge, what are these things, complaining about the tourist offices, there were threats to lawsuits because some people fleeing the same night, etc. For the next few days, the problem was solved. Another ship was found to come, to make the routes. But that day it didn't happen. We've already reached 2.00 o'clock at noon. At that stage we made the decision from the municipality that the problem had to be solved, and this world had to be able to return to its base. With the city’s hospital inflatable then along with the president of the company we went to Agia Roumeli, we found the ship to which they had given orders to go to Souya and to leave there. We stopped it, came the port, arrested us and procedures were carried out by the afternoon. He had stopped in Suya the boat. There was a whole effort again with Mr Chrysochide, Mr Otto, the Members of the county. Unfortunately, no one made a decision. One could not make a decision to make a route, to disguise six hundred people. So by taking responsibility for that situation, together with residents from Agia Roumeli, who meanwhile had come there, we went up to the ship and told the captain that we should take the world. So we left Suya, we went to Agia Roumeli, we put the world in, four hundred and five hundred people, and so on, we unloaded them in the country of Sfakia, where they returned to their base. Some viewed this as a great insult to the loyal and sacred of the tribe. The next day they arrested the captain, they called us and the process started. Well, I think what we did was just and necessary. I believe that local government as a local governor of a society must solve problems. We solved a problem that day and were not completely humiliated by this unspeakable decision, which created other incidents. This decision created a problem of supply for Gadus in the next few days, because it could not go to the power generators on the island of Gadus. Of course, after a month, the airworthiness check on all these ships showed that they were fine and could be washed properly. That's the reality. That's why the Attorney's Office is asking for my immunity to be waived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too. Mr. Stathakis, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u183	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u184	Who wants the speech from the parties? Does anybody want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u185	I, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u186	Come on, Mr. Lambroulis, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u187	No, Madam President, just a few seconds. I'm not gonna take advantage of all the time. In the committee we had reservations about Mr Stathakis. In view of the evidence, bearing in mind the expropriatory rulings of the courts, we declare that we will vote against the lifting of immunity by Mr Stathakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the request of the Prosecutor, calling for the waiver of the immunity of colleagues Georgios Stathakis and Paul Polakis. We shall now proceed to the roll-call vote. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person voting in favour of the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference next to the Member's name and to the column ‘NEI’. In other words, it says "HAI" to the prosecutor's request to waive immunity. The person who votes against the lifting of immunity takes note of his preference by the name of the Member and in the column 'NOV'. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. The vote will give each of its colleagues its name, its constituency and the parliamentary group to which it belongs. He will sign it, because the vote is roll-call. Then, after his name is made out by colleagues on the list, he will deliver the vote to colleagues Panagiota Dritsel from SYRIZA and Apostolo Vesyropoulos from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the protocol of vote in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u189	The House unanimously agreed. I would like to inform you that letters and fax (fax) Members have been sent to the Bureau under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure to which they give their votes. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy are on the list. The members of the committee, who must leave as a matter of urgency, will be voted before the vote. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u190	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Mr Nektarios Santorinios came to the vote shortly after the President declared its end to the vote. That is why his vote shall not be taken into account. The letter sent to the Bureau by Mr Dimitrios Marda, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, is recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Spyridon Lappa, Life of Lebanon, Panagiotis Skourletis and Efi Georgopoulos, who inform us that they will not be present in today's roll-call vote and that if they were present they would vote 'no'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting but are not counted on the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u192	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Secretary General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece Dimitrios Koutsoubas and the Members of his party tabled a proposal for a law: 'Direct measures to protect the unemployed'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count and sort out the ballots for the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, forty-six students and three educational sessions from the General School of Lassithi (A' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let me note that, at the moment, the House has essentially completed its work and we are simply counting. [[After REMUNERATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to you the result of a roll-call vote on the request for immunity of fellow Members. A total of 187 Members voted. On the case of Mr Georgios Stathakis: In favour of waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 28. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OECD', 151. They voted for 8 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 103a and 103b]] On the case of Mr Paul Paul Polakis: In favour of waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 34. They voted in favour of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OECD'. They voted for 8 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 28 January 2016 (in the evening), Monday 1 February 2016 and Friday 5 February 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u194	The minutes of Thursday 28 January 2016 (in the afternoon), Monday 1 February 2016 and Friday 5 February 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-30-S1-commons.u195	With the consent of Parliament at 13.56's meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, March 31, 2016 at 9.30' with the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate; b) legislative work, only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adapting Greek legislation to the provisions: (a) Directives 2014/107/EU and (EU) 2015/2060, (b) Directives 2014/86/EU and 2015/121/EU, (c) Directive 2013/61/EU and other provisions’ in accordance with the agenda distributed.
