ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 24-11-2016 authorisation, the minutes of the LV's meeting, Thursday 24 November 2016, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive 2014/94/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the development of alternative fuel infrastructures, simplification of the authorisation procedure and other provisions of fuel and energy service stations and other provisions’]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A single debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: "The Single System of Mobility in Public Administration and Local Government, the obligations of the persons appointed in the positions of Articles 6 and 8 of the Law. Regulation (EC) No 3369/2016, inconsistent and prevention of conflicts of interest and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents, at its meeting on 23 November 2016, decided to discuss the draft law in two meetings. It is therefore proposed that the debate should become uniform in principle, on articles and amendments, in good time. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Theleritis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u3	Would you like, Minister, to place yourself on the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u4	No, quotes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u5	Madam Minister, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. It appeared in the debate that took place in the committee in the past few days, that we all agree that the public sector is the great patient. We all know that for decades a bureaucratic, counterproductive and at the same time, harmful conception has been created for the public sector in relation to the service of the public interest. The government's malfunctions were growing from time to time through fragmentary interventions, anxiocracy, micro-political use and ownership perception. This has gradually led to a peculiar imbalance in the provision of his services. This is the public sector that we have received, a public sector which is hostile to the citizens, but also to the workers themselves. The government made the political decision to put an end to this anarchist, anarchistic and bureaucratic landscape. We are doing this because our strategic goal is the country's economic, productive and social reconstruction. Without a reform of public administration, there cannot be and there will be no reconstruction in the country. If we do not come out of individual crises that have been created, we will obviously not get out of the crisis. These individual crises, of course, were not legally specified, but were defined by specific policies. The government, however, so far, has taken a number of legislative initiatives. We have designed a roadmap towards creating the efficient public sector. In summary, I shall refer to L.4369/2016, which, inter alia, includes the National Staff Register, a new system of evaluation of officials and selection of heads. Today we add a link to the reform of the public sector, the draft law on the single mobility system to public administration. The basic principles governing the single mobility system are the principles of transparency, equality, deservedness and publicity. These principles are not vague announcements. They are specifically specific to the characteristics of the single mobility system. The first feature is the purely voluntary nature of mobility. Each official shall have the right to participate in this. The only condition is to cover the positions of its industry in its service of at least 50% and 65% for small municipalities of less than ninety thousand inhabitants. We have heard a criticism here from two different positions. The first is that the voluntary nature of mobility is distorted by the provision of compulsory intra-corporate mobility, that is to say, that we are supposedly opening up the way for compulsory secondments. This is totally irresponsible, of course, because the process of compulsory secondment was something that already existed in the Staff Code, and indeed with a longer and more general application. Those who criticised us in this, obviously have forgotten that two years of time, it was limited to one year for moving within the same prefecture and six months for moving to another prefecture. Furthermore, the decision on the secondment is the assent of the Board of Directors, so there is no question of arbitrary administration. The other counterpart - which even touches the core of the system - is that the lack of compulsory mobility implies inefficiency. We call a voluntary transfer where there is an empty organic position under the above conditions. We have, of course, heard - not exactly clearly, but from opposition party rapporteurs - talking about compulsory transfer. Our difference here is not just ideological in relation to the authoritarianism of compulsory mobility, but it is also practical. Mandatory mobility, proven, is dysfunctional and thus blooms the client state, fills the ministerial offices with requests for exceptions. The same obligation will be circumvented by the side road and we will come to the old 'what you had, what I've always had'. Secondly, the obligation to publish the vacancies through the post of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction on a website. In other words, the whole process will be carried out through this platform, in which the public bodies will declare the vacant posts. Subsequently, each staff member on the basis of his qualifications shall submit the application to the corresponding post. This creates conditions of equal access for all officials. A number of criticisms have been heard here in the committee debate. Let me make it clear here that in paragraph 1 of Article 4 of the bill, it is stated that a prerequisite for the participation of the service in the system is to register the information on the part of the actors in the digital establishment plan. Thirdly, the completion of the transfer or secondment procedures is well-defined and binding. Only one signature from the host institution now needs to be signed without the staff member signing. There is the criticism here that no assent is requested, but simple opinion, in the case of mayors. The answer is that it ensures equal access to the mobility system, both to employees and to operators. This means that it must be understood, especially in local government, that employees are not moved from self-government to elsewhere, but from elsewhere to self-government. This system helps in this way to have targeted recruitments, addressing gaps, and a class in the recruitment scenery, where there really are need. Another important element of the bill is the fact that for the first time the host service is obliged not only to justify its choice, but also to include the comparative assessment of candidates. This arrangement ensures that the Commission's judgement will be objective and fully justified. In three months following the submission of the application, the procedure should be completed. The dozens of signatures required for the simple movement of one employee from one service to another are abolished. The old, time-consuming, irrational and client system of past transfers should end here. Reducing the bureaucracy brought by the bill is not only a practical measure that facilitates the procedures, it also means reducing the cost of operating the public. Through the fight against bureaucracy, the public can save for the years 2017 to 2018 up to EUR 800 million. This is the fiscal aspect of cutting red tape, reducing public costs in a way that solves other problems at the same time. Fourthly, common rules are laid down describing terms, conditions and procedures. It puts an end to the number of special provisions and exceptions currently in force. Transparency is a fundamental social feature of this law. A central role in the coordination and implementation of the single mobility system is the seven-member central mobility agency in the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. Here to make it clear that this service, this body, does not have a decisive role, has a supervisory, coordinating role. It is composed of one of persons who provide increased guarantees of objectivity, such as the representatives of the AACC, the Legal Adviser of the Council of State, on the one hand, of officials responsible for management matters, such as staff management, such as the Administrative Secretarys of Ministries, Heads of Directorates-General of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. In other words, it consists of administrative and not political persons, as we heard in criticism during the dialogue. Also, those who have made this criticism may not have a particular confidence in public officials, which I think they should take into account. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill undoubtedly has a strong social dimension. For the first time, a general right to secondment is introduced to a civil servant with a spouse in the area served by one of them, but also the right to mutual transfer. This is how the needs of family reunification are served. Workers can move around on the basis of their needs, claim their professional development and organize their lives as best as possible at this particularly difficult time of crisis. In this way, the needs of operators are harmonized with the needs of workers. In the context of these social arrangements in the bill, extending the scope of protected categories to recruitment procedures is another important reform. In this way, a timeless inequality is restored to the detriment of people with disabilities, which until now have been excluded from the AACC's competitions. The proportion of people in our country with disabilities is estimated at 10% of the total population. We understand the impact of this important regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform we are aiming to achieve is a great and complex one. The main criticism of the Opposition has focused on the fact that we will not be able to bring about such a change. Someone could say that suspicious criticism. One could say it "sufficiently the desire to become a position". I will say that we on this occasion confirm that this reform will be implemented. It's our big bet and we're gonna win it. We will build up a serious, effective, rapid and functional public administration that stands side by side rather than by the citizen, at the same time shielding the working conditions and functions that release the rich and valid scientific potential and restoring the role of the public official as a production unit and not as a bureaucratic barrier, so that the citizen feels dignity when dealing with the public administration. I think it is an objective that must unite us all and all, and I urge you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. And now we continue with SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr. Theleritis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, following the debate in committee and the hearing of the bodies, I will begin by stressing once again the fact that this draft law forms part of a more general strategic framework for the government's parallel legislative and political initiatives aimed at restructuring the state and substantial reform of public administration. Before we move on to present the draft law, we must all remember in this Chamber what state public administration and self-government have come up with the previous governments over the past five, six years, which have not just wanted to restructure, as they claim today, the system, but have instead sought to shrink and, above all, to deliver them to the private sector. The SYRIZA government has a completely different approach and philosophy. Its aim is to organise a different framework of operation, a framework of social law, synchronised in today's social and popular needs, effective in safeguarding and defending public space and society as a whole. The main philosophy of our administrative policy is the service of citizens with a flexible administration, adapted to social needs, with rules of transparency, control and accountability. In other words, the aim of the government is to lead a new person to the public administration, a person who has begun to take shape with previous legislative initiatives and regulations, namely the law on the democratisation of public administration, the law on the national register, on the graduation of posts, on rating systems, promotions and the selection of heads. The draft law we are debating today is the fourth in a series of public administrations and will follow the next one on the branch. I am referring to this very much in terms of the Central Association, because it has really raised an issue about the fact that we cannot talk about mobility without a modern branch. The next bill will therefore cover precisely the branch, the aim of which is to reduce branches from a thousand four hundred to forty and to become fewer than four hundred. With the government's legislative intervention, its strategy of how it sees reform in public administration is unfolded. It sets out the conditions for a different, more modern, more functional and, above all, closer to the needs of the public. So what is the political framework and the objectives of this draft law? The bill we are debating today contains three areas. The first section relates to the single mobility system based on the voluntary movement of workers, as well as to the new establishment plans, job descriptions and open access to all information system for monitoring the internal market. It aims to put an end to this anarchy and the chaotic situation that existed for decades at the expense of the public interest, but also of the civil servants, who, when even a simpler case, required political intervention. The second section concerns the introduction of incompatibility where there is a risk of a conflict of interest with the State for persons taking up public positions and positions of responsibility. With this introduction, the Government has been opening up for a long time a debate on the so-called rotating ports, a phenomenon that is inextricably linked to neoliberalism, which concerns the appointment to the public administration of people who are committed to business interests and vice versa, the transfer of state officials to speculative lobbys, with internationally known and clear examples, such as the recruitment of President of the European Commission to various companies. In fact, after leaving Brussels, Mr Barozo had acquired another twenty-two points in institutes, foundations and universities. And as we know, he's not the only one. Thirdly, it is the compulsory electronic handling of documents in the public sector, which, over the next two years, will provide savings of EUR 400 million per year in the state budget while combating bureaucracy with tangible and tangible results. Let's take a look at the bill with its funds. In Chapter I on mobility, in the context of the reorganisation of public administration, the mobility of employees is of particular importance, because it is an irreplaceable tool to redistribute its staff, in order to redistribute public administration on the basis of real needs and not political rhetoric. At the same time, it is a tool for the workers themselves, because it exploits each employee on the basis of their formal and substantive qualifications. Mobility can improve the effectiveness of the public administration by allowing the best use of its human resources, by addressing the imbalances of employment in the public sector, namely where there is surplus staff in some sectors and subsistence in others, by enabling workers to move to other departments or bodies of the administration, where it is considered that on the basis of their skills and knowledge they will be able to contribute better, by addressing the new priorities for the implementation of new services and bodies that have emerged or emerged over time, to meet the new needs of the public. What characterised public administration and what was the case to date? A opacity system that served the political establishment, with: Firstly, the absence of criteria for assessing needs in services and staff. Secondly, a total lack of central planning, lack of guarantees and transparency and objectivity in the selection procedures for the post covered, existence of numerous general and specific provisions with unlimited derogations from general principles set by the Staff Code, absence of binding deadlines, to complete a secondment or transfer, bureaucratic burden of the procedures. I don't know how many signatures it took to complete a transfer. In this draft law, therefore, the Government seeks to help rebuild the public administration. Of course, we must note - and here it was right to observe a representative body at the hearing - that mobility is not enough, nor is it a panacea, to address the serious problems of public administration and self-government. We know that recruitment is needed to fill the gaps in order to meet these new, modern pressing needs. We are also aware of the need for an age renewal of public administration. However, mobility can really contribute to rationalising and substantially upgrading the existing mechanism, at the same time indicating gaps, shortcomings, weaknesses, which need to be addressed with new positions. What are the innovative elements of this Mobility Legislation? First of all, for the first time in administrative history, the question of mobility is dealt with comprehensively and uniformly, general principles are laid down. In fact, substantial innovation in this proposed system is the voluntary nature of mobility. The cores of this new mobility are the connection of needs. On the one hand, we have the needs of the service, and on the other hand, we have the individual choices of the employees. The coverage of the seats is published and, in fact, in a circle of three times and there is a post on an electronic platform, so there is transparency. At this point I would like to refer to the criticisms made by the Opposition on the non-movement of the public sector due to the volunteerity of mobility. It is an expected criticism, which to a large extent, judging by the outcome of the policies that have been followed in recent years, we have not expected anything more. But a number of questions are raised: Do you think that today, with the withdrawal of four hundred thousand officials and the reduction of about a thousand staff a year, there is a need for the necessity? Do you think that any reform can be carried out if it does not have all those involved themselves, i.e. civil servants and self-government officials? Do you think the administration should be punishing civil servants? To move them wherever he wants without taking into account the needs or living conditions of these workers, as has been done for years for the abolition of branches and specialties for the coexistence of operators and services? Because we really have a completely different approach. Civil servants and employees in self-government are allies of the government in restructuring and in the business sectors. The Government must set the framework, terms and conditions for operators and employees. But we as a philosophy choose cooperation and voluntary movement, because we really trust this human potential and because we believe that mobility can really improve efficiency. Secondly, what has not been understood by opposition is the organisational framework of this mobility. In fact, he's had enough criticism. This is the so-called Central Mobility Committee, a collective body with increased guarantees of objectivity, impartiality and knowledge. The Central Mobility Committee shall coordinate and supervise the implementation of the single system, assess the stakeholders’ requests and be supervised by the management of the digital establishment plan of the public administration. It does not override the service council, but it is an additional body next to the service that ensures greater transparency. Thirdly, the fight against bureaucracy. Tens of signatures are now being signed for the simple movement of one employee from one service to another. This has become a past. Fourth point: Security differences for operators. And here it is really a response again to the opposition that security barriers are put into the system to ensure that no service is weakened and will continue to operate on a normal level. And that is what the Central Mobility Committee ensures. What did he characterize and what was the case to this day? It was precisely this system that was built on an old type of architecture of public services and could not follow the organisational and thematic development of the public sector. It has served the old system, which, over the past five years, instead of replacing it, has made it increasingly complicated and has contributed to the reproduction of the pelagic rule. That is why the mobility system is a key tool for us to improve public administration. Fifth point: Simplification of mutual transfer and co-service. That is what we shall be talking about in the debate on the subject. The second part of this draft law lays down inconsistency and prevention of conflicts of interest and other provisions. As I said before in the draft law, a number of control procedures are provided for in the draft law to eliminate the phenomenon of movement of persons from and from the private sector. These provisions should be noted as applying relevant rules and recommendations to international and European institutions, such as the UN Convention. In addition, despite all the problems at European level, we must recall that the European Parliament resolution of 11 June 2013 on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. In addition, we shall refer to the debate on the motion for a resolution. There is a reasonable question here that can be asked to the contrary if it really wants this regulation to exist in the case of rotating doors and we will see the criticism that they are going to have in the actual debate. Finally, there is the third chapter with the other provisions. Here, in fact, the electronic procedure for the movement of administrative documents and documents is, we would say, a great innovation, although we should recall that there was a legal framework for the introduction of electronic signature. It has existed since 2011, it has not been activated, and the Greek State has to stress that it has spent the last 15 years around 6 billion, insisting on paper and paper processes. By this arrangement for the following two years, 2017-2018, the State may save the amount of 800 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition to the economic benefits, we must point out that bureaucratic structures are being reduced and it is being supported - give me two minutes and conclude - the general demand for transparency in public administration. Finally, there are special articles on measures for persons with disabilities and vulnerable groups. This is what we shall be discussing in detail. To conclude, I would really like to refer to the arguments of the Opposition, whether this draft law is inapplicable or not. It is inappropriate because it is part of the whole strategy and planning of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for how it sees public administration. With this fourth draft law, therefore, these planned arrangements should come, because there has already been a start on both the register and a series of other procedures provided for in the previous legislation. Secondly, there is a series of interventions which have already been initiated, and yes, the process and restructuring of the administration must be aware that it will take a long time. There is no reform that does not last long enough, and we all know that. We will also have a good record of the needs, which is a prerequisite for any reform to succeed. That is why we call it restructuring. It therefore includes a series of institutional, organisational, administrative, operational changes at various levels that are taking place at the same time. And this must be stressed, and it is a challenge that we have undertaken in relation to our strategic planning. In conclusion, the government's aim is to guarantee equality, transparency and dignity, to restructure the state, to reform public administration and self-government, and to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-three students and students and three teachers from the New Seleucia High School. The House, guys, welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed to the rapporteur, Mr Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u10	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u11	You're welcome. Do you now want the floor, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u12	In fact, because I have to submit legislative improvements, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u13	Let's hear the legal first, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u14	I will give you the floor, Minister, and then I will give my colleagues the legal improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u15	Mr President, as you know, the principle of orality prevails in the House. And I say that, because many times as many people. Ministers bring in and distribute either additions or improvements or amendments without first reading them. This violates the principle of orality, because, as we all know, the reason for democracy is oral, that is, it is addressed to the listener and from whom the Minister expects the answer. So I think we should listen to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u16	That's why I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u17	I'm making it easier for you, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u18	To keep them in mind, before your suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u19	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u20	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u21	I say what you have in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u22	But that's what I asked!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u23	Well done, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u24	Mr Javarra, Mrs Gerovas called for the floor and she spoke before the rapporteurs, so if you like, she gave the opening and the placements will be better. So, I think it's okay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u25	There are eleven legislative improvements, mainly resulting from the remarks made yesterday by many of you. The first is in Article 5 and in line with the comments made in yesterday's debate, the responsibilities of the Central Mobility Committee are clarified and its opinion is expressly expressed on the redistribution of staff to public services, after restructuring of services, and the term ‘proved particular health reasons’ is added. In the second legislative improvement you will see, in Article 7, the case of services in which there is no Director-General or the number of directors is not sufficient to set up the three-member committee. The third, in the same Article, Article 7, states that participation as an observer of the representative of the worker's association is not subject to the will of the tripartite, but will be compulsory. The fourth Legislative Decree, also in Article 7, shall specify the body which adopts the decision on secondment or transfer on serious grounds of health, since the Article 7 Committee is of an advisory nature. In the fifth legislative improvement, the case where there is no board of directors is covered, so that they can apply for secondment when the law is published in accordance with the transitional provision referred to in Article 18. In the sixth Legislation, in Article 19, the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority and the Secretariat-General for Combating Corruption are added to the exceptions to the secondments. The Seventh Legislation, in Article 19, provides for special provisions on posting of teachers to be maintained in the Ministry of Education services. In the eighth and ninth, in Article 24, the terms 'approved electronic signature and approved electronic stamp' are correctly recast in order - the observation was made yesterday - to align it with the European regulation, eIDAS. In the tenth Legislative Decree, Article 31 increases the number of days leave for children, in the case of polytexts and tritecs, as also emerged from yesterday's debate with the polytexts and tritecites. At the eleventh and last, in Article 36, in accordance with the debate that took place yesterday, we amended it so that for the graduates of the University of Thessaly no certificate of the competent institution of IOI is required that the degree or diploma covers with complete competence the subject matter of the degree in Ichthology. These are the legislative improvements. We will talk about the amendments later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u26	Please, the legislative improvements to be distributed to Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u27	Mr President, some amendments have been tabled to the secretariat. As soon as I have the approval, I'll talk about some of them. Three ministerialmen come in from me. In any case, those who are present tonight will close the subject of the amendments. We'll talk about them, you'll see them and we'll talk tomorrow. However, there will be no evidence other than that already submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u28	Mr Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is one of the few times that, in a bill, one of the main issues that concerns Members is whether or not this bill will be implemented in the end. This on its own shows that something has not been done well. But outside of what the bill itself shows that something has gone wrong, there is something else that escapes you. You forget it. Now, Minister, you have twenty-two months of government service in front of you. Your legislation is now being assessed, judged. Your intentions, your effectiveness, are being judged, so now we are not just skeptical, but we are convinced that, unfortunately, this bill, even as it comes, will not be able to be implemented. You have often invited N.4369/2016. Let me remind colleagues that it is the main public administration law, which came here from the previous Minister in February. We had voiced the same objections that this piece of legislation would not be possible. There were a lot of issues. We've confirmed that while we've been confirmed, there's specific data, you don't learn from it and you keep going even worse. Therefore, as of 30 July 2016, the State’s executive register had to function, according to your choice, the central option for the decommissioning of the State. To understand the world, it is a central tank in which all the demands of people of the public, senior civil servants, who would like to take up positions of responsibility. Of course, as of 30 September, any position of responsibility has been vacant, whether in the public or public-controlled bodies, to be covered by this procedure. In a week we have December, and of course the register is not working. Of course, all this time you've hired people, you've placed people in these positions. The criteria are either party status or family relationship, and I am convinced that this is about the vast majority of executives who have been placed by you in these months. But there's something else worrying about this law. I have to say that. He has been denounced to the conscience of civil servants, since twenty days ago we had a hearing with the President of the AACC, and he told us that in this register applications were made, which on that day 15 days ago, i.e. after three and a half months of operation, reached the six hundred to a potential number of beneficiaries of many tens of thousands of civil servants. So you're coming now and you're starting a law on voluntary public mobility. Sounds really good. The civil servants who are listening to you at the moment think that it opens a door to anyone moving, as they want, quickly, I do not know how - I will say it below - but we will say something very simple. The law itself presupposes the creation of organograms, the location profiles and the digital organogram. These things, for which you have made a few very little progress, will become the next four months in some months. That's what you're telling us. It is one of the few times that a bill is passed, which has one condition, which is clear if it can be implemented. There is another parameter here: even the ones that will be implemented will often be implemented with purpose. I said that to the committee. Think of a municipality, which has a few employees. Under this law, if 65% of empty posts are covered, an employee will be able to apply for and leave without any other condition. I'm talking about small municipalities, because the big ones are 50%. This mayor knows he wants them all, he doesn't want anyone to leave. By shaping the organogram now, in the next few months, you tell him "do your organogram and then let's see what we're going to do with mobility". It can organize in such a way the need for officials who cannot leave, rightfully or unfairly. We are currently giving service directors, mayors, all the presidents, the opportunity to form an organisational chart with a law which will be applied afterward. Couldn't this law wait for us to find another way to force the administration to complete its obligation to organize schedules and position profiles? I have heard as a reason on the part of the Minister that this is also a pressure on these bodies to complete their organograms. Couldn't the administration find any other way? In other words, it had to start it upside down, and it had to enable some to operate with purpose. Look at what is, unfortunately, the central idea of this piece of legislation: there is neither transparency nor objectivity in the choice of staff that will eventually be moved. Unfortunately, and I say this very simply, Article 7 for me is a monument of manipulation, a lack of objective elements, a lack of data and a framework within which a favoured state can operate, in a legitimate process with objective criteria, so that no one can be wronged. I read to make it understandable to colleagues: Article 7 describes the three-member committee which the host institution, in other words, where the staff member is to go, will decide which staff member they will take. Of the three senior officials who set up this committee, the relationship is curious. It's a relationship head of authority to existing ones. They're not three different employees, independent service directors. We have the Director-General, we have the Head of Department, and we also have the Head of Staff. Anyone in here thinks that the principal won't be heard, let's go out and say it. We've got one actually to decide. There's a clerk I told you about. Let these three come to decide who will come from Mytilini, who will come from Crete, who will come from Evros to Thessaloniki. What are the criteria? Listen: ‘For the evaluation of the candidates, account shall be taken of the relevance of the formal and substantive qualifications with the declared post, the evaluation reports, the experience in the performance of their respective duties and any evidence from the staff register showing the suitability for the post in question.’ I want to get a mechanic in the municipality of Kilkis. The formal qualification is one: to have the engineer's degree. That's how the position will be called. He can't be proclaimed in another way. So I want to serve an alpha situation, I have ten years of experience and another has three. However, the other person who has the three years can write and declare "I dealt with building a bridge where I was serving in the Municipality of Evros". That's what we want. We want to use him to build bridges in the municipality of Kilkis. So, he's got the best experience, so he does us, so we get him. And why are we taking him? Because he can happen to know every mayor, every congressman, every vice-president, anyone. Do you know where I want to end up? Are we kidding? Is this a serious assessment on objective criteria, so that we do not allow the margin for each tomorrow to function in an arbitrary manner and to create a customer relationship, which will in fact have a political appearance? Because in all these agencies there are political leaders. And we conclude that, if three are finally put forward, these three will have to go through an interview for the committee to come up with. What interview? What will the interview assess? Will it be structured? Describe the limits and context of the questions, how this examination will be carried out? I insist on Article 7, because it is central to the whole process. He's the hosting body. He's the one who's gonna welcome anyone to welcome. But the government responds: in any case we have an obligation to justify it, as if the obligation to justify it was the one which would make all this procedure objective. A comparative evaluation and a justification - we have very good lawyers in here - you know how easy and very well, setting a target on a particular person from the start, we may interpret it in such a way as to justify our choice. It's easy. And, of course, there is no provision for objecting to the result, leaving us to the general principles of administrative procedure. So how do we get out and tell the world today that, you know, we did this, we solve this problem. He who is entitled to leave Evros will leave to come to Thessaloniki because he has his family there, which is reasonable. You have a dreadful ability: Bring legislation in which, without specific legislation and without bringing concrete results, a hope will arise in the world that, in fact, through this process can be vindicated. To know, therefore, that even if it is working, that is, all the prerequisites are met, as this procedure is mentioned and runs, every employee concerned will be a barbaric in the hands of this three-member committee without any objective criterion. It will not assess its real skills because they can be shaped as soon as there is no outline of the framework in which the committee operates.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u30	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u31	There's a lot we can suggest. Are you here to talk about it? There's seven months in consultation of the bill. Of course, for some articles - and that makes me very surprised - there was no possibility of commenting on consultation. This, Mr Colleague, take a look at it. Get into the consultation and look at it. For five or six articles in the consultation, I do not know why, for the first time, I see that, it was forbidden to post comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u32	There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u33	There is. For five or six articles. I'll tell you later in my denture and what these articles are. In the consultation report some of the articles were not allowed to post comments. I don't know why. So we have issues that can by no means make us proud of a process that comes at a time that we all really think of political staff, but society really wants to have an assessment of the circumstances, of the people, of the data and be able to function as objectively as possible. I think we all want that. But we should also go to the seven-member committee, the Central Mobility Committee, Article 5. I took it backwards, as the Ministry goes backwards, the thought of his legislation. Why should one of the seven members be independent? What do I mean, "not independently"? The two are political faces. They're administrative secretaries. Of course, we need to find Mr.4369/2016. Let's see when they can do this. The two other persons are senior officials of the Ministries, but we can understand and imply that a relationship of dependence, small or large, will exist with the political leader and the only two members are from the ASP and one from the State Law Council. Why should this four - three not be backwards four - three? Here you go, Minister. Be backwards four to three. Put three members from the ADP. Have the ASA do the contest. You know, ASAP doesn't have much to do with it anymore. There's not a lot of notices. There's not a lot of competitions. Why not entrust this trustworthy body with the whole process? Why don't we entrust it? Why get into all these terrain and all these purposes that you really want to serve? Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy could never vote in favour of a bill with that logic, in this way that is structured and with this result, which will be a total waste, and we will ultimately abusing people. Two words about the second part of the bill dealing with the obstacles and the incompatibility of the private sector's people who want to take a responsibility. It's part of the law on government officials and it's coming here to clarify the circumstances. I put a question to the committee. I don't know if that was understood. I'm putting it again now. One is the main question. One can say that these incompatibilities and obstacles are excessive. Another can say that they are the ones that prevail throughout Europe. That's what it sounds like. I will accept them, although I really believe that some of them effectively prevent any private, free professional, from entering the process of claiming a post of executive in the public sector. However, in order to ultimately target this bill and the previous one, which is the state's colonisation, this refers to the recital in L.4369/2016, there is one detail here that we should perhaps legislate on. Let's all make an agreement. Why should there not be a coma when the choice of the person refers to a person who has a party position? Why? [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I need a minute, Mr President. Why not decide that the person with a party post, working relationship or anything else with a party cannot take such a responsibility, whether he is a civil servant or a private person? That would really be part of the colonization. We are to accept it and serve it now, which we know will be the government tomorrow. Now. You can bring it and support it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think that since we have not been able to offer many things to the Greeks now, since the economic situation is what it is, as has been worsened in recent times, at least when they deserve something, they must receive it with objectivity, credibility and justice. This bill does not serve our obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u34	Thank you, too. We shall proceed to the third rapporteur, Mr Panayotaros, a special speaker of the Golden Dawn. Please, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. After more than forty years of opacity and customer relations, you bring in a bill that is supposed to settle the bad texts of the wider public sector. The issue is who are called upon to reform the public sector as its self-determined saviors, former workers, all kinds of state-run people or people who had a direct business relationship with the public. The main leaders along with all those who have government in post-government government within a veil of opacity, lovitour and customer relations. Minister, no one believes you want or can correct the wrong texts and with this bill, your people, the bolts, will take advantage of the various loopholes, which in this bill you have left them openly, so that they can continue to operate as the public sector has been operating for decades. On the other hand, for more than two years you have been in the government, you have given us written samples, more characteristic of the gift, Mr Karanika, who has been appointed in a very important position and for his qualifications, no one has ever told us anything. Also, the nationally-driven memorials you have all voted for, here in Parliament, the three, wipe out the Greek countryside, the border areas, the small and remote islands, the main parts for which the Greek state should aim through the public sector to remain alive, to be present and not to be devastated at the expense of the country's national security. What can we do with mobility in Athens, Thessaloniki and the major urban centres when there will be nothing at the border? There will be no public services as they close or move elsewhere or shrink. What are we going to do with mobility when there is no army, because the personnel of the Armed Forces are dramatically falling, public services are being abolished, particularly at the border, on small islands, on the countryside and slowly transferred to the large urban centres? And together, of course, with the services that are being closed and the civil servants, who were sending these services. They are removed, the soldiers leave, and with them all those who are active around them. Move in a completely wrong direction. The first concern of a nationally thought-out authority, as far as the public sector is concerned, should be to restructure the wider public sector on the basis of national criteria. The public in a critical role, in the service of the nation, rather than party clientele, service and covet. There should be 100% in all kinds of public services, in the Armed Forces, in hospitals, in educational institutions, which are at the border or in the islands or in the countryside, rather than closure and shrinking as we see happening. They close the taxes on the islands, close the JEPs, close the service, close the other, make citizens troubled, in order to deal with the various issues, their various issues. And, of course, when the turnover is shrinking even with the public in these remote areas, many individuals slowly leave and leave after a while. That is the only way to maintain the Treaty of Lausanne, as it is timely. Not with blessings, but with a population full of locusts, our islands and elsewhere. And why not, then, besides the Treaty of Lausanne, claim more. If you want to close and shrink - and that is not what you want to do - public services - because all that is, you say, voluntaryly - do it in the hydro-heads urban centres, find the lost civil servants, as you said, Minister, that there are civil servants who do not know where they are. Thank you very much, we know, the whole of Greece knows, because the figures do not coincide with reality and this also works at the expense of the many civil servants who are conscientious and fight in public services alone when their colleagues are lost or enslaved elsewhere. Eunuchous, you said, the nature of mobility. But then nobody's going to leave. If someone's comfortable with a service, why would he leave? What if this service has overcapacity and another agency has no executive at all? What happens in this case? Should the need for one service not prevail over the other service? Should we beg or rely on the 'patriotism' of each civil servant if he wants to go somewhere else? No, there's nothing going on. Obligation on necessity. You said the requirement was backwards. Yes, it is. And what's the need? Isn't it primarily in relation to what you said? In this bill we have also talked and heard about obstacles. Part of the bill refers to various obstacles. We have quite rightly heard of the party blockages that should have a formula not suited to party officials in the public sector when the party is in power, but there should be other obstacles, relatives, because all the relatives of all the rulings are at their disposal in public positions and we see it as a perimeter and not just as small or anything else. Here I would like to make a little comment in the New Democracy, which moves the finger now, but ruled for a few hundred years along with the PASOK. They are the main leaders of these two parties in the opposition and in the public sector, and they cannot now come and say what they have never observed for any reason. This bill will deal with certain specific articles that have some interest, such as Article 5, where the role of coordinator and supervisor is undergoing a seven-member Central Mobility Committee. We are totally negative in this article because of the way in which this committee and the people who will join it will come from it, as they will very much come from the party mechanism. These are the well-known windows that we have foretold and which you have kept for this reason. In Article 7 we see here that the role and jurisdiction of the services councils are being nullified and three-member committees are taking over. The consequence is that the employee representatives have been unable to participate in the decision to transfer or extract. It is an unfavorable provision, a mistake, no mistake is corrected with something better and it finds us opposing. Article 8 - is of great interest to this article - it has to do with incentives for decentralisation, what we have been telling you. Although, as mentioned above, we are reluctant to increase the Government's willingness to increase the incentives to staff the remote and border regions, which should be the primary concern of a nationally thought-out government, we are associated with this provision, as we support this disapprovement, the revitalization of the Greek province and the strengthening of the border with the best possible means or appropriate solution, and that is why we will vote'residents'. In Article 11 - and here it is very interesting - we see that a number of positions of globalisation have been promoted and the dissolution has been indirectly promoted by the foundation of the family. Law4356/2015 on co-pilots extends, consolidated, generalized the legal power of co-existence between homosexuals, which is a back-end knife in the institution of the true, normal Greek Orthodox family. And when you say that apart from married couples serving in different areas, services and having the right to mingle, the same will apply to cohabitants and tomorrow with the new laws that are passed these days and the next few days will be possible for ordinary cohabiters, but to ordinary cohabiters are homosexuals, who will have this right. Well, because we believe in the institution of the family, we think that in every way and every way these beneficial criteria should apply, but only to married couples, who are married, not even to cohabitants. In Article 25, we also see another effort by the state to reduce the percentages of certain groups of citizens in their recruitment to the public sector or in other situations. We have received a letter, like you, from the luxurious associations who say: 'Stop putting an end to the demographic collapse of the country'. With this article, Article 25 of Law No 2190/1994, which had certain import rates in the public and in general where procedures are in place, we see that the percentage of tents falls from 20% to 15%, from 5% to 2% and from 10% to 2%. Why are you doing this? For whose benefit? These vulnerable social groups, national social groups, groups such as the multiples, which should have crowns on our heads and support them multiplely and diversely, are reducing their possibilities to stand on their feet. That is why Article 25 clearly states 'no'. Article 29 is an article we agree with. It says here that there is a basic condition for anyone in the public sector to be that he must have fulfilled his military obligations. That's right. This should be alpha and omega for all the moves of a state, whether it has anything to do with appointments to the public sector or anything else. Anyone who has not served his military service has absolutely no right to anything in this country. And if he doesn't like it, he'll get up and go somewhere else. With Article 33, we agree. This provides that the successful admission examinations at the Police School and at the Police School of the Hellenic Police in 2015-2016 and 2016-2017 will be able to register in schools from the academic year 2017-2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u36	The Minister's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u37	It's okay, we're used to it. Clearly, we agree on that. Of course, the disgrace of the pseudo-Romanian state, the monumental Greek state, is that the police schools in Komotini and elsewhere were closed, they became centres for the hospitality of illegal immigrants and the successful ones in these schools were unable to attend. That's how they thought we saved some money, and now they're going to spend two years late with what that means. In Articles 34 and 36, we say 'no', because we see that some who have not studied in the farming schools will be able to practice their professions. Then why would anyone study something and not have the exclusive right to practice this profession and come from similar professions or independent professions and be able to practice this profession? For Article 37, we are negative. We say 'no' because the underlying acts of interlocutory, corruption, bribes and micropolitical interests are perceived in this provision when the district manager has jurisdiction to issue telecommunications and gambling licences. The other articles will refer to the next speakers. In conclusion, we would like to say, once again, that the main pillars of an economy and a society are mostly the free professionals, farmers, craftsmen, all those who are engaged in the primary sector, something for which the Memorandum Governments, and the present and the previous ones, give no basis. You are exterminating all these things, at the same time dismantling the existing public structures - we repeat - from the extreme regions and we see the tragic phenomenon on the one hand that Greeks are forced to leave or go to the large urban centers or go abroad at the same time hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants from all over the world, other religions invading our homeland and plunging into the remote islands, the countryside and elsewhere, to the detriment of all those for which our fathers, grandparents, our great-grandparents and great-grandfathers have fought to free this place. We believe that this bill is also a Rusphetan bill. You consider that with his tactics he turns through the engagement you will correct the evil texts. You will continue the same vicious practices. You've been doing the same for two years. Clearly, we are voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u38	Thank you. We're moving on with the next special speaker. Mr. Papatheodorou from the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR has the floor for fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I would first like to express our satisfaction at the fact that many of the remarks we have been discussing yesterday are incorporated into the new form under the legal correction that you have made. However, I would like to start by consulting two basic principles: firstly, I read the explanatory statement very carefully - and you know that the explanatory statement is the main text of each legislative initiative - and I looked for the purpose of mobility, not the preconditions and the content of mobility and transfers. Since this has not been found anywhere, I would like to agree that in general mobility, secondments and transfers serve on the one hand the needs of staffing and upgrading public administration services. They are, of course, responding to the demands of public officials in the public administration, and that must be the case, which is why we agree on the nature of voluntary transfer, but it cannot be the only one. Finally, they also serve the flexibility of public services. This in one form is understood by you, too, when you talk about redistribution of personnel. But how can this be done? Why, speaking with the officials, with the public sector, what is not guaranteed today by the government's legislative initiative, Minister, is a unique and secure environment in which employees must move, knowing established rules, criteria, mobilisation and evaluation. If this is not the case, each minister will be able to come up with new rules, as the current government has done, and on the other hand these rules will change, creating an insecurity environment for the civil servant. So what I think should be cleared up, even until tomorrow when the bill is passed, Minister, is what criteria are. On which criteria an official will know that he can be transferred without being subject to or dependent on any political, party, service and hierarchical criterion. The second issue is what the consolidated rules are. So, is there or is there no molecules? We'll have to see that. If we do not have a moleculosis, either in the secondment, which exists in all areas or in the transfer, then you can understand that both the seven-member and the three-member organ have a wide margin of arbitrariness. In order to do all this, I think that we should not go from the end to the beginning, but start from the base, to which at least we can agree. There is no law in this draft law. We must, however, agree that, in order to reach the new establishment plans and new transfers, Minister, we must begin first of all by describing the needs of the services, that is to say, what each service needs. Secondly, we need to assess the structures. Why, if we do not evaluate the structures, how do we know the needs? Therefore, an assessment of structures and changes, a contour of positions in a safe and stable manner and an organisational plan should be made. You haven't done the organograms so far, you haven't done it by now. Organograms cannot be made either in two, in three or four months. I'm going to tell you something fragile about the draft law. The organograms were killed by the previous government under the pressure of the troika. For six to seven months, the organograms were gone and turned until we get to the validation of the organograms of the ministries alone. And you want here in four months to build the establishment plans for the entire public administration! You can understand that this is not the case. This is not reproaching your own government's walk, because it was made by the previous Minister. I mean, it's also the philosophy of the government, " put it into a law, we'll never apply it. And because we will never implement it, we will have to show it and say that we have reformed it," as if not everyone knows within and outside Greece that so far there has been a retreat in reforms and never - if you want, in our view - greater vigilance towards them. In my opinion, therefore, the shape you are proposing is not sustainable. We will, however, go to two examples, which I want to agree on, because you have made a first - if you like - acceptance of our proposals. We are now going to the problems caused by your legal correction. You say in Article 5 - and it is important - that the redistribution of staff is among the responsibilities of the Central Committee. Isn't that right? The Central Committee shall deliver an opinion on the reallocation of staff. If you want us to consult and use the same terminology, it cannot give an opinion on the redistribution of staff, it gives an opinion on the redistribution of positions. The positions are different, but they are the staff who occupy the positions. He can't give his opinion. It's not the same at all. The second: Article 18: For those who will not have been seconded, Mrs. Minister, or who will not have made a transfer, or who will not have accepted their application - because you have made an attempt to adjust Article 18 - you have said that even if there is no board, you are giving the solution. That's right. Article 18 also states that those who have not been accepted should return to their previous position on 15 April. Do we agree on that? Big Saturday. I want to put you two problems. You want the Great Sabbath to return these people to their previous positions automatically, without issuing a joint ministerial decision. They will therefore leave the post they are and will return to their previous position, without any decision being made, only on the basis of this article that says they will have to return. Nor will the administration have taken care of substituting their services on the one hand, but neither will anyone know that the employee is leaving and going where they were. This, please, change it! He needs to change. Can I tell you the human dimension? Think of mothers seconded - I give you examples that have brought me - and on April 15, before Easter, Great Saturday must return to their place and their children must be in school in another town. You understand that neither you want it, but nobody wants it. I therefore think that we should go by 30 June, at least the educational procedures for people who know that they offer the public and these secondments, even if their request has not been accepted, should be able to be completed in a year that will not cause great problems. I think that if you look at it, we will agree that I am not right, but that the people who will be found - if you like - 'blacks' in Easter. And I would like to say another thing: to predict - if you have the kindness - and to make a ministerial decision, because no officials in Greece and the world are moving without a ministerial decision. We must go to the other articles which are important: as far as the three cycles are concerned each year, I think we should agree here, Minister, again. I think Mr. Paradoxopoulos said so yesterday. We have adopted what the representatives of ADED and other bodies have said at the first moment, that it is not possible for the public administration to be in a process of secondments and transfers three times a year for a simple reason. You've been practicing, too, I've been practicing. I would like to tell you that if you have a staff member who did not leave at one time and wants to leave the next and wants to leave the next, you can understand that it disturbs the smooth - to say it elegantly - the function of the service is more important than hierarchical. In any case, I understand your galantic attitude to the service of these demands, but once a year, that is, I think it is enough for the public administration to be in such a process. Article 7 refers to the appointment of a three-member committee of each body to be set up to carry out the evaluation of candidates. This means that, as we said yesterday, an employee is judged for many posts and many agencies can lose many employees. Here needs a potion. We are, as we have said, in favour of voluntary service. At the same time, however, the agency should also be able to meet its needs when it needs officials. I am not going to adopt what other Members of this House have said that we are in a public administration which has surplus staff. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Most of the key services are staffed with a great deal of effort by a staff that is remnant of needs. What is the problem with public administration? The problem of public administration today is that the right officials have not been matched with the needs of the posts, because in no case has the outlines of positions taken place so far, the evaluation of employees, the assessment of structures so that when you have more officials in a service, you can place them where we need them. I will give you an example. When I was a dean at the University of Peloponnese we then asked, with the first transfer, to place strains leaving the OSE. And we said this: can we not choose people, offer qualifications? So it takes the stimulus so that people cannot come to a service which cannot be exploited by the service itself, but they too will not be able to work. The law at the time, in 2010, did not provide for this because it was only necessary to satisfy these demands of officials who left one agency to go to another. You can understand that this cannot function as goodly as any minister on the one hand. As far as the secondment of a Minister of State to Article 9 is concerned, we have told you that it is moving in the right direction and that it should be applied to the municipalities, because there is now intra-democratic mobility as necessary, Minister, as well as intra-Germany. As you can see, in the context of the administrative needs of a ministry we can transfer, second and place officials who are qualified, I very simply believe that the same could be done in the municipality. And let me tell you something else. There was a period during which the transfers, being regarded as quasi-equipped appointments, were taken by the institutions - the troika previously, etc. - as new appointments and the public administration could not function. Then the government was pressed for availability. Today, when you don't have that pressure, why don't you do it right? Today that you do not have the pressure that every transfer is an appointment - no available resources would have been made if the current regime were in place - why do you not assess the staff, do you not describe the posts so that there is a safe working framework for employees, efficient for the administration? I think that at the moment you can do so, but free from what you want to promote, that is, an influence through the two committees, particularly the seven-member committee, on the opinions and direction you will give to mobility, particularly those for people who might be interested in your political body. On the other hand, I come to the digital organogram regulated in Article 16. We do not have a procedure here to draw up the lists of posts, nor do we have the criteria for the integration of officials into them. Because what should be done, ladies and gentlemen, when we do the job contour, is to see whether the positions that belong to a service correspond to the qualifications of those who come to serve in these positions. So, that's where we need, you need, we need administration beyond voluntary and intra-hybrid or intra-service transfer, mobility, secondment. As for the digital organisational chart, which is laid down as a technological basis for the whole structure of mobility, it should have a very specific timeline and timeline, because there is so far no state preparation for this necessary initiative. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. Since there is no state preparation, how can we say that by 15 April or 30 April, that is to say in four months, a bill of this kind can be implemented? I am going to an essential issue which, Minister, also comes from the SETE. If we want to, we must take a very small step forward, which the whole of Europe has done in relation to the electronic signature. I am pleased that you have accepted the correct change in terminology. But I want to tell you this. Why are we confined to Article 24, par. 6a by saying that each body ensures that it is integrated into the Central SGEI, as well as for the acquisition of advanced digital signatures by the Certification Authority of the Greek State? Why just from the public, Minister? We have an independent authority that has at the same time certified private providers of this service. We have public bodies today that have recourse to these private bodies, because no one else can certify such a signature, since there is no legislative framework. So I was going to tell you this. Each public body ensures the acquisition of advanced digital signatures by the Certification Authority of the Greek State, if it wishes to, or by another certified provider of recognised certificates, because this exists in our lives and works. Just to say that the central HSF will do so, it means very simply that in the next six months you will have a stack of requests too great that it will not favour the administration and we will not proceed with the electronic signature. They were telling me that we are the only state in Europe that does not have an electronic signature in the public service. This is not a regression, it is a failure to communicate with the outside. You understand that - for which there are not only a party's responsibilities, but also a lot of responsibilities - I think that we can now do so quickly, because public administration, Minister, needs to be modernised, and in the light of its needs and a reformist perspective. I am afraid - and we told you yesterday - that this bill, despite yours, if you wish, is not moving in that direction. I think you should free it from any partyism, from any suspicion that the seven-member committee can guide - either advisoryly or not - the subsequent transitions and open up transfers around the world, so that positions and qualifications can be quickly evaluated. One last word. The word 'evaluate' means you will accept the assessment in public. Public evaluation is an assessment of structures and persons. Evaluation means a broad program...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u40	But we've accepted her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u41	Not what we voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u42	The last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u43	Not what we voted on the previous one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u44	Finish, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u45	I'm done, Mr. President. Evaluation means that we will agree that everyone is assessed on the basis of their qualifications and not on the basis of a trick, such as interviews. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u46	We said there was some understanding in time, but not beyond. In support of the amendment, the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Vitsa, will be given the floor in support of the amendment "Completion of the provisions of Article 40, is provided to IFRA personnel of the companies "Greek Defence Systems S.A.", "Medical Industry of Epirus Unique S.A." and "Greek Vehicle Industry S.A.", the transferability". Please, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u47	It concerns the amendment of a general number 767 and a special number 7, and I want to say two things and give a very good answer that I owe Mr Carras. It is not a question of political controversy. The ELECTROMAN KYMIS company is well-known for many years - we have reached the decade - and that is why we find this solution so that people can find a job. This does not deprive them of the right to claim and pay the previous dues. Secondly, on this occasion we are also giving a possibility to two companies that are in special liquidation, to ELVO and to the "Continental Metal Industry". This possibility given to these two companies does not mean that anyone who wants to apply will be transferred. We will count two issues: firstly, the company's business and secondly, what will be luck and opportunities. And I am saying this in particular about the 'Metal Industry of Epirus', which is currently a profitable company. As far as NSAs are concerned, what we are doing is a surplus of what we are doing, in this sense. In fact - and we will move in this direction - it concerns the workers at Elefsinas, to the extent that they are not absorbed - by the "ELLENIC EVENTS". That is what the amendment describes. So no panic and no anxiety about them. With regard to the question I promised to answer Mr Carras, the "Metermal Industry of Epirus" has fifty-four employees, of which twenty-two are administrative staff and thirty-two workers. The "Greek Vehicle Industry", ELVO, has three hundred and thirty-eight employees, of which four are administrative staff and the two hundred and thirty-four are workers. I must tell you that after the agreement between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and ELVO, 7.2 million have been given - that is, most of them - from earlier debts to ELVO, as well as 1.5 million. Therefore, workers are normally paid until the clearance procedures are completed. And as far as the NSAs of Elefsina are concerned, there are twenty-two employees, five of whom are administrative staff and seventeen workers, of a total of thirty-three, who are administrative and thirty-three-three-three, that is, five-sixteen in four factories, in Saint Hymettos, Lavrios, and Mandra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u49	Mr. President, may I? I would like to ask the Minister a question to facilitate the New Democracy's attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u50	Yeah, but we have other speakers. We're still not done. Then we'll start having a conversation. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u51	Just one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u52	How many minutes do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u53	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u54	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u55	Minister, in order to have an image and to assess the attitude of the New Democracy towards this amendment, I would like to tell you this. We want there to be a safeguard in some way, either verbally or in the text, that it concerns contractors who have been recruited in accordance with the tender procedures, whenever they have been foreseen and made in previous years. There is one concern - to say this - whether it is not just workers who are there five, ten, twenty years, but whether there are contractors who have been lately - to say so and you will allow me, I will not question what you say - they have been hired, I think, with normal notices, so perhaps they can be mentioned in particular, for example, those made in 2005, 1998. I don't know when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u56	Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u57	For the four companies, i.e., MBI "ELECTRONIC KYC", EBO and SA Elefsina, I tell you a thousand per cent that there are no other employees. Secondly, the OSH has stopped the contractor's or contract workers and none of them enters such a process. We are only talking about those who have been in vague time and most of whom have been working in these companies for decades, and I say to you under three conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u58	Yes, that's what we wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u59	One condition is their work, the permanent relationship, the second condition that they are not operationally necessary, with the exception of the NSAs and the third condition, in particular for the “MATTER BIBLE”, which is outside the general governance companies, is not in the register, i.e. that they will be paid by the respective, if they go to OTAs, budgets.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u60	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u61	We proceed with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Manolakos. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u62	We welcome the current strike and mobilisation of public workers and shipping as a response to the new round of stronger anti-government attack on the few rights of the left-wing workers, promoting the abolition of collective labour agreements, collective redundancies, questioning the minimum wage, attacking trade union rights, etc. They weren't alone today. Pension organizations, with students, students and people's committees were with them, and that's good. The Communist Party of Greece is with them and the continuation of their struggle for the success of the general strike on 8 December. In addition, their representatives in the committee yesterday, at the hearing of the bodies, described us that in the last five years jobs have been reduced by 3,700 000, i.e. a 40% reduction, which means that public services are shrinking and collapsed. This is what the simple world lives every day, who has to wait hours in the tail to serve or take years to receive a pension, which it paid for decades in contributions or experiences the collapse of public hospitals. That is why the demands of the strikers are to promote a programme of mass recruitment of permanent staff to meet all health, education, culture, self-government, insurance, labour, environment and all social services. Today the government comes with this bill in the form of an emergency, not for group recruitment of permanent staff who need and it is necessary to fill thousands of organic gaps, but is trying to deal with the problem of subsistence of services, recycling the same oligorithm of staff. So you call this "mobility" and present it as a progressive reconstruction with a purely voluntary nature, which contributes to productive reconstruction. Hypocrisy and mockery have no limits, because you know that - as far as newspapers are concerned - about the forthcoming validated memorandum, which will provide limits and continuous control of wage spending and the number of public workers, so as to keep up with the anti-Fraud budgetary targets. So we see the unpopular legislative determination of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and its ability to baptize fish meat in order to show ideological differentiation from the former New Democracy and PASOK. But you have the objective of disorientating and deceiving massively the people's strata. This seems and is confirmed by today's bill, since you maintain all the previous reactionary legislative framework for public administration and continue and build on the same bases, modernising certain structures, such as the digital establishment plan with Article 9 or the electronic procedure for issuing and handling public sector documents. But you are serving the same goal, the implementation of restructuring in public administration as a lever to develop the profitability of capitalists, to the detriment of the people's basic needs. That is why it is hostile to the people and it is not corrected by reactionary laws that you are using as a tool to promote overall the restructurings, which you have all agreed in the third memorandum and which appear also with the second evaluation, with a modernised operating structure that will further the objectives of the ruling order more effectively, such as improving tax evasion capacity, plundering people's income. That is why in the rapporteur's report you are using the elements of the Institute for Industrial Development, what savings will be made. Except that this study does not say what workers have lost from additional cuts in health, the merging of schools, the cracking of wages and pensions, the increase in contributions to medicines, insurance and so on. So are your restructuring to ensure cheaper labour power and new capital profitability fields. The urban state is the main tool of the economic sovereignty of capital. That is why, if you like, the criticism of the New Democracy is management. He's not hitting the heart. Of course, the government, and through the speech made by the Minister, is pragmatically following a different orientation for capitalist productive reconstruction in relation to the previous governments. The truth is that government policy, not only does not lead to partial recovery of the major losses of the populace during the crisis period, nor does it cover the tens of thousands of loopholes in schools, hospitals, health centers and elsewhere, but, on the contrary, it exacerbates the situation. For example, in this reactive article 4 for the purpose of transferring or posting an official to the applicant, you are putting an unacceptable and provocative condition and provided that the percentage of the industry's posts in the institution of origin belongs to at least 50%. What does that mean? It points out that the public for you will function fully if it has a 50% coverage. That's what you consider complete. In other words, new appointments are not going to be made. In essence, you are proclaiming a continuation of the ban on recruitment, serving the budgetary objective set by the quartet. You condemn the people to pay like ilody, but their modern needs strangled. However, in order to implement any movement or secondment of an official, you are subject to the paragraph. Article 4, issue of bodies in the light of an evaluation of their structures. But let's see. The assessment promoted by the Co-government, both in the structures, in the public services and in the civil service, does not aim to satisfy the needs of the people, provide social services or eliminate the causes that lead to the deterioration of these services. It is not intended to make workers better, nor to upgrade public social services, hospitals or only public free health, welfare, education. And it has nothing to do with the need for scientific support for workers so that they themselves and public services become better, modern and more qualitative in providing upgraded social services to the people and young people. It serves the reactionary reorganization of the urban state so that it becomes more effective in the services of capitalist development, more classic, more authoritarian than the labour movement and the struggles of the people. This is what the Euromonstrate parties mean for a smaller and more resident state. We are clear that we do not defend today's or yesterday's public sector and reject it as a whole in its direction and mode of operation, since it serves the market economy and competitiveness, the recovery of capitalist profitability. And that's why he's got a deep anti-grassy, reactionary character. Nor are we in favour of remula, rhyphetology, fascism and lazyness. There may be such things. It is not the workers' fault and they are not going to be solved with such legislation. In addition, all new organisations are reducing organic positions by legitimising and permanentising the shaped situation with subordinated services. With labour intensification and huge operating problems shrink services and objects are degraded by merging competences and organic units, as was done with schools. And many times there are mergers without a relevant object. The characteristic examples there are are too many. With Article 40 - the Minister of National Defence has left - you put tombstones in the factory of "Electronic Kymi", after months of false promises to the workers and the people of the region and following his political revaluation by the Governments of New Democracy and PASOK, since the factory has not been in command since 2013, while the workers have been unpaid for 15 months. And the minister who says they were paid is not right. And yesterday they didn't come to their invitation, because these people didn't even have to pay transport. That's why they didn't come to the board hearing. However, the plant has good technical equipment, important production capacities and has experienced and trained workforce. It is a military factory, the only one in Greece that has the ability to produce and supply the Armed Forces and Security Body with helmets, bulletproof vests, biological or chemical warfare costumes, variant costumes, dependencies etc. Who will benefit the closure? The large business groups, domestic and international. And to gold the pill and throw ashes into the workers' eyes by using and desperation after 15 months of payback, you say - and Mr. Vitsa confirmed it a moment ago - that they can be converted into any positions of other organisations or if there are recommended posts in services, if there are service needs. Powers you give, but not security. And you also extend it with the amendment to the other NCAs by stepping up dependence, if you like, and to what we have produced for national defence. The Minister argued that the bill also has a social dimension, citing Article 25. In fact, this article gives some percentages of multi-tenacs, micro-enterprises and recurrings. You know, we asked a trade unionist about this article and you know what he said? "Were there, they may improve a little, but recruitment contests are not done." Therefore, ‘empty shirt’ and without an impact. In fact, the rate of unemployment is the highest in the SMEs. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] You will ensure that the secondment or transfer procedure is voluntary. It's not true. You know that. You can't make fun of yourself. And yesterday the representative of civil servants said so. First you degrade and remove objects of the service councils with two employee representatives. And of course, you're putting in the interview that you, as a opposition, made fun of her as a clue to cutting people off. Of course, the new instruments you're building are fully controlled by the government. I mean the tripartite instrument in Article 7 and the Central Mobility Committee in Article 5. With all these responsibilities, redistributions of staff, dismantling and restructuring, i.e. even closure or privatisation, as you confess in a way. And that's why Article 5 is the heart of the bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It also appears that voluntary nature is, by name, also referred to in Article 9 for intra-company mobility, where there is no manifestation of interest, the transfer or secondment of the worker is permitted without the agreement of the worker, i.e. only with the consent of the institution of origin. So each minister will move wherever it takes for six months outside the county and a year within the county. We have asked you - it is not the Minister in the Chamber - but we will insist on the answer because we did not receive a reply. Did they start with this logic with ELGA, in order to mobilise geotechnics with abstention from estimates, why are they actually told to put their hand in the pocket on a plundered wage? Are they going to set up a strike mechanism against ELGA by detaching geotechnics from other regional units? Here and for the record the announcements of the ELGA and federations from the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u63	Mrs Manolakou, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u64	I'll be done. Therefore, behind the declarations of effective administration and productive reconstruction, the great tax evasion of the people and the cuts in social policy expenditure are hidden to follow the State aid of domestic groups and capitalist profitability in general. We are voting in favour of the principle. We call on the workers to continue in their fight for the abolition of such legislation, but also for more overall struggles to overthrow this barbaric policy, which only has to do with the people and fight for state administration that serves such a development in favour of the people and meets the people's needs and does not crush them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u65	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u66	This means changes in politics and the economy, that is, the people are really master of the wealth they produce and are not being fruited with today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, forty-two students and their students and three teachers, from the 2nd Mallion High School of Heraklion and the Experimental School of Malia Heraklion. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker from Potami, Mr Constantine Barriotas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Before entering the issue of mobility or non-mobility of the public, I wanted to make a comment on Cyprus, since I fear that there is a timely recurring an old Savvopoulou song of 1979 that says: "Our empty person Cyprus pays it." Without any attitude of opposition and without any intention to go into conflict, I would like to say that Greece must stand behind Cyprus and behind the efforts of the President of the Republic of Cyprus to keep the negotiation alive, unless we have changed the country's permanent foreign policy in relation to the Cyprus issue, which says that Cyprus, the Cypriots, the peoples of Cyprus, if you like, also decides to support Greece. If it has not changed, I think that all of us, and above all the government, must clearly express support for the efforts made by the official government of Cyprus to find a solution to the Cyprus problem. The rest may have to discuss them along the way with regard to the Cyprus issue, but I think that neither the crisis nor the problems nor any controversies and controversies within and outside the government must stand before this. So for mobility, or, as we have said, non-mobility, which is an issue which concerns Greece, our country and the government for many years now, I would like to say: First of all, the creation of a single transparent system for mobility between public services is desirable. It's something that needs to be done. If it develops properly and as should be, it is a serious tool to improve and operate the public, not only for it was a cover for gaps, but also for exploiting skills to improve the efficiency of services, for the transformation of services wherever and whenever necessary. It's a huge public reform. We all know that this historically during the post-population period the colonists and the old-fashioned communism did not allow it. They didn't allow it to develop as a tool. There was an inertia and an antiquated logic for the role of the civil servant and the civil servant, which today neither can deliver, in fact, has become a great barbaric in the way and the cost of operating the public. This type of immorality and swamp replaced him by the monumental mobility or, if you like, the introduction of the logic of mobility from the back door and with very wrong logic. In this way, it was able to identify the concept of public mobility with redundancies, since the introduction of the labour reserve concept in 2011, as well as subsequent laws substantially identified the need for mobility with the need to reduce the number of employees and redundancies. Rightly, then, most Greeks and especially the civil servants have identified the concept of mobility with redundancies. The responsibility of the previous governments for this very concept of mobility is very great, since, in the end, no fiscal adjustment has been achieved with the completely unfavourable moves they have chosen and institutional reform, since only those who have been made redundant or out of the labour reserve have been integrated into the concept of mobility. The only thing the previous governments have done in relation to this reform is to shoot their feet. We all remember that the current government and then opposition had a privileged field of political intervention, not only in the cleaners, who were camping here against being fired but also in many other sectors, which were really affected by the untimely functioning of this logic. To function - what I have said before - mobility, real mobility say experts, must be a structured incentive system, personalisation of wages, payroll, payroll, enrichment of skills, a continuous training process, a system of incentives to improve wages' employment relations, etc. This must be done in an area of labour security, transparency and dignity, I would say. It does not mean the break of redundancies, but there is also no mobility, without transparency and merit. Of course, to tell all of this in Greek reality, such tools are at risk and can be very easily transformed - and it has been done in the past - by human resources management tools, by becoming rheology and intervention tools, essentially manipulation tools, not only by employees, but also by their entire services and controls. It has been done in the past, and I fear that this bill, which has positive elements, is also done. The conception of the uniform way of publishing the gaps three times a year is in the right direction, as is the compulsory publication of gaps, as is the theoretical, unfortunately, completion of organograms, branches and evaluation. I have to say that it is a nice thing to hear from this government about evaluation, individual and collective, since in previous years no matter how much it was in line with this. Also, the digital platform, digital organograms, integration into a single platform, is a very important and very positive subject. The problem is, as we will see below, that it is sluggishly introduced into the knee and actually left to the bells of the presidential decrees, as has been left for many times in the past, and I am very afraid that the very large and very important completion of the digital document management system is now. I would remind you - in order not to mention this again - that it was legislated in 2011 under the terms of KHS and presidential decrees, it was again six months before Mr Katrugalos, under the nomination of a KHS that was never adopted, it is now being legislated again and while it should be a detailed bill, as I said yesterday, which includes and provides for what is needed to finally function and go to the new era that is necessary, in fact again, I am very afraid that it will be in the way it has been built up and the previous two times. Otherwise, the bill is a classic SYRIZA. But he says, but he does. It's about mobility, it's about immobilization. Ensuring the safety of work, essentially, but without transparency and dignity. The first is positive, isn't it? I'll see you around. But without transparency and without dignity, we are going back to the swamp of public service that we know so far and we all know it. It does not have time to put it into effect, and it may therefore be completely falsified and planned. It presupposes that a number of conditions have to be fulfilled in the public sector, such as new timetables, branches, work schedules, work schedules and the digital establishment plan referred to in Article 16, which we have been talking about before, when and when CSMs are issued and we move forward, which means that it will be applied when all of this is done. Most services, without timetables, without sanctions, will never get in or will be too late to enter. As I said before, although it speaks of mobility, it is, in fact, the non-movement of civil servants, which is guaranteed by the first article, since it speaks of a voluntary transfer procedure. In just Greek, if anyone doesn't want to leave his service, he won't leave. It's over and out. I wish he was overnumbered, I wish his service would close, I wish he didn't need it there and need it across the street. In Greek simply, if one taxi has twenty two economists and the opposite two - many times are housed in the same buildings - if there are no volunteers, one will remain with twenty-two and the other with two. It doesn't matter. Functionality is not introduced as a concept here. It may be in other ways that one intervenes. But this does not provide incentives, it does not provide for public reform, it only provides for the facilitation of officials who, if they do not want to leave, do not leave. And in the next day, it's that if they want to go, they're leaving again. In other words, civil servants may not be bad, but under certain resources that do not exist in this bill, if they do not want to leave their service. If they want to leave, all they have to do is find a place they want them to. The old service in which they are serving has no right to stop them, except for specific marginal cases relating to TAs, which are rightly restricted. For everyone else there is no one. He may be valuable, he may be the only one who knows a job, his service may need it, he doesn't matter. If the three of the three committees in the new reception service are friends, they will go to the new reception service and even without any criteria, and if they have their friends where they have to, possibly overcoming people who may have more qualifications. Because transparency and dignity do not exist. There is no molecule system, no specific measurable evaluation method is provided that says "between the two I will take alpha, because it has more qualifications than beta". Consideration of qualifications is an old public story. SYRIZA didn't invent it. All bills and all the forecasts of post notices that they wanted to facilitate the recruitment of diaries are exactly formulated, vividly in the same way. They mention a downhill without a ladder, an evaluation scale, and an interview from the back, in which there is also no provision for how it is done. I said the last day before, and the last executive recruitment company to private companies in Greece and abroad can provide anyone interested, implement specific qualifications assessment tools, either in oral interviews or in biographics. Anyone who wants to make an evaluation framework can make it easy to buy it literally with five drachmas from the private sector and implements it. He doesn't even have to have someone break his head to create it. No one wants to do that either. A characteristic of how we imagine how the'system' will work is that there is no objection procedure. No one has the right to object to the outcome of his judgment. He's got no place to go. Only in the courts, I imagine, and this will also create an interesting series of judicial actions pending. A little the same logic is introduced by the Central Evaluation Committee, which is supposed to assess, which will set the demands in order. In fact, I heard the unprecedented 'does not have any specific way of assessing criteria or restrictions'. I heard yesterday and very interestingly because, because he says, he is an evaluation committee above suspicion - I do not remember the wording yesterday - and independent of the government machine, there is no need for criteria. That's interesting. In other words, the committees of excellence, which decide beyond criteria, are an interesting introduction, we can discuss it, but it does not apply to our democracy. In our democracy, at least in theory, rules apply. If the committee is not independent, for the simple reason that it provides for two members of GDP, one of the Legal Council of State and four appointed by the relevant Minister, that is to say, chosen by officials, who are party officials in the Greek State, they have always been and still are. So the framework is very specific. Only one comment on the second chapter, which is also typical SYRIZA. We made half the law three months ago, we forgot about the other half, and we bring him back late. We have seen other examples of a verdict of legislating in this Parliament lately. A characteristic example was this process, the "dyssiness" of converting cleaners' seats to hospitals from private-law positions to positions such as they are today. It took seven or eight amendments to create a framework that is not unconstitutional, to be operational. Every three and a little while the hermes were stuck, the cleaners were left unpaid, they couldn't get permission, because someone had a very nice idea, he threw it as a grenade, and then we packed the fragments. Or something like that happens here. The big problem here is that - and I think it is not very random - is, in fact, banned, the possibility of recruiting private sector officials to the public sector. Because anyone who makes the mistake of going to public positions under these conditions is also condemned to three years of unemployment. Because, obviously, he won't be able to work in a related profession. No qualified person generally works in the private sector. If he leaves a post in the state, he'll be looking for a similar position. This in its universality is problematic. For some public positions there may be a need, but as a universal commitment I think it simply excludes workers, experienced private sector workers from positions in the public sector, which is bad for the public, it is not bad for the private sector at the present time. For the article on document management I have already said that it is a very important issue, which should be much more detailed, much more compulsory. It has the positive effect that it has deadlines, it has expiry dates of the option not to apply. We're going to vote for this. In my opinion, 31 December 2018 is very far away, but in particular it is the way it is implemented. It would also very much like a debate - and I have many reservations - on the way in which it goes into the development of a new single platform for the whole of the public. It sounds like a huge bizarre that someone will do without going through the House, because a presidential decree is provided to make this type of setup, and a market of software and development and technical and support, which cannot be done without the knowledge of the House. This article - I repeat, and I close with it - needs to be drafted and come to Parliament with detail and clarity. It's very important. It is a truly important reform that at some point must finally be completed properly, because, if it is not done properly, we will always find it in front of us, as we have found too many IT jobs that, because they were done 'works', have never been able to operate in the public sector. For fish scientists, I think we've closed this whole thing down. I saw the literary improvement. The amendments will allow me to look forward to tomorrow, since we need to look at them a little further. The bill is actually a blessing, and I said why. There is no road map and implementation times. I'm not even sure the government really wants to apply this thing. I am afraid that even if it comes to be implemented at some point, the insurance margins that turn it into another bill that allows "clientism" and party rule in public have been introduced instead of fighting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Given that Mr Karras asked me to speak tomorrow, we are closing with the special speakers with Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos and then the procedure will be as follows: In the order where colleagues have asked for the floor, Mr Theocharopoulos will speak, three colleagues will follow, Mr Papaliou, Voridis and Mr Gregos, then Mr Javarras. Then three other colleagues will speak, Mr Koutsoukos, Mr Delis and Mr Theocharis. Because Mr. Lappas has asked for the floor first, he will be called or Mr. Lappas will speak. Three colleagues will follow and it will certainly be Mr Lappas if he does not come before us. Mr. Amyras will speak tomorrow. The other two Parliamentary representatives, if they wish to speak tonight, will inform the Bureau of the fact that we can build the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u70	What time are we going tonight?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u71	We'll go by 12 o'clock. We've made a calculation based on how many people have been registered. A total of today and tomorrow's debate of the bill will take about nine hours. If we go today by midnight, tomorrow is five hours, so since the bill will start at noon, about five o'clock in the afternoon, we'll be closed. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I'm still thinking about this. I was a little kid. I heard there was a dispute with a civil servant who didn't have the approval of his boss or a citizen who was a friend with his boss and said, "I'll send you to Suffly." We've lived this for many decades. I feel like I'm the only one who remembers this, like everyone who talks in this Chamber has come from virginity. I am referring to the two major parties that have ruled the country for many decades. "I'll send you to Soufly," "I'll send you to the Dumotich." The teacher, the doctor, the nurse, the tax collector. Fear and terror. They put bleachers and bonded men, ministers, etc. That was the reality and - I'm sorry to say - it was also fresh, recent reality. Let's go to today. First of all, I have listened very respectfully to the Minister saying: "I'm sorry, guys. We know that the public administration suffers, that it is the greatest wound of Greek society." It is perhaps the most negative brake on the development of the country, because it has been structured - I am sorry to say it - with customer relations and with purely party criteria. No one disputes that, and I think no one should forget it. That's why a little self-criticism to those who come and speak here - and well they make their criticism - wouldn't hurt. Let's go to that now. At some point Anastasios Peponnes dared to take the first step, with many windows, for ASEP. No one is appointed by a minister or friend or I don't know who else. He paid for it dearly. A very competent and honest politician was not elected in the next parliamentary elections. Why am I saying that? I think this ministry does well and it's the first of its ranks, because it's a Ministry of Emporium for those who really want to do something. Carefully I've looked one by one of the articles in the bill. I would like to make the following comments: Yeah, I'm glad there's a volunteer character. Even in the worst case, I heard it mentioned by Mrs Manolakou, in Article 9, I think that, for the first time, the agency - but for the first time, it is a small percentage - will be able to move even without the will, because there may not be any real desire for someone to go to work at another point. Well he does and gives the right, I would just have liked this to have been shielded more with merit, so that one employee can move at least for six months, if he is a province, and one year, if he is close - even if he does not want it. Not with violence. I'm the one I suggested and I'm very careful. As it motivates border regions, it also motivates a simple move. That's not a bad thing. And the motives may be so powerful that some employees who don't need in a service themselves to want to go to the next. I think it's something that can be corrected. I also want to see positively the part that says 80% in the telephone centres or in information centres being people with disabilities, blind. It's good. I have heard that the amendments raise the percentages in both the three-tiers and the multi-tiers. And that's good and good. We need to see it with love. But I want to concentrate on three four articles - it is not one, but it is three, four articles - which are historical to me. Here I see Article 27: ‘Address for Public Administration Archives. The Ministry of Administrative Reform is recommended as a Public Administration Archives Directorate falling under the Directorate-General for Reform Policy and Electronic Governance, etc. It is a conquest for over twenty-five years in the small countries of Northern Europe, Denmark, the Netherlands. I'm in a position to know. What does that mean? Those who have dealt with this are perhaps the biggest blow, the biggest mistake in bureaucracy. But I was impressed by Article 38, where with great respect I saw special scientific staff in the Information Society. He says how these kids will be hired for three years. They're usually youths. I think that's a step forward too. It's a historic step, and we have to see it. I arrive in Article 24, which, for me, is a station. I mean it, and I mean it. Electronic document management system. Ageing twenty-five years in the countries of Northern Europe. A special signature that certifies the Greek State is certified by the RES, a authority which enables bureaucracy to be struck in its hearts. It is also a conquest of over ten, fifteen years, not as much as the rest, in almost all the countries of the European Union. And he's coming late. I don't want to scratch wounds. Some would rule the country for forty years. I'm not saying forty, I'm not saying thirty. Ten years ago, 15, though? Weren't we listening? Didn't we hear what was going on around us? We were going with the pearl? It is not just that we save 400 million every year - and it is a study that the government has not done so - and while there has been legislation since 2001 - I say that some in here feel that they have come out of virginity - it could have saved the Greek public over 6 billion. And maybe it's a little too little. I think it is a strong step forward, as well as the records in the administration, which was missing. This is a 40-year-old conquest in all the countries of the European Union and we still see, if you look at a few reports that televisions are right and well doing and criticising, boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo. How much more? I believe the Minister raises a very heavy burden. Her start is this. That's my opinion. And he needs very strong nerves and great will, because he has to move on. We didn't say everything was done. We didn't say this bill would heal a big wound. And we all know that. Compartmental criteria. It was the spoil of the governments. It has to stop. I have listened with respect to criticisms and some of them - why not admit it? - Maybe they're right. In our hand, this effort is not to degenerate, to go in the right direction, to end the party rule, to enter through the ASP and this bill provides for it. I see it positive. No one triumphs. Nor did I hear the same Minister triumphantly. He's got a base on what he wants. One more thing. I have seen all the amendments. I was present when the agencies came. With other people I agreed, with others I didn't. Well, I was present, and I saw it all close. I saw a respect for the opposite opinion. And I want to thank her very much. I was one of those who criticized a particular article. I saw it modified in the right way. I think it satisfies the people who have protested, as I believe all the other amendments that have been made. I will not need any more time, Mr President. I would like to say, however, because I have a personal, a little bit, issue that was created in this bill: with the officials of this House, I have absolutely nothing. I respect them absolutely. I respect the last employee. And sin is not about any civil servant in this House. It concerns parties and, unfortunately, all parties. I say this because I do not want any falsification of what I have actually said within the committee. Indeed, the KKE's respected colleague had spoken before me. In fact, hospitals have no staff, public funds are looted, taxes themselves. I have the Minutes here in front of me and I read to you what I said yesterday: 'I do not hesitate to say that one of these services that have surpluses is the Greek Parliament, where the staff are surpluses'. I don't know if what I said is a crime or something terrible and terrible. I think I didn't say anything terrible. I said self-evident. And I'm telling you here, because I never speak without evidence: France, which has 577 Members, has only a thousand officials in its parliament. I'm not talking about the Netherlands or Belgium. Belgium has only six hundred employees, Ireland four hundred fifty. In our country there are a thousand nine hundred ninety-three. France has five times as large a population and if you see this table, you will see that it is indeed a surplus of staff. It's not the staff of this House. And I say again, with great respect, that I am talking about the staff of this House and I have nothing with any officials in this House, but I do not think I should be censored for something that goes unequivocally. And something below. I say this because the subject has been raised, and I hear that the officials of this House will come, the president, the club will resign me. Even in the House they were found, I said. You know that there were seven redundancies, not only of permanent employees, but also of posters, etc., because they had fake degrees, etc. It's not a crime. At the hospital where I was working, I've seen these and I've seen them even worse with doctors. Where's the ban? I'm saying that, I don't want any misunderstandings. I would also like to say - and I am finishing - that in all events that have taken place for the officials of this House I am one of the Members who has respected them and who have come with great respect. I have been a worker's representative for many years in the country's largest public hospital, in the Evangelism. I didn't imply any lazy people, because I've learned to speak in public. There's been a noise, I'm telling you. They did, he says, want to come with the precinct to find me. That is what I said, and I would ask you with a very good intention to find the Minutes, to see exactly what happened. A thousand thanks. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u73	Of course, when we call on the institutions, it is a good thing for the Minister to adopt their views as well. Madam Minister, because I am a sick self-government, please very much see the observations of the CEDEFOP by tomorrow. You didn't accept. And many of the things I have seen, like other colleagues, have come out of practical application. It's not a matter of cost, it's a matter that's come out of their experience. Look at the CEDEFOP opinions and its conference and from what I have seen you are invited to speak. Now we're starting with Mr. Theocharopoulos. Then - I say it to get notified and come, others are here, others are not - Mr. Papalis, Mr. Vorides, Mr. Gregos, Mr. Javaras - Mr. Koutsoukos, Mr. Delis and Mr. Theocharis. Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u74	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again the government has chosen, in its best interests, to bring a bill to the vote in accordance with the urgency procedure, and the consultation has been concluded for a long time and could have come much sooner. The debate is taking place at a time when, among other things, there are serious shortages of staff in key sectors of the public sector, particularly in the area of health, education, insurance and social services, and, as I will say and then, there is a risk of acquired labour rights. It is true that the public does not have a problem with a small or large public sector, the problem is an effective public sector, which we do not have. In this context too, a mobility system should lead to an effective public sector, because the problem - and it has been said before - is not the small one, nor the large public sector. The problem is that other services may be deficient, most services at the moment have shortcomings and of course there may be more people. So this bill is being discussed in an environment, in a more general context. I would say that we are living in the constellation of mobility in a broader context. Mobility in labour negotiations. Labour relations are in a terrible situation and it is not just the rates of unemployment, which continue and are very high, and let us not go into a logic - in your government I mean - with statistical alchemys. They're high, they're on unacceptable high levels. Sad first of our country in youth unemployment, deregulation of labour relations as a whole. That's what's happening today. Underrepresented forms of employment dominate and flexible forms of employment. The greatest problem, therefore, in this context is the overall weakening of the protection of workers, the risk of all European gains in labour matters. We, the Democratic Alliance, have made it clear that we are against lifting the restriction of collective redundancies in a logic which will have no effect on our country. Therefore, to reject your Government effectively in negotiating this absurd demand of some lenders, a requirement that had been effectively counterbalanced in previous years. Of course, I hope that you do not allow other demands to be put back to the negotiating table, such as the lock out, the recompense of employers. Mobility, however, is also on many other issues, on the issue of public debt to which you have signed a decision in the 2016 Eurogroup, which goes back, that is the reality, from the 2012 Eurogroup. That's the reality. And of course we need to restructure the public debt. At the same time, however, we need a healthy productive model in our country, because if both are not done at the same time, if there is no sound productive model, we will quickly get back to the same point. Mobility also exists in the question of the participation of the International Monetary Fund. Another thing you wanted a while ago, another thing you want today in this particular matter. What you need to achieve in the negotiations is the appropriate mix in the relationship, namely to reject the absurd requirements in relation to the work of the International Monetary Fund, but on the question of debt to take advantage of its positions. This mixture must be the best and not the worst. The mini Eurogroup was to be held without Greece on Friday on the issue of public debt. As we have learned, the Minister for Finance has learned in a question that it will not be done at the end of the day. Not only would it be without Greece, but Mr. Chakalotos didn't even know it was changing and it wouldn't happen. Not even that briefing was made by the Minister of Finance at that time. Of course, on all international issues, we have a mobility. All of it! From relations with Turkey, relations with Albania - and here I would like to be very careful - with the Turkish President's unacceptable statements on many issues - I do not want to expand - and, of course, with the attempt to resolve the Cyprus issue or, better, with the attempt to lift a new deadlock. Here we support the efforts of the Cypriot President, Nikos Anastasiades, we really support them and I want to believe that our country's position remains stable that Cyprus decides and Greece supports them. I will not go into anything else because it is a matter, like all these issues, which require national understanding and a national line of exit from the crisis, because otherwise we will be constantly in a vicious circle of recession and unemployment. Unfortunately, the government chooses introvertibility on these issues and continues to accuse the opposition several times with the following permanent abomination: "Yes, but you forget, which you have done...." Look, it's been almost two years since the SYRIZA - ANEL government took over. If you think this argument goes on to the Greek women and the Greeks who are listening, go on to say it. But, at the moment, many things are getting worse for you, the pathogens of the past are expanding, they are reproduced and new ones are being created. And that is what you should respond effectively. In this context, then, critical and many dangerous developments on many issues are coming today and we are talking about voting on the legislation on mobility in public administration and local government. I cannot, therefore, once again welcome the Government and SYRIZA to the world of mobility. You are now in the position of the Minister, so you do not have the responsibilities of the previous minister on the subject and the administrative reform, but I would like to welcome the Government and SYRIZA to the world of mobility. Why am I saying that? Because you fought for mobility. In 2012-2013 you fought a process that did not result in any dismissal at the time and had these features on many issues. So you fought her, because you were against that logic. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You were across the street. You probably don't remember well when you took the occupancy, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u75	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u76	Easy. You'll talk and you'll all answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u77	You don't remember when you took the conquests at the time. Let me remind you. Why are you upset? You occupied local authorities at the time and did not accept that mobility is necessary. Let me tell you something else, though. Voluntary mobility is indeed useful. But tell me, at the same time as voluntary mobility, how you solve...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u78	Mr. Theoharopoulos, I apologise, for thirty seconds I will interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u79	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, nineteen students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Elementary School of Naples Lassithi. Crete today has its honour. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u81	At the same time, I would like to ask you: When a service that needs more than three people and another service has thirty people, who do not need it and want everyone to be in that service, how will you solve the problem of rational management of human resources in the context of this mobility that you are presenting today? You won't solve it. It's obvious. Because that is what a system needs that will have the assessment, it will have the dignity, it will also have the confidence of civil servants to the state in this process. So we also need institutional areas and we really need a reform here. That's not reform. No one believes that this is a reform. Because, indeed, you are right, public administration reform is needed to achieve the country's productive reconstruction. But that is not a reform. So you need an overall reform of public administration, which you would need and you should break eggs - because you have to break eggs, if you want to make an omelette - so that you can really change the context. Mobility, therefore, ensures that we can have in all services an appropriate number of people. We're not talking about redundancies. I want this to be clear, because with such an unemployment rate, any such debate will have to stop. The government therefore presents the draft law as an innovation. Although the objections raised may be correct, it is not only a matter of being an innovation, but also of ensuring the principles which it invokes and of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the arrangements. Developments in the field of mobility have been observed in recent years, a period that coincides with the outbreak of the financial crisis. The fact is that the problems of better government staffing are becoming even bigger in the period of the economic crisis. The transition to the new reality is characterised by a strong mobility of employees, and this could only cause frictions. It is important, however, that changes take place properly in order to produce the desired results. Moreover, it is no accident that pan-European reflection on these issues, with the new skills that public sectors in European countries need, is the crucial importance of quantitative and qualitative evaluation. But both the law on the national register and the resolution do not seem to respond to these challenges and certainly no one feels optimistic about their implementation. It is not a goal, I imagine, to vote on things that are not followed and then to be accused as a country for that reason. With regard to the single mobility system, the Government considers that it will contribute to the reconstruction of public administration and will contribute to the reconstruction of the country. And we're with you. Let us accept that they are intent to be honest. But it is already from the first articles that all this is self-determined. I don't have to tell you any more about this. The rapporteur for the Democratic Independence has already told you. In addition, two conditions are laid down: the existence of up-to-date organisations in digital form and the establishment of job schedules in order to ensure that the staff member is transferred to an empty organic position. They are good conditions, but we all know that they will be too late. We also know that the conditions should have already been fulfilled, that there should be infrastructure, as the infrastructure was lacking, and from the bill for the National Executives' Register, which, while referring to assessments, targets and observation, did not refer to the necessary infrastructure. How, then, will the change you invoke be made? Under the basic conditions that do not exist and, if they exist, will it take a long time to implement? I have heard about the Central Mobility Committee of seven people and I have heard you say 'but well, do you not trust the public administration with four people of secretaries and directors, in relation to the three of the independent authorities?' Can I reverse the question? You don't trust the independent authorities? Do you trust them? Because at the National Broadcasting Council we have spent months persuading you and imposed the national agreement on the Democratic Compact, and both SYRIZA and the New Democracy came to an end. So why do you not increase the majority of the members from the independent authorities? Do not be four secretaries and directors, to be four by the independent authorities. Why don't you do it to remove any reservation at this time? So you should trust the independent authorities, which I think we need in this context. Questions are also available for the evaluation of candidates, where an interview is planned. As the Parliamentary Scientific Service observes, the oral interview must be conducted under conditions which ensure transparency on the one hand and, on the other hand, the possibility of judicial review of the administrative crisis. However, the relevant provisions do not provide for such safeguards. The practical choice, as described, is obviously not enough, while it has not been clarified what will be the final significance of the interview in terms of formal and practical qualifications. In the third chapter I don't have to say much, it's a porpoise pot. It has already been analysed by the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration. In addition, modern public administration should be able to have another logic in these matters, such as, for example, for appointing documents, because a number of issues have been raised, such as false diplomas in the previous period, and in order to deal with this, full control of supporting documents, at an appropriate time and a public who can safely do this. Finally, to conclude, I would like to tell you that the public administration is really at a critical crossroads. A transition is taking place to a new reality, characterised by strong employee mobility and a rapid adaptation to changing conditions. The key word for the success of these programmes is, therefore, integrated planning, with harmonious coexistence in the public and private sectors. We support this harmonious coexistence, not conflict, whether in favour of the private or public sector. That's the only way to get us out of the crisis. However, we believe that, on the basis of this bill too, you do not believe mobility, which is necessary, and you do not promote a system, a real reform, in this context, which will give solutions and create an effective public sector, which the place needs, in order to move the economy and of course there is productive reconstruction in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u82	We are starting with colleagues, as we have said. Mr. Papaliou has the floor, and then Mr. Vorides. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pathogens of Greek public administration are well known. Its system is centralized, with strong government, party domination and atrophy of the administrative dimension and leadership. In addition, in recent years, in the years of the memoranda, an abusive public policy has been added, both in terms of structures and numbers - subsecution - and in the field of its institutional powers. Increasingly, any rationalization exists and the regulatory capacity of the administration. The result of this - and of irrationalism and subsistence - is the operational deterioration of the public sector as a guarantor of legality and of public interest. As a result of all this, administrative closure and bureaucratic paralysis, it is the loss of citizens' confidence in public administration, as an institution, but also in its institutions, which exacerbates the legalisation crisis that plagues its functioning. Acknowledging the need for a radical reorganisation of public administration, the Government promoted, among other things, its resolution of No.4369/2016 on the National Register of Officials of Public Administration, Grade Structure, Evaluation Systems, etc. and adds this legislative initiative to it. All are steps to reorganise, reform, reconstruct the administrative system in this regard, transformed organisationally in an integrated, long-term, practicable and reliable manner, to act as a lever for the country's development and progress. In the context of the reorganisation of public administration, the mobility of employees is a crucial and modern tool for the redistribution of staff on the basis of the actual needs. At the same time, mobility is of particular importance to each employee, since it provides him with increased opportunities to exploit his formal and effective skills, to enrich his work experience and thus to improve the prospects for his development. Mobility thus contributes substantially to the efficiency of public administration, allows the best management of human resources and enables officials to play an active role in shaping their careers. Mobility can therefore be applied to form a stable environment, which will provide credibility to the citizen and will inspire confidence and dedication to the worker. The single mobility system has as its main features the introduction of uniform, uniform rules for all civil servants, a harmonious combination of the fulfilment of the service needs with the staff member's right to mobility for the development of his or her personality and qualifications. Two conditions are laid down for the participation of operators in the single mobility system. The existence of updated organisational charts in digital format and the establishment of position profiles in order to ensure that the staff member is transferred to a vacant organic position for which he has the standard and substantially qualified qualifications, as resulting from the positioning identity. In other words, the institutional framework is unified and criteria are established to assess the needs of staff and guarantees of transparency and objectivity. The main innovations of the proposed system are, firstly, the purely voluntary nature of mobility and, in particular, the possibility for each employee to have access to all posts to be covered on the basis of uniform rules concerning terms, conditions and procedures. Only exceptionally and where there is evidence of serious and urgent service needs, the movement shall be carried out as a secondment for up to one year, with the possibility of extending up to three months, at the initiative of the service and at the consent of the staff member for whom the staff member has the formal and substantive qualifications required, without having to have a vacant organic position. Second basic innovation to make the posts public through their online post. Additional elements that radically differentiate this draft law, the present system from the mainstream forms of mobility, is the procedure for the selection of migrants to be carried out entirely by the accepting agency and the established binding deadlines for the completion of mobility procedures. There are specific arrangements, grading incentives, which are introduced for the transfer or transfer to remote border services, as well as mountain and island areas. The increased criteria are necessary to serve these areas, because it is known that the services in these areas remain uncovered. They should be added to the rating motives and others. Second important chapter of the bill is the obligations and prohibitions for persons taking responsibility for the bodies of central administration and the general public sector, in order to ensure good governance in public administration, by strengthening integrity and impartiality, by identifying, preventing and treating cases of conflict of interest. I really do not understand the negative position of the opposition parties or some of them, for a country in which the conflict with great private interests and corruption at all levels are a common place. Finally, it is important to regulate the procedure for the adoption and movement of administrative acts and other documents in the public sector exclusively through information and communication technologies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, only the real reorganisation and rebuilding of public administration can make it a friendly, true servant of the citizen, who will stand alongside him and not across him and transform it into an organisational and functional lever of development and progress. One final comment. A common denominator of the objections and objections made in terms of counter-population is that there will be a failure to implement this bill when it becomes law. I have the feeling that this is a self-esteeming prophecy and expectation. That is why I believe that this bill, when it becomes the law of the state, will be implemented. I am sure that the relevant Ministry will 'run it', because it is a precondition not without the country's productive reconstruction and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u84	Mr. Mavroudis Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all to resolve this issue of anxiety as to whether or not this bill is to be implemented, the Minister admitted, we do not have to say that this is something that will require a considerable period of time in order to achieve its implementation. As long as it takes a considerable time, it is a given that Census is contrary to this bill, you have no time, you will have fallen by the government, it is clear that this bill will not be implemented, and so I think we will not be fighting for these matters again. It will not be implemented and I will say our objection, because it will not be implemented. Because, in fact, the basic thing, which is supposed to serve - and here we all agree in theory - mobility is the needs of the service. It is the need to fill gaps in the service. I want to set a concrete example right away. I read it yesterday, I don't know if it's accurate, I say it with one reservation. I'm telling you what I read. I hear in Kasso there are twenty-two empty organic positions. Right now, they're serving zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u86	One.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u87	But he says he's one and he's gone. So I say: How will this be covered? Anyone want to go to Kasso? As much as you look, you won't find anyone who wants to go to Kasso. What about this particular matter? How will it be covered? What's the prediction? I heard the motives. But the motives exist now, you don't institutionalize them and they don't work. So how will this matter be covered? We shut it down in Kasso? It's not just. There are too many of these cases. So, if you do not establish a compulsory mobility mechanism, then it is actually a gift of bread, plus that of additional issues, which we have already mentioned on the part of the municipalities. You have a municipality, which has three. Based on your 65% limit, he falls under the category. What are you gonna do? Will you let each one of you go? Is he going to leave? He's leaving. What are you gonna do? How will this work? Do you want this town to stay with two? So here's how it's shaped, what kind of modernising public administration is that? How exactly does the public administration modernise? How do you respond to what you're supposed to be the main one, which should make a bill on mobility? What's very simple? Take from where they're left over with an evaluation and take them where they don't exist. That is mobility, and that is why this institution exists. We have now heard the Minister say that compulsory mobility is self-regulatory. Really? So all private workers are living in a horrific autocracy regime, which workers must not have in the public sector, because they must be part of another regime. I heard the second one, how - he says - there will be a reform without the cooperation of the parties involved? Have you not heard that the biggest reforms presuppose conflicts of interest, otherwise there are no reforms? Conflicts of interest have been reformed, because they are precisely packed and trapped in various interests, they can be the interests of workers poorly understood, they can be interests privately misguided, they can be interests of professional groups poorly understood, which conflict with the public interest. That's where the reform is needed. Where does the reform need? So how will this be done? Both objections, in order not to go ahead with what is necessary, that is, compulsory mobility, in fact, are wasteful. One is abstract ideological, it says - authoritarian and the other is that it cannot - he says - be implemented without cooperation. Obviously it can be implemented. Of course it can be implemented. Alas, if consents had to be built. That's how nothing goes. So I'm coming to the next one now. What are you doing? You're saying we want to object it. There has been a very good criticism here by the rapporteur of the New Democracy. I do not need to go any further. How are you doing so objectively, when you put a Mobility Committee in which you actually make it the majority of them have been placed with the Ministerial Decision and do not objectively make it, for example by putting an independent authority in place, for example? Why are you doing this? I'll go to the next one. That's to decide the positions. Now let's go to who they are, and they're coming to the hosting body. That is what the three-member committee says - you corrected an issue from what I saw, for cases where this tripartite shape cannot be formed, but I have still not been able to see Legislative in this particular matter - but which, in fact, is what criteria it applies? He's got some directions. Yes, I agree, but they are obviously assessed in a subjective way. Secondly, it is subjectively evaluated and puts an interview between the three. What kind of interview is this? So when we say: 'This is how you are thinking about dealing with rhetoric? So you're thinking of dealing with the party state and the upcoming subjectivity, which has party traits?' When we say that it's actually a counter-reformation, what do you answer? I have not heard an answer to that. I repeat this question, and do you give us any answers: why do you not put a majority of the AACC? Can we hear an answer to that? Why don't you put a majority of the AACC, so that we can finish this criticism? Secondly, why do you not have objective criteria for molecules? Why don't you put a way to really be objective? It's two very simple things. I come to another - major reform, too, to congratulate you very much on this success - that you are reducing the percentages of luxuries appointed. That's very important. Bravo! From 20% to 15%. If you have not understood this, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that Greece has no demographic problem and we are now going to measures, which we have adopted, in order to deal with the inheritability - and this was the measure - we are now coming to curtail them. Well, be clear, along with everything we gather, which we are going to change on the first day we are going to be in power, is of course also a reduction in this percentage, for which also, Mr Lappa, I have not heard the slightest explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u88	You'll hear it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u89	I have not heard from the committee that we are discussing this at all. What has happened all of a sudden and must be reduced by the percentage of luxuries? What for? I want a clarification, if I may, Mr President. You've said that, but I may have missed myself. Does the debate become uniform for articles and, in principle, for articles? So we don't have another list tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u90	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u91	Oh, no. Nor will there be a new suggestion from the rapporteurs. He will continue to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u92	Depending on how the debate goes, there can be a dentistry of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u93	All right, then, let me turn to two amendments that we have tabled. It's late, I admit it, but it's not our responsibility. Because of the urgency, and in that sense, there was no time to be tabled in good time. I'll say two things very quickly. In particular, the seven-year service in the private sector is not recognised by the general public, the seven-year service in the private sector, or up to seven years, in fact, before service in the private sector. Is there any explanation for that? Of all the civil servants we removed the judges. The issue is constantly being raised and the Justice Ministers are constantly saying 'we'll see'. All right, can we see it today and accept the amendment? It's time to see it. You can accept this amendment, otherwise you can explain why there is this, only for judicial officers, an unfavourable provision. Secondly, can you explain to us another matter concerning judicial officers? This is the second amendment we have tabled. In particular, for judicial officers, the way in which directors, directors-general and divisions are chosen is only through the boards of directors, without any meritless procedure, without any procedure for mobilisation. Can we have an explanation, because what is being applied everywhere is not particularly to the judicial officers? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u94	That's what you're closing up with, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u95	I'm closing up, saying this. Mr. Tsipras is starting to think, I think, mature. Because I heard yesterday that he was thinking about the possibility of elections. Good thinking, encouraging him. But, until then, he must answer us: How did he escape for sixteen years from saying that SYRIZA has been in his property and that he should pay the corresponding taxes? This slight negligence the morally advantageous Left can explain it to us among all the rest?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u96	We continue with Mr Antonio Gregos from the Golden Dawn. Then Mr. Javarras will speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. The previous speaker spoke of a citizen's service. In a sense, you and we in here - yes, you do - civil servants must be. Servants, I wouldn't say. At least for you the word "weak" would be used. Whether or not this bill will be implemented is not a matter of either SYRIZA or New Democracy. This is the issue of loan sharks, from which you get clear commands for each step of yours. It was heard that the public body was the great patient. Of course it is. But that is why the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK are responsible, and the current government, which is closely following the tactics of the client-state, the ruptured state, the stepping-up of the "logues", extortion for election purposes and all these practices that gigantics of such a public sector, which merited in a few cases. And when there was, however, he was the victim of the parties of the public administration in question. We all know very well what was happening in the public sector, but in a public sector, where there are worthy and workers of all categories - HR, HR, HR - who are many times also victims of the chosen administrations in all sectors. This is mainly the case in the OTAs. Of course, that is why we are still living in the era of the resurgence of the files. It is mainly the ministers and mayors, unfortunately, that Greece has become the mayor of Kamine and Bhutari - and, downwards, the directors-general, the Secretary-General, the heads and the others. It is much less the fault of an employee in a JEP or in a social policy agency, who is obliged to serve out-of-date foreigners, of all the above. The selection process of heads and directors is also known, how the service councils operate, how the crises are made and all of them: with purely party criteria. Transparency, equality, merit, foreign words often, but all of you invoke at once. At the same time as we are talking about growth and investment, anyone who dares to come from abroad and try to do so is going out of the way when they are in front of the monster of bureaucracy. The Minister spoke about saving 800m euros with cutting red tape. But we do not understand exactly how that will be done. Are the lists not being exploited by those who have known each other to be involved - have they forgotten - and will they? Victims of this state of affairs, citizens, civil servants, and finally the state itself. Illegality and irresponsibility, lack of political will, political cost. All this and much more is a great brake, in a system that continues to operate at a pace of last century. It is a bill that, although it has positive elements, will help to solve the problems. Of course, another carcinoma is one of the false trade unionists who allegedly represent workers - see ADD, etc. - and where they went to work only the day they were sworn, usually. They have the stubborn nerve to catch us in their mouths too. It is a positive legislative improvement on permits for officials who are third-party or multi-texts, as well as for single-parents. Of course, the multitude and the threeteen, Minister, you're hurting them elsewhere. The reform of the state and of the administration is an objective that has now been announced by the governments concerned, but is never completed and, in any case, is not being carried out. Administration remains always a mechanism of slow-moving, bureaucratic, incapable of working on public policies and carrying out results with flexibility and with possibilities that a public sector can have. Any service in Greece today is now considered to be subordinated and cannot meet the expectations of both the citizen and any businessman. Unrestricted powers shall be conferred on the administrative bodies appointed by the respective government, the service councils and the subordinate bodies of the government responsible for the appointment of the officials of the LAG to move arbitrary and compulsory staff to complete system gaps. Let us not forget that the draft law on mobility is geared to the Memorandumary Cheques. No matter what specific provisions it contains, it is not of a decisive nature, but merely limited to making a surface contribution to some specific issues. Greek citizens demand a public sector that will be functional, fair and effective, a public sector that stands up to the problems of their everyday lives. We have no confidence in this government, which has so far not given any such samples, which even workers themselves denounce in the public sector. Of course, the solutions will not be given by the lenders - loan sharks, but an honest and powerful governance of a genuinely national state, that state which is the embassy of the Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u98	Thank you too, Mr Grego, and for the brief. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Javarras, has the floor, and I wish his new parliamentary duties well. Here you go, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u99	Mr President, thank you and thank you in particular for your wishes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u100	I would ask, although I acknowledge the difficult one, that the Minister has neither a Deputy nor a Deputy Secretary-General and is, with the hours in the Chamber, notified to come to the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u101	The Minister should not really listen to what I have to say in mind, because they do not concern her, in the sense that she is not the one who has chosen and shaped the content of the legislative initiative that is now being discussed in this House. But I believe that he should be interested, because this is the Minister who will be called upon to implement this law, to protect public administration from the intrinsic protests that this legislative text may have. Of course, one of the most characteristic points, which deserves to be spoken about, is that SYRIZA, through this legislation, is confronted with his past, faces his antimony ethos and, above all, today appears before us, confronting the return of the repellent as a source of joy. Because we all know that mobility is an institution that did not exist in public service law or in public administration in general. Mobility as an institution is urgent. We were ordered by the Troika, and in this context it was legislated by the Reppa Act. Article 5 of Law 4024 for the first time introduces the institution of social mobility in the public sector and in a special way. It abolishes all discrimination and all borders between public services in the public sector and creates the institutional capacity of any official to move where necessary. In other words, through mobility, the modernisation that has been served in the public administration is the obligation for the state to go where there are vacant posts, after receiving them from where there are surpluses. So I am very pleased today that in the explanatory statement to this bill I can see that many Members of the majority are also here on the record that this is a useful tool in order to solve real needs in the area of public administration. So welcome to this new reform effort, which I see, however, that instead of serving it in the way it is needed, in order to actually become a tool that solves the needs of employment and efficiency in the public sector, this explanatory statement does not mention the history of the institution anywhere, as if this institution were created by zero, ex nihilo. It is not, however, because immediately after Mr Reppa, the Greek Parliament came back with Law 4093 - in the medium term, if I am not cheating, that was - it created a mobility, which from the narrow public sector included as a single service area, within which it was possible to move officials, and the wider public sector. In addition to this law, the provision of Article 91 of Law 4172 was introduced in 2013 on the Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which is perfectly well and mainly had a very great advantage, had a virtue of reform. He did what is missing today from your bill. What's that? It is what my previous colleagues have said, that there are no objective, predetermined criteria, and there is no modulation of these criteria by the host, assess and ultimately select those moving from one organic position to another. Indeed, in the context of this provision, then, Mr Mitsotakis issued - he was not well informed by the special speaker of the Potamio - a monumental ministerial decision, on 222,74/2013. I would like to see, if any of my fellow Members really are interested in throwing a eyelid at her, putting her through her even to see how the principles of transparency, non-discrimination, and, above all, the principles of sovereignty, are exactly the same as those principles that make this legislation suspicious. It is not voluntary, as you say, because against voluntary nature you have an exception, which I believe will be used, since we really voluntarily - from our experience - is the movement of an employee at a time when he is more qualified, has a better development, because he has obtained a degree during his service, and then he can in this way ask to go to another category, to a higher category, or to another sector. There, indeed, is the fact of voluntary nature very well. But where the problem arises is when we have surplus staff in a particular sector or in a particular body and in particular next door, where a lot of work is needed, where, perhaps, more effort is needed, no one goes. There, how will he be forced to remain a civil servant, to offer the social group with his movement where the state really needs him? This is an issue that we will address. You must also know that you will also deal with issues relating in particular to the wording of Article 7(3). There, as has been said, a regime of opaque reception management is being created for those who leave their place to travel or transfer to a new location. Here you will allow me, Minister, to dedicate some legal thoughts to you, because these are what we need to do. What is called transfer is a complex process, consisting of two more partial operations. The first act is the dismissal of what is transferred from the post it holds until the moment of its transfer, and then is its recruitment, its place in the post for which it is intended and occupied. So you realise that there are two issues here: firstly, there is a dismissal, which does not give any opinion on the matter, which, on the basis of the provision of Article 103(4), must be given an opinion before this cessation takes place. Of course, we are aware that this makes the whole process completely powerless. In fact, this special constitutional provision says that it should consist of 2/3 permanent officials. There is no such instrument. The second and most important is this: I accept that you have now entered this mandate, and I do not know whether you will have been informed that the name of this ministry as the Ministry of Administrative Reform has indeed been made with a memorandum of remembrance, that is, that is to say, the demand of the Troika. Because I remember that you had also bought against the Mitsotakis Act, Article 91 - I found it written in the Minutes - as my former MEP Vassilis Mulopoulos, who was indeed a very good presence at that time in Parliament, said that this mobility is an instrument that Troika uses to lead to the death of public service. So this mobility, you are serving today. At least, however, I think you have an obligation, especially, to do so with an honesty and, above all, a democratic sensitivity that the Constitution respects. The Constitution in this case says that it is precisely in this public administration that we must at last take an interest in democracy and equality, which together means ensuring and providing guarantees, through which the citizen will have equal access to positions relating to the public sector in the face of his personal value and his ability and, secondly, that this should be done with institutions which ensure the principle of impartiality and transparency. This is not the most critical of the process of transition, of mobility, in other words, where the choice is made, which leaves an organic position and is appointed to another. There is one big question, firstly, because this interview is not an interview of such a kind that ensures neither impartiality nor transparency, and that is of course what the Ice Bay House says in its decision number 281/2005 that you can find. That is exactly where we need to know that, in order to ensure impartiality, this method of selection through the oral interview should in practice have been reflected in both the question and the answer and be public, as was in the Mitsotakis reform, where the minutes were actually being recorded. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In addition, it must include the individual judgment of each of the members of that three-member board. If you don't do that, then it'll be all in the air. Because, as has been accepted by the Council of State, but also by colleagues here, I think that they know it, the guarantees of transparency must not only apply when hiring a civil servant, but also at the stage of his evolution, his promotion and his transfer. So that's why you're gonna have a problem. I call on you, if you really are in the mood to do so in a proper way, you could assign the choice - because this is an recruitment, as I have said - to the AACC, which, as a result of the limitation of competitions and recruitments, is not much work. If, therefore, you want to convince us of the very specific ambitions we have all heard, for transparency, impartiality and for the fight against favorableism and the customer state, you can entrust the AACC with this work and we will applaud it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u103	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your intervention. What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u104	Mr President, you have given me up twice when I got out of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u105	I didn't insult you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u106	So you realize...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u107	They didn't tell you right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u108	I heard it from the monitor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u109	Ask your colleagues. I justified you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u110	But since you justify me, and you know I'm dating for the needs of the bill - next door is the monitor and you know it - I think the other one is simple impressions. I'd beg...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u111	Are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u112	I would also like to make a comment to Mr Javarra. Mr. Javarra, for the day you've been changed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u113	I have not given you the floor to answer Mr. Javarra. I gave you the floor on the staff. So, listen, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u114	What you're doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u115	Sit down now, you're done with your staff. I have not given you the floor for Mr. Javarra. Read the Rules of Procedure and tell me where, in what article, a Minister is going out for the needs of the bill for ten minutes and speaks of a Member and a parliamentary representative of the Officership and ministerial benches is empty. I had to interrupt the meeting. In fact, they broke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u116	He's right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u117	I had to interrupt, and instead I said that you're always in this House and I understand, because you don't have a Deputy and Secretary, that some reason for seriousness has made you out. And you're coming to give up on me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u118	You're the one who forsakes me. I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u119	I didn't insult you at all. I told you that I had to interrupt the meeting. What do you want? That was my answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u120	The answer is, while you know why I went out and you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u121	No, Minister, I don't know why you're out. Your partners didn't let me know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u122	And you're doing it for impress.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u123	Your partners didn't let me know and I don't need any impressions, Mrs. Gerovas. You have three partners. Let someone come and let me know. I can't imagine why you're getting out of the Chamber and it's the second time you've been out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u124	You are experienced, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u125	Because I am experienced, then, you had to thank me and not make a matter for me. We're done. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Ministers for Economy and Development, Home, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Culture and Sport, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development and Home Affairs submitted on 24-11-2016 the draft law on ‘New institutional framework for economic activity and other provisions’. As the services have informed me, it is the OECD Toolbox II. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr. Koutsoukos has warned that because of an impediment he will speak the last day. Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting with the main one: the bill on public mobility is an express obligation on the third memorandum, which you have all voted on and, of course, the main prerequisite for the second assessment, for which you are all fighting together with BSE and some pathetic committees of wise capital. But you will not make that anguish of the people. Alas, if the people were struggling for how to apply your memorials, how you will dismantle collective labour contracts, when redundancies will be released, how difficult it will be for you to make it difficult for them, in other words, that you are preparing to serve them along with the quartet on the main dish of the second assessment in a package of European acquis! On the contrary, these historic bloodshed conquerions of the working class, which entered your sights, fuel racing mobilizations that slow down the present and the next general strike in December prove it. The Memorandum of Understanding, therefore, to achieve the budgetary objectives, as the Minister said, wild austerity, namely, for the effectiveness of public administration, efficiency in the immediate implementation by the state mechanism of what policy, really? What political measures? But, of course, the anti-grassroots policy and the barbaric measures you are voting on. At the same time you dare talk about a citizen-friendly state. By defending the bill yesterday, we were asked by the SYRIZA rapporteur: Is it good that any reform improves the lives of workers in public and citizens' lives in this country? Do you not think it is necessary to improve working conditions for workers? Now for how better our people's lives are, our people live. As far as the contribution to this bill is concerned, the rapporteur of our party has already spoken in detail. So what are you telling us? Do you think you're better off living the people with your politics while you're devastated? Do you think that when you implement the restructuring which dictates the interests of the ruling class to modernise public administration to its benefit, they have anything to do with the real needs of the people? When did this happen? Now, whether the JRC is interested in improving, even a little, the lives of the people, what can we tell you? You are probably not following the day-to-day tireless work and action of thousands of communists and other peoples who are fighting alongside us for the small and the great problems that your own policy creates, like the previous ones. You and your government are not systematically rejecting any proposal for a law tabled by the JRC to relieve people's households of debts, raisins, to increase basic wages, to increase collective agreements and so much more. What are you really going to do about today's amendment on the health field, which provides for the permanentisation of all subsidiary doctors and contract workers in hospitals? Isn't that a proposal that improves health care for the people? Will you vote for it? Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at today's bill, not in conjunction with the government's previous legislation on public policy, then it can be disorientated to see only the velvet glove and not the iron hand that hides inside it. That is why we are also considering it as a follow-up to all the previous laws of the New Democracy and PASOK on public policy, and in line with Law No.4369, known as the Vernardakis Act, which reminds us that it has introduced a system of assessment of structures and civil servants on the basis of the targeting, of course, of the objectives of government policy, the unbundling of workers in the public sector, the linking of evaluation to the wages and redundancies of civil servants, since the relevant provision of the Budget Code, Minister, lives and reigns. Here is what the key elements of today's bill are: it accepts, recognises and legitimises all the sweeping changes in the public sector, which caused abolitions, mergers of public bodies and organisations associated with social needs. Thousands of closed schools, closed hospitals and social structures have of course got together with them organic positions. Secondly, it proclaims new abolitions and mergers, since Article 5 states that it redistributes staff to public services, following restructuring of services, mergers of bodies or changes in the ownership status of operators, namely privatisations. Thirdly, it acts as an accelerator of the reactionary assessment, as it sets it as a precondition for mobility, an assessment - a tool for further abolitions and mergers of social services of the State and a north on the horizons of capital for profits. Fourthly, in today's pressing need for direct appointments to all social services in the state, your government responds with a dry 'no', expecting, as the SYRIZA rapporteur said, that in the absence of recruitment mobility will improve public administration. You are, however, causing, when you talk about surplus personnel while in education, health, welfare, insurance funds, state control mechanisms, and especially those relating to the health and safety of workers, staff shortages are explosive and existing workers actually give their souls. But what mobility do you have to apply to subordinated services? All you're going to do is move civil servants and make them a ball literally to block the most outraged needs and fairly share the shortcomings between state services. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u127	Go on, Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u128	Thank you. Fifthly, the 'turkey' of voluntary mobility cannot hide the 'fact' of compulsory movements by a Minister's decision and also by a decision, the known Article 9, or the trap of the interview of the candidates to be moved, an interview involving the element of subjectivity and leaving, of course, widening the doors for arbitrariness. And since we're talking about it, we'll say it again, because our question remains. Are you going to abolish the frontier allowance, Minister, and replace it with the bonuses for evolution? We're waiting for the answer. Finally, revealing your intentions for the public is the limit you set in Article 4 to make a transfer or a secondment. Consider 50% staffing a service capable of allowing a move. In other words, you consider it very normal that a service operates with half the staff it takes and let teachers be missed from schools and let the workers in hospitals be made redundant, and let patients and their relatives be troubled, and let young pensioners wait for years to get their pensions, which you also cut off, and let farmers wait for their damage and wait, in short, for the people's needs. For you all this is normal for us and the people are not. For all this, we are voting against your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u129	Mr Theocharis has the floor, then Mr. Lagos, Mr. Jamaklis, Mr. Athanasios, and then Mr. Lappas. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shameful theatre that is being played again these days! The government once again goes to a negotiation on the closure of the evaluation, having decided to accept it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u131	How do you know? Have you been told?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u132	The entire Greek people know that. And in order to convince the Members of the House, he recalls the'red lines' in meaningless speeches to the parliamentary group. It just gives you the excuse, as polls give you the incentive to vote for what has already decided from the outside. Of course, you want to go to elections that the New Democracy wants. Which is a mockery! Is there any chance that you and New Democracy will ever want to? These are funny things to make fun of the Greek people. You are simply observers of a country that changes hands as its young people migrate abroad. At a time when the country needs reform in the social state, in the economy, in the institutions, in the public administration, the government is spent on paper projects, just as this bill will stay on paper, trying to kick the ball a little further down, a little further away and get political time. But the government's gain in political time results in numerous damage to the country's recovery effort. Ladies and gentlemen, the plan does not come out. The numbers aren't coming out. The system you serve doesn't come out. The country must be built from the beginning, so must the Greek state. There is a need for a new architecture for the public sector to become operational and productive, new architecture with a distinction between strategic, supervisory and commercial purposes, with a hard strategic core, which will define the legal framework, define the strategy and exercise political control, with flexible and functional structures, with independent authorities and bodies which are supervised by the Ministry of Institutions detached from party hugging, with technocratic competence and objective and fair supervision, and, finally, with services that perform a service and provide commercial or social goods, services that operate in terms of efficiency and accountability. The selection of administrations should be fully detached from the influence of political and trade union classes and assigned to the AACC with clear criteria of effectiveness, with the human potential of change, a description of jobs, a system of management of knowledge and ideas of officials to improve their service, provide incentives through this system to improve the performance of the staff member and connect this performance to his salary. Not negative, positive. A new architecture in the public sector requires the simplification of its structures. There is no reason to have many bodies that pay money to the citizens. For example, pre-school, unemployment and pension benefits can, as in many developed countries, be paid by an agency. We need to move on with the abolition of citizens' contacts with the state through the use of e-government. For example, no contacts between employees and retired people with tax, except on the phone. Instead of all this, the hot theme of mobility is being promoted. What does the government want to achieve with this bill? The explanatory statement, as well as colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party, has eloquently described it. The single mobility system is a staff redistribution tool. It leads to an effective public administration. It improves the management of human resources. It creates a framework for transparency in movements. It introduces movements on the basis of objective criteria. Does this bill make all this important? I'm afraid not. The exclusive voluntary nature does not allow the redistribution of personnel on the basis of the operational needs of the public. The Mobility Committee, which will judge the requests of additional staff, in which the party appointed will be a majority, does not guarantee the effectiveness of the public administration. The three-member committee of staff from the Host Service, which will judge without clear criteria, is not a element of transparency. Mr Barriots has already said that there is not even a procedure of objections. Neither is the non-structured interview a criterion of objectivity. Ladies and gentlemen, how will you move three of your own, according to what is commonly called a 'chilet' service? Give an example for people to understand it. Firstly, the service sends a request to the Mobility Committee. The committee, in turn, without a very strict system of criteria, will accept it as four members are appointed by the government. On the electronic platform the locations to be covered and applications are made. There is, of course, also the 'dangers' of transparency. The three candidates apply with the others. The three-member committee selects them, since you have unclear criteria without individualisation. And to be sure, you also have an unstructured interview, so that we can be sure that the result will come right. What should be done? Because this is where we have to propose. Flexibility and transparency. He needs a system like this. Following the request of a service, the AACC shall establish clear criteria for mobilisation and construction of the specific interview for these posts, public criteria, which shall be posted together with these posts. After the three-member evaluation has been carried out, the results shall be uploaded anonymously and made public. It can therefore be judged how the committee worked. So the solutions exist. You don't want them. I would like to conclude by saying a few words about the amendments. On the issue of NSAs, the Minister had promised Elefsina's workers that they would be moved along with the sale of the land in ELPE. It is clear that this amendment is coming to golden their pill. It does not, however, change the fact that the Minister is inconsistent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You are also bringing a pharanonic electronic process of issuing and handling administrative acts and documents to the public, which is doomed to fail. If you really wanted to modernise the procedure for handling documents, you would set specific specifications for the public protocol systems, giving a reasonable time to change where they exist, but not let new tenders take place without meeting these standards. Very quickly we would have the right result. Finally, in Article 16, you are taking steps back in relation to previous arrangements. You are introducing exceptions to the issue of organograms and the public administration, which I am sure has imposed them, will use them to exclude many services. You do not use "DENMARK" and what has been done about organograms and there is nowhere an obligation to open the organisational data for the effective control of public services. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, it does not change anything in public. This logic does not change anything in the country. And the country cannot wait for you, because tomorrow it will be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u133	Before I summoned Mr. Rabbit to Stepma, I would like to say that I asked and they brought me the evidence, because things should not be said. You know that the House is being watched by many Greek and Greek women and we must, when we talk about either ourselves or the staff of the House, be careful, otherwise we give handles to write things. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, if you saw yesterday that there was an article in a daily newspaper saying that the House is full of cans, because that is what the Greek people want. I am not commenting on either the author, but we must be careful about all of us and first of all the President-in-Office. Well, they're permanent and private law 1,588. On the 31-5-2016 in the parliament, there were a thousand hundred and ninety-four, some four hundred less than the organic positions provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and there are in the planned seats of ninety-five employees, who are minus sixty those who are currently serving. It's a hundred and thirty-nine. If there are few or many, this is another kind of conversation. We just need to know when we report numbers. To be precise and not to create impressions, even sometimes well-advanced and unintentionally. Here, Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. A few hours ago the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative said, referring to the Minister, "Here we are discussing a bill which obviously, Minister, you do not know, because that is how you came from the troika, in order to vote, but you need to see how you are going to pass it." That's what he said, charming, but telling the truth. So, of course, this bill, as we have repeatedly said since the Golden Dawn, as many others, everything that comes, is on the order. It is not possible for the Parliamentary Representative and the New Democracy to tell us that this bill has come at the command of the troika and the international loan sharks, but the memorials that come and are a few thousand pages, you read them and you vote on them, and they are on your command. Are these memos coming from international loan sharks too? There you have nothing to say to each other nor to make opposition. There you are simply taking them this afternoon and tomorrow morning you have read them by magic three to four thousand pages and go and vote together. So if you didn't want, gentlemen of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the ANELs to bring such bills that come at the command, you wouldn't have voted on the memos, so that this whole thing is happening in our homeland. But we have said it again that you are all children of the same party tube in substance, because you have been representing the same vile regime for forty-five years. If some people are to blame that our country has plummeted and reached this point, there is no one but those in the Greek Parliament for all these years. And in the Greek Parliament all these years it was the New Democracy, it was the PASOK and it was the Left. They were institutionalizing, they were bringing the laws, they made the rugs with the civil servants, and they reached our country on these points. So today we are discussing a bill. I was pre-empted by the President, because here I had to say that we have read some articles in the last few days. While we are saying that we want to stop this huge state, which has been created with people who do not even know what service they belong to, we have seen here that post-mortem officials - from what is stated in the report, I repeat - were, in December 2014, a thousand eight hundred eighty eighty and currently about two thousand sixty-seven. So this shows SYRIZA's hypocrisy that what he does is not to rationalise the process, which is there, nor to actually gather the too many civil servants who exist, but is to implement some of the orders that have been given. Also, I'd like to stand here and ask something. Since this bill will be passed tomorrow, why would the secondments continue to take place until 15.4.2017, why? After bringing a bill, and you even bring it under the urgency procedure, are you in a hurry to go through it to implement, how do you allow them a considerable margin of time of about six months? Maybe to make some other little kids comfortable, we'd like to put them in? Perhaps to raise the party army we have, why in the upcoming elections SYRIZA will find it difficult to get a two-digit number of Greek citizens voting for him? Is it for all this? Otherwise, you had no reason to bring it in urgent form and to vote tomorrow, so that it could be implemented after a six-month period. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We are seeing Article 8 and we are discussing the incentives for the establishment of border regions. That's right. But how will this whole process be done? We have seen reports in the last few days that say that on one of our islands, in Kassos, there are "public services" without a civil servant and the mayor runs to do the job alone. So, what's going on over there? Of course, it is not just Kassos, it is all the remote regions of Greece, which deliberately the unethical state, the unethical governments, who rule our homeland for so many years, have left a chariot. Also, they have not only left them with ballot, but now with the pretext of thousands of illegal immigrants, who have flooded our islands, we have put the NGOs, this big gangrene, over there with very thick wages, and we have people there who, in fact, are replacing the Greek public. There, therefore, these NGOs should be expelled, because their role is very subtle and ugly, and they should go to Greek public sector workers and do the work that those NGOs do. What are these people, some Israelis, some Turks, some Swedes, something I don't know what, and they should be in and do this job that the Greek state should do? What right? Do you not feel bad about the work of the Greeks, the Greek state, does some people, some NGOs? For these NGOs, as we see here again in reports, there is a scandal because, he says, they amount to more than twelve thousand NGOs, those who have received hundreds of millions of euros from the Greek State - listen to what reasons - because, he says, the reasoning of the activities includes training for women in India to save their money! Another says that they were training women in an Arab country, but in which there was no woman involved! These are the NGOs you have and you give them hundreds of millions of euros. We ask as Golden Dawn: do we have responsibility for political persons or do we not have responsibility for political persons? What mandate have these specific scandals been made, which you know very well, but do you cover them? Is it true that ministerial decisions with the same protocol number have been identified, but for different projects? When and where did all this happen? All this has happened here in Greece, with the tolerance, if not with the participation, of the 'Greek', I repeat, governments. A great deal of food, then, from non-governmental organisations. We also see in Article 25 in this bill you say that you are being cut for the various vulnerable groups of our Greek compatriots, for the multiples, for the repatriators. But while you're tired and want to help them, there's this oxymomile. From where the quota for the multitude was 20%, you make it 15%! And from where he was 5% for the retired, you do it 2%! What kind of sympathy and favorable treatment is this when you cut people and not when you raise people who can find a place in public and work to support their families? Really, it's a very mystery! And I would like to refer to a number of topical issues, because if the Golden Dawn does not say so, nobody else is saying so. They're not mentioned anywhere. On the 21st day of the month, Monday, a Greek civil servant - the disadvantage of man and the evil was that he was Greek! - he died in a cliff that he had with an Iraqi illegal immigrant inside the services, in a particular Piraeus Municipality building. This news was buried by everyone. So when a step of the Golden Dawn with MPs and executives went to this place, it saw this disgusting: no one wants to tell us the truth and deny that it had become such an incident. While if he had eaten a slap by an illegal immigrant, it would have been a first issue in all news reports! The man was dead and nobody mentioned it. And finally, we saw that this Iraqi, who entered by holding a knife and threatening our Greek fellow citizen, was a guy who had been sentenced to twenty years in prison and had served ten years for two homicides in the beneficial terms of the Left and the Law of Paradise! And this man had entered this office demanding that his papers on political asylum be given to him immediately. And he made a lot of fuss because we had been late for him. And our Greek fellow citizen died! And not only that, but at the entrance of the office - because they had been closed and had placed security and police to prevent the entry of ordinary citizens - they said that the service today for an emergency will be closed. Some "extreme" event, some "unprecedented" event was the death of our Greek fellow citizen, as if a switch had broken and could not light the electricity! This is the present Greece in which we live! Where were the people here? Where were the humanists here? Where did they care about our Greek fellow citizen, who died like a dog in the vineyard? And not only that, but no one's ever dealt with him. This is the Greece in which you have forced us to live! However, we are not prepared to tolerate this thing any more. And that is why a multitude of Greek compatriots is in favour of the Golden Dawn. Also, the incident was known and we learned about a four - year - old boy who got caught up at the last minute and took it out of the flames. I wish that kid could live, I wish he could get away with what he pulled out of! So, as far as this kid is concerned, the poor Greek family was hit because they had, he says, put some candles to see, why PPC had cut off their electricity. This is the state you have done, the anti-Greek state against our Greek compatriots, while you are being cut off for all illegal immigrants who have illegally entered the border of our country and who are plundering, stealing and terrorizing. And if you haven't gone from our islands, Chios, Lesvos, I suggest you take a walk to see what the situation is. Go talk to our Greek fellow citizens and go back to the glamorous and hideout of your Parliament, to make us the humanists and say great words. In addition, a few hours ago we saw the Minister of Finance, Mr Chakalotos, officially alibiing the previous governments and saying that we will not ask for a committee of inquiry on the first memorandum. But how can Tsakalotos ask for an examination of the memorandum, when he himself has signed the third Memorandum, the condemnation of our country and you are about to sign a fourth Memorandum. Tsakalotos, Tsipras and all the SYRIZA - ANEL conflict are trying to have them well with this system that you have done so that they do not do any examination for you, you do not do examination for them and all together, as our people say, wash the other hand both faces! And have a good time in the health of the suckers, who are our Greek fellow citizens! To conclude, I would like to mention another incident that occurred in the Piraeus region, on the Keratini-Piraeus border - many of you do not know these things, because these areas are far from you - where one of these NGOs we were talking about - and they have stolen hundreds of millions of euros - namely the 'PRAKSIS', took over an area hosted by the 4th Piraeus High School, in order to make a centre of illegal immigrants within Keratini, within Piraeus. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. The people's reaction was immediate with a unique ally on Golden Dawn, as, of course, it makes sense. And we have seen that these work has stopped - and we will stop them elsewhere - in legal and beautiful ways, when we tabled a question as Golden Dawn, and we have asked about the work carried out on what the licence number is and what the date on which the Planning has been issued? And because there was neither a licence nor a number nor nothing, these works were stopped. And now these people are running there of the PRAKSIS NGO, with some other partners, anarchal laundry, who want to scare the people, in order to rebuild this centre of illegal immigrants in the heart of Piraeus. Golden Dawn won't let these things happen. Golden Dawn invites all our Greek fellow citizens who want to react, in legal ways, to exercise their rights, not to allow them to do what you want. New Republic, PASOK, SYRIZA, ANEL and all other parties, you want to make a Greece levelled, a Greece that will be subject to illegal immigrants. Golden Dawn is not willing to allow it and will fight with our Greek fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u135	Mr. Jamaklis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u136	Mr President, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u137	Here, Minister, are you asking the reason for any clarification? What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u138	I'd like the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u139	Mr. Jackalis, should we give for a minute or two the floor to the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u140	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u141	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u142	Mr President, I would just like two minutes to tell you about two, three inaccuracies which have been heard and I do not want them to remain impressed because it has a television viewer in this House. One has to do with the possibility of fear of abolishing the border allowance because of the incentives given for travel and mobility. I would like to assure you that there is no such question of abolishing a border benefit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u143	Circular is given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u144	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u145	Another inaccurate thing, which was heard, is that when it was the bill in consultation, there were articles that one could not comment on. He's completely untrue, too. There were three or four articles to which there were no comments. And by the system, when the date closes, these articles just write that you can't come in when the date expires. And I have to table all the consultation dialogue here in the Minutes. There was no closed article. [[At this point, the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Olga Gerovasili, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, something was heard about the SYRIZA building in Koumoundouros that he does not pay taxes. The truth is that SYRIZA has been paying taxes retroactively since 2002, as it was due.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u146	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u147	On the contrary, Mr Jawara, do not exterminate yourself! Because be careful who does not pay his bank obligations, the PASOK and the New Democracy. And because of the same...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u148	Retarded! And the'retrospective', Madam Minister, and the 'delayed'!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u149	Okay, please, don't interrupt. Madam Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u150	The "retrospective", Mr. Javarra, is about when it came to SYRIZA's ownership. You know what that's like.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u151	It's true!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u152	Don't make any impressions! We're not as much as you're trying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u153	Never.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u154	Pay your bank obligations, you be okay, and let's talk about it again. We pay both loans and taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u155	They're serious...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u156	You deceived the bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u157	We're not the same, so be careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u158	Mr. Jamaklis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I congratulate the Minister for taking responsibility for the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction and wishing her good luck and good power. I am sure, Minister, that you will continue your predecessors' work in order to build a new, modern, operational and effective framework for public administration, which is necessary to help the need for productive reconstruction in our country. This legislative framework will contribute to the complete degradation of the customer state that has been maintained for many decades. Today's bill is a reasonable and political follow-up to the previous laws on the evaluation of civil servants and the National Register of Officials. It aims and aspires to end the time-consuming and irrational system of transitions and distractions of the past, building the need for old civilian staff and party staff to make services. This is the same political staff, which, when pushed by creditors to rationalise public administration, went through the services of compulsory movements, redundancies and availability. A key innovation of the proposed single mobility system is its purely voluntary nature and, in particular, the ability of each employee to access all the posts to be covered. Totally voluntary, therefore, mobility but on the basis of uniform rules on terms, conditions and procedures in general. The proposed system introduces two basic principles which should have been self-evident to the public administration: first, the temporary movement of staff, namely secondment, without having a vacant organic position, now constitutes an exceptional form of mobility rather than the general rule. That is why it is linked to the existence of proven, serious and urgent service needs and has a limited duration. This option is dictated by the fact that the up-to-date bodies of the bodies will include all posts per industry and per organisational unit needed to meet their needs. Therefore, the need to second officials, in addition to covering organic positions, should be specifically justified in the context of urgent needs. Secondly, the secondment is linked to the performance of duties of a certain sector, for which the staff member has the formal and substantive qualifications required. The draft law places particular emphasis on the transparency of the whole process. The positions to be covered shall be made public three times a year by the agencies of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction in corresponding mobility cycles and shall be posted on a dedicated electronic platform in the form of a list of available positions. They shall also be made public on the Internet. Organography and exhibitions are digital and everyone has access. It makes the electronic movement of documents compulsory. The draft law provides for a fixed binding period of one quarter to complete the mobility procedures, i.e. from the submission of the application until the adoption of a decision. This is, of course, an important innovation. A major regulation of the bill is the redistribution of percentages for special categories of citizens in the system of recruitment of the law of Peponnes. Thus, 15% of posts will be covered by multitude and laminated children and 10% of posts will be covered by three-tier and three-tier children. Furthermore, 10% of posts will be covered by people with a disability rate of at least 50% and 5% of posts will be covered by those with a child, brother or wife, as well as children with a disability rate of 67% or more. The regulation on persons with disabilities meets the legitimate demand for the movement of these persons. The aim is at the same time to serve the needs of public administration, the needs of civil servants and the needs of citizens. This is a bold goal, which is largely dependent on the attitudes that will be taken in the future and the political staff and the citizens concerned. Otherwise, every law is at risk of having no results, regardless of whether it is an economic and social necessity, such as the one under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u160	Thank you to Mr Jamakli and to the economy of time. Next, Mr Athanasios from New Democracy, and then Mr Lappas, as a parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA. Mr. Lappa, that's what I found for granted. After the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative, we said two speakers and then you. Come on, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we have not been convinced by the answer you gave about the loan. In order for all Members and the Greek people to be informed, I must remind you that today in the committee of inquiry it was revealed that your party had received a loan from the Ionian Bank amounting to 410 million drachmas in 1997.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u162	It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u163	Ensuring the subsurface of the building of Koumoundouros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u164	But please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u165	That's how it started, but with interest and so on, it went so much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u166	Four hundred ten?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u167	It's been told to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u168	This has not been said, ask your colleagues. Then it started...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u169	You'll tell me later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u170	Mr. Athanasios... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u171	This loan is a haircut. Is it 60% or 40%? There's been a haircut and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u172	Mr. Athanasios, I'm sorry, I'll give you the time. You started interfering...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u173	Mr President, I beg your pardon, the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u174	...for a process that has nothing to do with the bill, issues and issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u175	I'm so sorry, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u176	There was a petition from the Minister. As far as I understand it, because I was not in the Chamber, reference was made to the plenary sitting by a Member of the New Democracy. Answer as he answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u177	The answer was not complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u178	You come now, don't dynamite the climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u179	No, I don't. You shouldn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u180	We're wasting time. My fellow Members are also waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u181	The people...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u182	I would ask you to limit yourself to the bill as long as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u183	Mr President, I will only answer that. I'm done. If you let me go, I'd be done now. Because the whole truth has not been spoken here by the Minister and therefore we must be told and ask some questions that need to be answered. So this loan is a haircut. Now if it became 60% or if it became 40%, it will emerge and we will see it. We would like to know and be answered by the Minister under what conditions this haircut was made either 60% or 40%. Is there an operation to repay the loan? That's the question. Lawyers understand what I mean. And I imagine my friend Spyros will be able to answer. Because that's the thing, if there's an act of repayment. Why don't you forget, the Prime Minister in a previous debate here in plenary said that the loans that we were taking later were secured with Koumoundourou. So the next question is, what property is SYRIZA now owning Koumoundouros and when? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u184	You didn't hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u185	And last, all these years, sixteen years since then, you've been paying RDUs? Were you paying taxes? These are the answers that need to be given. Now on the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is sloppy, especially in Chapter B, Articles 20 next, and it is a total lack of strategic planning for the government and your predecessor Minister. Madam Minister, this is not about you, I am referring to your predecessor. A few months ago, the parliament legislated Law No.4369/16 and today it comes to supplement it, because it obviously forgot or neglected to legislate on the relevant incompatibilities and impediments. If you look at the law I mentioned, there are no incompatibilities and impediments. From a legal point of view, the articles are a monument of unfamiliar legislation, since those articles are not to be added to the existing legislation, as they should have been, but are to be made autonomously, without being systematically incorporated into Law No.4369/16. However, there appear to be other purposes, as it is clear that the provisions are intended to restrict the scope of the regulation if not the exclusion of private sector officials from public administration, which will ultimately be achieved with Law No.4369/16, thanks to our strong reaction. In other words, it was not achieved at that time, thanks to the strong reaction of the Opposition and especially of our party. Now a few articles topics. In view of the fact that the debate is unified, Mr President, and we will not talk any more, if I need a minute more. I had the interruption anyway. In Article 4(1), ladies and gentlemen, it is not clear whether the new establishments recently adopted are a prerequisite for the implementation of the law. If this is the case, which is wrong and restrictive, is the provisions to be repealed, or will they not be seconded or transferred? It's a question. Paragraph 4 could be introduced to measure and upload on website or even on a database of the coverage rate foreseen per service, so that the minimum coverage rate for the staff member to have the right to move. That's not right. Our rapporteur and Mr Voridis and Mr Javarras have developed it. In other words, it might be better if the percentage is not below 50% - there is no safety - to make no switchovers, because otherwise we will have the transgressions, which they have mentioned - not to tire you out - the previous colleagues. In Article 5, perhaps the Central Mobility Committee should have members who have time to cope with the workload. I have doubts as to whether they will be able to do so as well in terms of composition. Perhaps the independent, not the employees, should have the majority on the board. As far as the interview is concerned, in addition to formal and practical qualifications, there is an interview. Mr. Javarras mentioned it very much. How will there be specialization of the Commission's crisis, particularly the Commission's members, not just? What scores will typically get, what scores, what scores, the interview? So that the person concerned may bring the action, if necessary in the courts, in order to be able to give justice. It is an issue that remains in flux and therefore serves purpose. In Article 19(3), I do not understand the express reference to the provisions repealed, since paragraph 1 stipulates that all provisions relating to transfers and secondments are repealed. The wording of paragraph 1 is unfortunate. What does it mean to say 'are they abolished if they are contrary to the terms and conditions set by the National Mobility Council'? All the provisions should be abolished immediately, otherwise there will be problems of interpretation and there will be many contradictory decisions in the courts, Minister. So you should see this. Article 20 shall be innovative and unnecessary as to whether or not to define the self-evident tasks for each official, in particular in a final other position of responsibility. This article recalls a explanatory statement and not a law article. However, even in this proclamation article there are problems. The last subparagraph states that ‘any special provision concerning incompatibility and restrictions shall not apply in addition’. It appears from the only reading of the provision that there has been no investigation into the matter. It is the government's legislation by means of framework provisions and it thinks that this is how it has cleared, forgive me. He does not know whether there are any more specific provisions that conflict with this legislation and does not seem to be of interest to her. In Article 21 I find no reason why the exercise of the legal function should be suspended for all lawyers without exception, for all the posts of Law No.4369/2016, much more so when provisions have been proposed in a conflict of interest. In that sense, the Government prevents successful lawyers from being interested in these positions, as it is certain that their legal offices will be closed down. It is therefore eradicating every initiative that a successful lawyer should have. I understand this reasoning for a Secretary-General, but not for presidents of legal persons. In particular, where a director is also provided for, and even more for the simple members of the board of directors. In paragraph 2...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u186	Mr. Athanasios, I would ask you to complete this. You've reached nine minutes. You have had three or four minutes of your speech on loans. Please, other colleagues are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u187	I shall conclude, Mr President. In paragraphs 2 and 3, this similar activity referred to is a vague concept, it will cause enormous problems. It will not be possible for the court to judge someone who will appeal to the courts, and we will have contradictory decisions as to when it is a similar activity and when it is not. There is a rich case-law in this matter and your lawyers should also tell you that this provision will cause enormous problems. If you cannot specify them, remove them. Conflict of interest. The definition of the conflict of interest and the scope of its application are very large, as it can be occupied by anyone, if it has a affinity up to a fourth degree or is closely linked to a public function. Anyone with a relationship of friendship, but not close to someone who can benefit from a decision of this person, will have a problem with the provision that I have mentioned. Obviously the concept of a narrow bond is unclear and vague and should be removed or specified. Even in the concept of conflict of interest international ratings, direct conflict of interest, indirect conflict, possible conflict, if you see the judgments of the Court of Justice on this matter as well. The three-year time limit is very long and strict. Look at that. In Article 23 you are trying to solve the phenomenon...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u188	Mr. Athanasios, you have said three times before. I'm so sorry, but you're gonna make me interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u189	All right, Mr. President. I'll just say a few words. I'm not going to embarrass you. I'm done. Look at this amendment. I'll explain why. It's a dangerous amendment. It has to do with the resignation of the public by means of court proceedings against primary decisions, final decisions which have not finalised or which have not been enforced, firstly because they may cause a huge problem, but above all, you say that they will resign from any claim. The lawyers here, like Mr Lappas, will tell you that according to the case-law of the courts, it is an invalid agreement that limits workers' rights, even if they sign up to anyone. There is no point in jurisprudence and in science and case law, so it does not make any sense. Look at this amendment because it is completely unfounded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u190	Before giving the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Lappa, to consult the rest of the procedure until the end of this evening's sitting. The Bureau's proposal, based on the legitimate questions of Members, is as follows: After Mr Lappa, who is the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, we have not been asked for another parliamentary representative, so we are continuing with the list of speakers. We are proposing to close this evening's sitting with Mr Kyriazides as the last of the speakers on the list and to stay ten speakers for tomorrow. Along with the rapporteurs, their secondary and the interventions of the ministers, with a tolerance of time, as we have calculated, this is about three and a half hours, i.e. if we start at twelve, i.e. after parliamentary scrutiny, about three and a half, the procedure will be terminated tomorrow. The last speaker for tonight will be Mr Kyriazidis. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u191	So the House unanimously agreed. Mr. Lappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. I too have an answer now to the question raised by the New Democracy about SYRIZA's property. Mr. Athanasios, Mr. Javarra, it is good to see the Greek film 'Down the thieves' with Dino Eliopoulos who finally ended: 'The thief cries to be afraid of the housekeeper'. You've got two hundred million debts here. Since 2011 you have not given one euro. You do not tell the Greek people how you will pay even a portion of your loans and you come and denounce SYRIZA, who has received a loan of eighty million drachmas, has paid a hundred and eighty for the repayment after three fertile auctions with an agreement - compromise with the bank and you are denounced already above. We paid the capital two and a half times. That's a lot of nerve. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u193	Documents...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u194	The documents you request, Mr Athanasios, will be submitted to the Committee of Inquiry. Your colleagues have been asked today. Let go of that, then. Do not shake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u195	It wasn't your property and you were getting loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u196	In an exam to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u197	You're welcome. Mr. Lappa... I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u198	Go ahead and place on the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u199	It is only you who made 'cuts'. You deceived...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u200	What do you think? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u201	Don't interrupt. You're welcome. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u202	Mr President, it has taken me two minutes of my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u203	Don't be afraid. I'll give you your time, Mr. Lappa. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u204	Madam Minister, good courage in this difficult ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to all the speakers of all the parties and I will answer them in detail. But before that, I'll say two things. Mr Javarra, I will sincerely give you a phrase from the newly-democratic former President of the House, Mr Sioufas, at the last public administration conference. Listen to her. "To the question why the public sector is the biggest weak explanation there is. I would first like to recognise to myself the responsibility for this matter and all those who have performed similar tasks." In order to confirm the responsibility of all the ministers who have served the public administration, he refers to Roides, who said in 1880 that "a law of the Greek state must finally be issued which makes the application of all the laws of the Greek state mandatory". He noted at this conference that five thousand laws have been passed since 1974 and over a hundred and twenty thousand presidential decrees and ministerial decisions have been issued. And here's the outrageous one. Only the GMO, the General Building Regulation, has three hundred and four thousand amendments - as a code. You can see this in a historical regression. What is the Greek public administration since 1950 with its pathogens, imperfections, illnesses, irrationality? So we'd expect at least from you, a party of power is supposed to - wouldn't we? - who ruled the place together with the PASOK decades, take a retreat and say start with an assumption, that this regime is sick. It provides services of minimum quality to the Greek people and Greek citizens. It has to change. Refugee the bill of arrest and don't make a proposal. What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u205	You abolished a perfect piece of legislation, and here's an unorthography...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u206	You're welcome. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u207	Listen, gentlemen of the New Democracy, what Kyriakos Varvaressos found in 1952: irrational distribution of personnel, unintentional fragmentation of services, geographical overconcentration of services, low-qualified personnel, falsifications, hunger wages, useless organizations and services, unfair and multitude of allowances, anxieties, party assignments. Many of them have been in force so far. Let's face it. Otherwise, we can't start for nowhere. This bill is an incision, whether you like it or not. If, however, you are demolishing it by a general denial that there is no need for any intervention in public administration, then I must tell you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that in every effort to reform public administration you are actually asking a question of governance of the place, which is the reform of public administration. That's where we should start. And now, in the arguments you suggested, you have been struggling and I will answer immediately. Mr Georgios said that he was ready to discuss the incompatibilitys, etc., if we added the party incompatibilities. I think that makes a contradiction. And I'll tell you why. Mr. Representative of the New Democracy, you must know that the combination of Articles 103 and 29 of the Constitution - they are here and professors of Constitutional law - gives the constitutional possibility for free participation of Greek citizens in parties, which means that this is a secondary total freedom to the freedom of the Greeks to establish parties freely without any interference. It means that it is forbidden to make provision for a right to be upheld, Mr Javarra. So the promotion of the party incompetent is forbidden by the Constitution. Don't put it again. Also, something was heard by Mr. Papatheodorou. Mr Papatheodorou, on the subject of evaluation, the law, paragraph 3 of Article 7, says that "for the evaluation of candidates, account is taken of the relevance of the formal and substantive qualifications to the declared post, the evaluation reports". Do you know what that means? The rating burden a staff member has, his service route follows him everywhere and the transfer that is the rule and the secondment that is the exception. And not just that. Here's how he combines it. ‘The evaluation reports, the experience in carrying out their respective duties and any information from the staff register’, that is to say, the ‘determining the suitability for the post concerned. For the fullest evaluation, which means that it is more than three "there is also an interview in which practical and practical is also justified". And a reasoned record, that is. What safeguard do you want there to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u208	Questions and answers are written?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u209	They're written, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u210	Where does it come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u211	It comes from the register, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u212	Mr. Javarra, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u213	We stress and repeat this: The evaluation, the way it is done...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u214	...don't ask, don't interrupt. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u215	It's a living process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u216	Uh, no, okay. It's a living process, but I'm so sorry. Don't interrupt. Look, we agreed to end up in a certain timeframe, but if you want, we can go further, pull it out at dawn. Excuse me now. Respect the speaker too, because when you go up to the Step, it's different. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u217	Therefore, the burden of evaluation follows the official either as a transferor or as a detachment and with all other guarantees, I think it is an adequate institutional framework of merit, transparency and publicity. Now, too, Mr Papatheodorou was also projected 'because there is no moulation'. In this bill, the specific, Mr Papatheodorou, I would say that it cannot apply for a simple reason, because it cannot, in advance, be a general moleculus rule, when transfers and secondments are essentially service choices and actions which close certain holes, in other words, problems of ad hoc service. You cannot set a general rule in advance about what molecules are for Kassos, what molecules are the molecules for Soufli, what molecules are the molecules for Athens. That's why I think it is. We would have no problem building a general rule of mobilisation, as is done in the previous bill, in the Register of Administrative Officers. And that's what I'm answering. I also reply to the friend of the JRC, Mr. Delis, who said that any attempt to improve administrative reform of the public administration, since they are within the framework of capitalism, is essentially serving pluralism. It's not like that, Mr. Delia. And you know why it's not like that? Because you may or may not agree to or do not want to confirm that the administrative machinery of the European states - which is capitalist in these states - was envious even of your fans, at least those who went to Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, Sweden and Denmark. Unfortunately, that is the truth, and you and we need to see it on the left. Why is this truth and here we as Left refuse such an administrative machine? Because there are neither tails nor deadlines nor years for the retirement or award of service options and pleasures. So you'll see. It's not exactly like that. You're wrong somewhere. Your account is happening somewhere. I'm going to what Mr. Voridis said. He said about the property and I don't want to tell him anything. He said we won't be able to implement the bill, because our time is short. I've heard him say it since February of '15. So the time he tells himself has increased a lot. Imagine how much our government service will grow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u218	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u219	That's for sure. And he made a argument about the 15% reduction in laundry, and here too, there must be a concrete response and arguments. I say to you: the reduction in the percentage is from 10% to 15% and the increase in the tritecs is 15% plus 10%. In fact, this ratio is also strict in favour of the citizens, because the last census is a very small proportion of the thirds. That is the criterion by which this choice has been made. Look into it and you'll see it. You have the relevant agencies and employees, investigate it. Therefore, it is absolutely proven that this option is not arbitrary but responds to objective elements. Mr. Javarra, you said about the law of Mr. Mitsotakis, that it is a miracle of law-making and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u220	Monument.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u221	Political Monument. You know where well that in politics, economy and football everything is judged by the result. And the result of Mr Mitsotakis was only two hundred thousand redundancies in his term of office and a total of only three hundred seventy thousand redundancies in the Greek State since 2010. So three hundred seventy thousand in total from 2010 to 1915 and on Mr Mitsotakis, two hundred forty thousand. You said about the interview. And you said that there should be impartiality and transparency. The interview...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u222	The Scientific Committee of the Parliament said so...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u223	The criteria of the interview, Mr. Javarra, are in principle...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u224	The Scientific Service says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u225	Everyone says so. We say so, too. We discussed the interview with Bill 4369 on the Staff Register. We said what it is. Questions are pre-agreed, they are the same to all the candidates, questions and answers are recorded in the minutes and the final decision is sufficiently reasoned. What better do you want for a judicial authority to have in front of it the document on which the appeal will be brought, the appeal will be assessed and the court will finally decide? And we go to Mr. Athanasios, who chose the best part of the bill, articles 20-23 of the conflict of duties, and said that they are suffering from unbelievable clandestineness. I should first like to invoke the lawyers of the other parties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Mr President. If one does a little research and pay attention to the texts of the European Union, the European Parliament and the OECD, it will see that these four articles are in many instances copying and transferring those of European, international and international organisations. Is it possible for Mr Athanasios to say that this is suffering from unbelievable clandestineness? First of all, the definitions: What is a qualitative interest, what is a conflict of tasks? It may not be the OECD definition, but it is a combination of the OECD definitions and the European Parliament, because that is where we refer and all the incompatibilities that exist are transported. And you want me to tell you something extra about this? The conflict of tasks today is gaining ground not only at the level of States, but also at the level of banks and businesses. Here I have documents before me - I will give them to an intervention which I shall make - of the 'Alpha Finance': a policy to identify and manage conflicts of interest. Even the banks now find that their employees leave the bank the next day and are hired by a private body that competes with the bank itself. Can I tell you about the Commissioner of Competition of the European Union, who was at the same time a Commissioner involved in the Bahamas in an offshore company that competes with the interests of the Competition Committee? Should I say about Baroz? This issue of conflict of interest is constantly gaining in both Greece and the European and international territory, and is doing the bill very well today. I shall close with one last point, Mr President, if we cannot agree today on two things. First: The maliciousness of the administrative machine in Greece from '50 to today. Were there any attempts to improve? Clearly. They were incomplete after all. So it turned out to be at least and I told you to see what it was doing. No substantial effect. I don't care about S.H.I.E.L.D. I exclude the pan-Hellenic exams and other institutions, which have actually served and embraced by Greek society, because they ensured democracy and transparency. You should see that this bill here is the fourth in order of intervention that we made as a government of SYRIZA in administrative maliciousness. The first was the issue of political empowerment and citizens' rights to public administration, it was e-government, it was the Register of Officials, the evaluation and selection of heads, and it is coming today to lock and touch the previous bills. So don't say that everything is being fragmented and has no comparison with the previous ones. They've got lots. That's how you have to look at it and that's how we all have to deal with it. It is therefore necessary to take steps on the administrative machine. I believe that this is only the beginning, at least since Mrs Gerovas' term in the Ministry, because we have a lot to do and a lot to say about the public, because the Greek public expects an improvement in the quality of service. And you know what? We had a conversation, and there was a lot of talk: what is the public, what is it? Is it bad because you say it's costly and has a lot of civil servants? No national or European or international study shall render malnutrition neither to the large number of officials nor to the cost-effective. Do you know where it works? In the poor and very low quality provision of services to society and its citizens and its inefficiency. These two are. So these two are being called today to cover and restore.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u226	Good, Mr. Lappa. Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Excellency from SYRIZA, I would like to say that, as we had heard before, we would conclude today's sitting on Mr Kyriazides. Because Mr. Fotellas would be the first speaker tomorrow, and because tomorrow he has an unsettled obligation, something extraordinary happened to him, he asked to speak tonight, so we will close today's sitting with Mr. Fotilla. It adds another speaker. Here, Mr. Excellency, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, merit, equality, transparency, voluntary nature, these are the general principles governing the new public mobility system. Colleagues, I reject the abuse of parentheses as an evasion, disorientation and refuge of the one who has nothing to say about the present and the future. However, reasoned refuge in the past can be useful, it can enlighten the present and it can also reveal the size of political hypocrisy and political affliction that is stumbling up the positions of today's Officership. So I will give in to the temptation. I am referring to the very recent past and to Mr Mitsotakis' notorious evaluation system, which, for the good fortune of the public administration, has not been able to implement as Minister for Administrative Reform. His avenger and completely unfair way of working against those officials who had to take a low degree, not because they did not pay for their work but because this was the case by the legislator, it is a monument of analgesia, cynicism and outrageous arbitrariness. We all know that, the only criteria for selecting persons in positions of responsibility from the sectionary to the Secretary-General were party identity and political opinions with few exceptions, of course, as an ashes in the eyes. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: how many times have we all accepted citizens who are asking to be transferred to their homes for economic and family reasons or to another service for reasons of professional development? How many working hours are lost to complete transfer cases from Ministry to Ministry and how many signatures are required before the final decision ends in FEK? Has one of us calculated what is the cost in terms of public money to complete a single transfer? What was missing all the previous years from the public administration, dear and dear colleagues, was a series of integrated legislative reforms that gave answers to the current citizens' need for immediate service and transparency from a service and the employee for meritful and fair evaluation and development without being a commitment to the service where she was recruited. Today's Mobility Legislation is only one of the tools for better staffing the public sector. It comes to be added to the National Register of Officials of the Public Administration just a few months ago. With these instruments and two other legislative interventions under way - the branch and digital organograms - the government relieves the public administration of the existing pathogens, while at the same time reorganising it by modernising it by modernising it: the new system of assessment, which does not function avengeably to civil servants but gives them an incentive to improve them. The new system of promotion and selection of heads, which is coming to fill a large gap and provide transparency, merit and efficiency, which have been missing all these years from the public administration. In combination with the change of the branch and digital organograms form the core of modernization and transparency in the public sector. Thanks to the digital organigrams, the structure of each service, the organic positions of the members of the staff, the vacant posts to be covered, but also the skills that manage it with the contour of each job, will be posted on the central websites of the services and will be accessible at any time by any interested party. For the first time, the transfer of staff will take place in the light of the best use and rational distribution of human resources in the public services. The smooth operation of the services during the transition to the new system is absolutely guaranteed and employees are not surprised. For the first time, account is taken of important kinetic parameters such as moving employees to their place of interests, based on family needs, choices and needs that have been intensified by the crisis. For the first time, the movement of officials to their place of interest will not result from a customer network and opaque procedures, as usual, as there will be a continuous flow in the call for positions in services in all the countries of the world, and it will in fact be applied in three circles of each year. For the first time, care is taken for spouses who serve in any public service, even if neither is a uniform. For the first time, the comparative assessment procedure of the applicants applying for the same status is applied, thus ensuring the actual correlation between the staff member’s capabilities and the organic position requirements, without any other mediation. The candidates’ evaluation criteria are as follows: the relevance of their formal and substantive qualifications to their claim, their evaluation reports, their experience in relevant subjects and any element of their personal register that substantiates their suitability. The Central Mobility Committee will be able to redistribute staff from bodies with an excess to institutions with a need. But the innovations of this bill do not stop here. Despite the fact that since 2001 the draft law on electronic signature has been implemented and since 2011 the e-government bill, so far no government has made provision for the necessary legal framework for the adoption and management of decisions and actions by the administration to be made electronically among the public bodies. By applying this law and based on the 2014 study, more significant financial savings of EUR 400 million per year are achieved. If one takes into account that from 2001 until today the Greek State has continued to issue and move the forms in paper form, it is immediately aware of the destruction of many billions of euros that could have been saved. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by stressing a very important provision that is passed within this bill and relates to the final solution that comes after many years of uncertainty and hollow promises from previous governments to the workers of the Electro-mechanical Kem, the Epirus Metal Industry and the Greek Vehicle Industry. In particular, care shall be taken to ensure that within the shortest period of the publication of the law they can be transferred to public bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, this government and the majority of the Parliament are moving tirelessly and quickly towards reforms, for the benefit of the public interest and the rationalisation of the state and its mechanisms. No matter how many obstacles you are going to put in, no matter how much undermining you are doing, no matter how much lies and propaganda you move, no matter how much power you mobilize to block this course, the much-needed change in the way the public administration operates will be achieved for the benefit of the people and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u228	Mr. Pratsol has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think we all live in this country. In Greek reality over the last decades it has been generally accepted that the public sector is suffering. Many refer to pathogens, distortions, unequal distribution of employees, total lack of evaluation, structures and staff, favorableism and much more. However, a common secret, unforgettable, is also the fact that all of this is not due, in particular, to failures and omissions, but to choice, a decisive option, which now serves years to build and consolidate a controlled, sounding-out mechanism that maintains and reproduces favored and heirs. It also maintains, instead of slimming red tape, preventing citizens from having effective access to public services. All this hypocrisy due to the purposes of the previous government has emerged when the matter tripped to the Memorandum Requirements and the need to rationalise the system, under which the public administration operated in the country. In the short-sighted sense of the person, they decided that the problem was the size of the public, ignoring the quality characteristics, and proceeded to availability and, in practice, mobilisation, which was nothing but a precursor of redundancies, heavyly putting the axe on the right and wrong. I will mention only two characteristic examples, selecting from the number of incidents that have occurred in this gloomy period. In a ministry they abolished the Mechanical TEs industry without evaluation, while employees were already identified with fake high school graduations that they were trying to rescue. Even more indicative is the creation of an administrative authority, which after the appointment of the President and the members of the Board of Directors, has been rebaptised as an independent administrative authority, obviously to overcome the intention of the increased majority required for the appointment of its members and then have administrative and financial independence. For its establishment in 2011, he stepped into an inactive law of 2004, seconded employees, required a large number of legislative interventions, by way of derogation from existing provisions, in unrelated bills, to bring it to their measures, while gaining responsibility only in 2013. Today, it still has no approved organograms, it still operates with secondment - but only a year is required for secondment - and all organic positions are empty and it manages huge amounts. This is the Committee on the Supervision and Control of Games. Against this toxic environment, the current government has already provided examples of writing with previous bills, evaluation of structures and officials, the Register of Officials, etc. and continue with this draft law on public mobility, attempting to effectively resolute, promote and exploit human resources, sound and functional distribution to technological upgraders, with the aim of improving the quality of service offered to citizens. It is attempting to reorganise public administration by establishing a new mobility system, a voluntary nature, and modernise the outdated, bureaucratic and time-consuming transfer and distraction system, which serves more customer relations than meets real needs. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law establishes a new uniform system of mobility for civil and administrative officials, permanent and private law of indefinite duration, to cover vacant posts with a purely voluntary character. In this respect, it should be stressed that graduation and wage incentives are given to officials moving from urban centres to border and remote mountain and island areas with a duty to remain in office for at least three years. And, as it has been said, the border region allowance is not cut, as at least that is where the Civic Opposition was concerned. The core is the linking of the services needs with the individual choices of employees. Ladies and gentlemen, the single mobility system is governed by equality, transparency and dignity. The Central Mobility Committee will be responsible for ensuring and ensuring these principles. It is a collective body with increased guarantees of objectivity, impartiality and knowledge. The Central Mobility Committee shall coordinate and supervise the implementation of the Single Mobility System, assess the requests of operators and be supervised by the management of the Digital Organisation of Public Administration. The digital organisational chart will capture the structure of the organisational units, the staffing of public bodies, while recording their human resources. The participation of services in this is a prerequisite for their participation in the new mobility system. The second chapter of the draft law identifies the incompatibilities of persons appointed to positions of responsibility to the bodies of the central administration and the general public sector. Good governance in public administration is thus ensured and conflict of interest avoided. In addition, those persons are incompatible with the activity of the private sector, as well as with the obligation to refrain from energising them in the private sector for two years after the end of their term of office. Finally, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to focus on two very important issues of third chapter. One concerns the provision of Article 24 of this Regulation in the electronic procedure for the adoption and movement of administrative acts and documents in the public sector. This provision will play an important role in the reorganisation of the public sector, since it improves its functionality by putting an end to the dazzling bureaucracy that had to have been dealt with for many years while saving important resources for the Greek State. The second point I would like to make is the provision of Article 40. The time has come to put an end to the suffering and the problems faced by workers in the EIA for years. After several years of uncertainty and many promises from previous governments, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, showing sensitivity to the future of workers, found the best possible solution to ensure a better future for the workers of the EIC and their families. I was particularly impressed by the fact that some people speak in the name of the workers without asking them. Because the factory belongs to this region, our own, we had gone to this factory and we were very well aware of their mood and position. Yesterday the e-mail workers informed that they were in agreement with this provision. It is therefore worth wondering that some claim that this provision creates new unemployment. This is something that really outweighs every man's imagination. Ladies and gentlemen, because we believe that the completeness of the services of the public sector, the flexibility of its structures, but also the democratic and participatory spirit, should be fundamental elements of this, we are prepared to support with all our forces a modern, functional and coherent public sector, encouraging public officials to also contribute to their aptitude and productive reconstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u230	Mrs Kozobol - Amanatidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the few left - the efficient and orderly functioning of the public sector is a great issue. For decades, the establishment of the Greek state has been distorted and much has been written. Tons of paper and a lot of ink have been consumed to identify pathogens to propose solutions. But those who write cannot find solutions to this difficult problem unless there is a political will. The current government voted for Law No.4369/2016 with two main areas, the appointment of executives and the evaluation of public authorities, passed the law on e-government and now as a follow-up, as a link, as the Minister said, comes today's bill on voluntary mobility. It establishes a single system of mobility in public and local government, with a view to reallocating human resources to public services, based on the actual needs of the body and ultimately improving the efficiency of the State and, on the other hand, on the development, improvement and individual development of civil servants and municipal officials themselves. The introduced mobility system is carried out by clear and uniform rules that come to replace a large number of other rules that are opaque, and demonstrable procedures, as any movement or secondment has so far been done. It is based, in principle, on the move of the staff member with his/her own will and on the exceptionally compulsory movement when there are proven urgent staff needs. The state displays its needs to all employees once every four months, three times a year and the employees concerned can choose, they can choose. The Central Mobility Committee set up by the Ministry of the Interior and composed of two members and a member of the Legal Council of the State oversees and monitors the implementation of the single mobility system, thereby ensuring a impartial and transparent crisis, without overlapping the competence of the Boards. Generally all the process of selecting the travellers shall be carried out with binding limits for its completion and with predetermined criteria guaranteeing transparency and impartiality. But this bill also brings something else. It forces those bodies that want to participate in the single mobility system to fulfil two necessary conditions. Firstly, they should have updated their establishment plan in digital form, which will be integrated into the single digital establishment plan of the public administration, which is now being created. Secondly, descriptions, job profiles of each organisation should be drawn up so that the detachee can meet the specifications of the positions to be filled in. It should be noted that so far only three ministries have digitised organograms. In the first part, the bill goes one step below L.4367. With the second part, it complements this law by laying down rules for the final members of the public, recruited by the provisions of this law: Secretary-General of Ministries, Presidents, Vice-Presidents, etc. Conditions shall be laid down which constitute a conflict of interest for such persons in the performance of their duties, as well as after their term of office. Those cases constitute incompatible and those who hold those positions must refrain from specific behaviours. Provisions for the control and enforcement of infringements shall be laid down. The purpose of those provisions is to ensure good governance by persons in positions of high management, by strengthening the integrity of impartiality and by preventing and immediately treating cases of conflict of public tasks and private interests. In the third part of the draft law, there is a very important provision, the provision of Article 24, which amends Article 12 of Law 3979/2011, and provides that all procedures which result in the adoption of administrative acts by public bodies such as the drafting, promotion for signature, signature and other procedures for handling documents within each service are carried out exclusively through information and communication technologies. The compulsory, for the first time, electronic handling of documents reduces bureaucratic structures, saves hours of work, reduces costs, makes public administration more environmentally friendly and, above all, improves transparency in public administration. The distorting construction of public administration and its pathogens do not change from one day to the next, but they do not change and if we do not change behaviour ourselves. It is the state, however, which has the responsibility and the obligation to legislate in such a way that citizens are disciplined in the principles of democracy, transparency and justice and act in compliance with the laws of the state. A sample of such legislation is today's bill. The impoverishment of the pleas of opposition, in order to convince it of its vote, reveals, proves its correctness. The New Democracy is trying to convince us that it was preceded by the legislation on mobility, so there was no need to legislate, meaning the law on public mobility, which merged tens of public enterprises, public bodies were abolished and led to tens of thousands of redundancies. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. They call on the law on non-transparency and impartiality, invoking the interview in the case, which is more interested in a position, because it is supposedly not structured. They forget that in Law4369 we were being called for the interview, even though it was structured at the time. They also forget that by signing a single chief one, one could move around, while the one who had no acquaintance with the supervisor, was lost for a long time in the demonic corridors and in the scratches of opaque bureaucracy. The non-implementation of the law is discounted because of the lack of digital organigrams. No one sees that this is an incentive for actors who want to take part in mobility, to establish organograms and posteriori. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u232	Mrs Karamanlis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. The government brings a bill to the vote for the public administration. It is indeed accompanied by the embassy of the Minister for Transparency and Civic Religion in the State and the end of the customer state. It would be extremely hopeful what the Minister said if they were not absent from the earlier life of this government. And it is worth recalling how the SYRIZA - ANEL government perceives the role of public administration, based on its current activities. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, our economy may shrink, but the state is growing. You continue unsatisfactory to set up new, generally inappropriate state bodies, whose utility runs out to catch a stain on the state chairs, your party-selected ones. However, your ingenuity is impressive. Until Maximos Thessaloniki, you invented to make some of the remaining unarmed and taste a little of the state pie. At the same time, the number of postmasters has exceeded two thousand and with the latest reshaping the number of ministries increased by four and the secretaries by twenty-two. At the same time, of course, you have no suspension of tax burdens on taxpayers. EUR 2.5 billion new taxes is provided for in the budget, which you are bringing for 2017. You may not let society breathe, but apparently, money for relatives and friends is still there. So, in this public administration, which you treat as a party spoil, you are now coming to legislate on modernising it. We will all agree that the Greek public suffers from chronic diseases and decisive interventions are needed, where there could be a common place and a minimum consensus, if, of course, they were to serve the objective of effective reform. You are therefore bringing in a bill, which at its core concerns the mobility of civil servants and you are supposed to implement reforms. In reality, however, you are giving priority to your party pursuits. Mobility is an important tool for a more efficient and effective public administration when it balances between the wishes of employees and the needs of employees. In the present case, mobility is only voluntary for staff and the needs of operators are zero. Top-speaking services, with large volumes of work and public service, Minister, such as JEPs or insurance bodies, how can they be strengthened when mobility has a voluntary form? How can the quality of the services offered to the citizen be upgraded when there is no interest in serving them? In addition, when the organograms of state structures are updated, if some of them occur overnumbered personnel or coverage of 90-95% will depend on their movement into stripped services, on the voluntary offer of employees? Article 5 provides for the setting-up of the Central Mobility Committee, consisting of two members of the AACC, a representative of the Legal Council of the State and four members, which are appointed in many respects on the basis of political criteria and which serve the policies of the Government. As a result, reasonable questions arise for the impartial management of requests. On what criteria, will this committee assess the operators' requests? There is an objective criterion on which the committee' s decision will be based, or it will decide willingly that, for example, one agency needs twenty engineers and the other does not need anyone. No keys to prevent arbitrary, cooking, intervention. The objective criteria are also completely absent in the body of the Host Body referred to in Article 7, which will assess the candidates to cover the position of the specific body. What is the credibility of this committee? Where is transparency and clear rules? How will the most appropriate one be chosen? Unless the aim is to seek the right "pipe", which will promote his request, so that the customer relationship can be built on solid foundations. In addition, the candidate who considers that this committee's decision is unfair to him, where can he apply? How can he exercise the right to object? There is no such possibility. Obviously, the committee has the infallibility and its crisis cannot be called into question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u234	Madam Colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u235	It's not like that, Mr. Lappa. I'm so sorry. One of the conditions you set for the operation of the Single Mobility System is the completion of the organograms, following an evaluation of structures and the preparation of job profiles. A procedure which is very difficult to complete immediately, and which leads to the application of the law being vaguely referred to the future. In fact, you are pretending to implement reforms, which then enter the drawer. Something like that, to remind you, has also happened with the State Executives' Registry. You voted for it in February 2016 and should have operated since July. In 2016 we are a little farewell and the staffing of positions of responsibility is only made by the register of officials of Koumoundouros. You come to the second part of this bill to correct, it is assumed, some omissions about this Staff Register, giving the right to private sector officials to join it and claim positions in the State Mechanism. The way you do it, however, proves, in the most vague way, that you seek exactly the opposite. By setting up a series of counter-incentives, which even touch the relatives of individuals who wish to work at the final state position, you are making it clear that you wish to give a head start to public officials. How can the public sector attract market professionals with high qualifications and work experience when setting so many restrictions and commitments? What successful executive will be assigned a responsibility to the public when he knows that he will not be able to work on his subject for two years after the end of his term of office? All of this makes it difficult and dissuasive to involve the private sector in the register. And, of course, because of your ideas, the public is lacking valuable human resources. In closing, the government brings another bill for the eyes of the world. It introduces a mobility system, whose time horizon is completely in the air. Neither the upgrading and rationalisation of public services promotes nor guarantees dignity. All he does is play on the backs of workers - who really fight - another party game. It aims through rushphetological methods to integrate them into his party client log. However, it will not succeed, because the public officials in the large majority want a public administration that rewards value and labour and, of course, will be free from the diseases of the past. And if we don't make fun of ourselves, you don't give answers about the property. Or it was yours and you didn't pay six years for the corresponding real estate taxes or become yours now, as the Minister said, so you were cheating on the banks when you brought it as a guarantee to get a loan. Of course, the Prime Minister from here, the Stepma, was lying when he said SYRIZA's loans were mortgaged, and in fact you didn't even own the property. The question is simple. We didn't get a convincing answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u236	Mr Koukodemos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u237	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of courtesy, I would like to wish you a "good success" in your new duties, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law on the mobility of civil servants from the public sector is part of the prerequisites for the second assessment. This, ladies and gentlemen, as a first comment, as such a critical draft law on the progress of the second assessment has been put into public consultation last March, it was then put into a public consultation process last July, and it arrives marginally in November 2016 in the House. It took more than nine months for the government to legislate on a bill, which entered the urgency procedure in committee. Of course, we will not have to refer to this point anymore, because we all remember very well the severe criticism that SYRIZA was making of the bills that we introduced in the urgency procedure. But let us go to the essence of the bill, which, in our view, should prioritise the needs of public administration and, by extension, of the citizens. This does not apply to this legislative initiative with the voluntary nature of mobility which, ladies and gentlemen, does not ensure the success of the programme. I explain: we agree that public administration must be effective and functional and be based on key pillars, such as efficiency, functionality of the service, the interests of the citizen and the preferences of employees. These pillars are interlinked, ladies and gentlemen, and one must not outweigh one another in order to achieve the desired result. A second assumption is that there are very labour-intensive services such as IKA, tax, which are not selected by the workers and therefore, with the voluntary nature of the provision, they are at risk of being completely weakened. New Democracy in March 2014 proceeded with a compulsory mobility programme in the public sector, with strong reactions at that time, with many protests, aiming to eliminate the privileged movements of employees from one public body to another. It provided for the control of the movements of officials and the cross-checking of the requirements of the vacant posts in a public service with the qualifications of the staff member, which would have an interest in moving. Furthermore, the AACC had the most important role in ensuring transparency in these movements, which is not currently the case. And we come today, two years later, to discuss a draft law, which lays as a basic prerequisite the desire of the staff member to move, which means that the effectiveness of the system is not guaranteed in meeting the real needs of the services. And I explain: What will happen, ladies and gentlemen, if, with the implementation of this system, public-intensive services, for example, tax, IKA, are weakened? And what if the evaluation of the structures and the new establishment plans result in overnumbers of employees? Will the voluntary nature of the procedure go for a walk, or should there be provision for some cases and compulsory movements? With regard to the famous interview, which SYRIZA fought as an Opposition, on the basis of what mobilization will be made of an official, if more officials so perform? The selection criteria are not transparent, but there are criteria, such as CV, experience and interview. Then, when we brought them, our own process was considered unawares. Today the curriculum and experience and interview returns. The question that was raised by our rapporteur, too, regarding the role of the services councils, must also be answered. Is their role declared, Minister? Yes or no? Ladies and gentlemen, public administration needs good management of its human resources. There are subordinated public services, which will not solve their problem with this bill. There are services that will be judged by targeted recruitment and cannot be expected by the citizen for the voluntary movement of a staff member to be served in a reasonable period of time. We agree to link the skills and skills of employees to their jobs, and this is desirable for a modern public administration, functional and efficient. Before, however, it should be our primary concern to ensure that the civil servant is as efficient as possible and not to wish us to move to specific services. Ladies and gentlemen, the real needs are many. They cannot clearly, at the present economic juncture, cover the recruitment of staff. What we can do is create those conditions, which will lay the basis for a modern functional and, above all, efficient public administration and with this bill, unfortunately, we do not achieve it. There is simply a record of the government's anguish to close one more outstanding one for the evaluation. So under suffocating deadlines and procedures which some people want to close, no new mobility systems can function and we are neither going to modernise nor upgrade public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Koukodemos. Mr Katsafandos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u239	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position on the point that Mr Kokodimos has started. In fact, it is a good question, Minister, how is a bill that is given so much weight, as your rapporteurs have said, a bill that can change the bad functioning of the public sector, a bill that you have brought it into consultation so long, and then you have brought it into public consultation so long that nothing has been done by the previous Minister, to bring it under the urgency procedure, because you think that this bill will be able to reform and create better conditions for the public. I really don't know if you're still well-informed about this bill, which you're bringing today. But everything is done so that we can communicate to manage the situation, to convince the media, to be able to mock the ears of various trade unionists and other members of our party, but also to convince the lenders, to convince the troika that we are implementing all these commitments, which we have made, so that we can finally close the second assessment. You know, however, many times people try to escape reality and often the Prime Minister himself has done so. It has managed to escape the unrelenting reality and the real big problems faced by Greek citizens. But the time will come when you will be faced with all this, which has been sowed. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you are two years government. In these two years, then, you come and all you do is blame us when we exercise command. These two years I'd like to ask what you've really done. I would like to see if you have spoken with fellow citizens in your constituency and you have been told that in these two years the public sector has been working better. I, across Piraeus and on the islands in which I am dealing, have not found a fellow citizen who has told me that the services of the public sector have been modernised, go better, that our fellow citizen finds a better deal. Neither do you. Nevertheless, the only thing you do, my colleague, is to blame for what we have done in the past and for doing nothing else, like the register of directors. I would like to tell you this: in everything that has to do with the Staff Register, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA said it would be ready in June. Unfortunately, however, nothing happened. Something similar will now be done, Minister, with the legislation you bring, and that is what the provisions, which you will bring, and which are very demolished. So, what about the Staff Register? You continue to appoint your party friends. You continue to appoint friends, relatives, best man. You continue to appoint all those who have followed you to this disaster, which you have brought to the country. Then we warned you. We told you it wouldn't work. We were also telling you that with the exclusion you are doing from the private sector and putting only civil servants into service, this will not work efficiently for the jobs you are planning for them. So now, after the troika pressure, you come to review what we have been talking about. But you come in a false way, because there are too many stumbling blocks and difficulties, so that nobody can and does not want any private sector to take part in positions of responsibility for the good of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, the public administration and the public services are indeed experiencing huge problems, due to the lack of staff, because of the economic difficulty in which the country is located, because of the lack of computerisation and all this has an impact on society, the economy, the citizens and entrepreneurship in general. An employee mobility system, therefore, in order to be operational and effective, should be based on three assumptions: to take into account the effectiveness and efficiency of public administration, the interest of citizens and to balance and listen to the preferences and abilities of officials. However, this bill cannot function under that logic, because, unfortunately, you are legislating and placing the voluntary decision of the staff member to be transferred and moved as the only condition. So, as you can see, it cannot work, because the moves, the voluntary movement, the movement and the secondment, if you like, which could have been a really useful tool for managing human resources, it also needs a grid of incentives and preconditions, which you seem not to want to anticipate. Provision should be made for continuing education and retraining of employees, all staff, incentives, personalization of wages and the reward of employees' performance. To say this in a simple word, the evaluation needs to be implemented, which, when you hear it, unfortunately you never want to apply it. So this is the big problem of the legislation, which you bring and you know it will not really work. The New Democracy has made proposals. He told you what has to do with Article 5, which provides for the setting-up of the Seven-Seven Central Mobility Committee, not only two members through ASP and a representative from the State Legal Council. He told you, instead of putting four parties of yours from the state machine, instead of two, to be three members of the ADP to be even more objective. You refused, because this bill also finds it an opportunity to satisfy and settle your party executives. With regard to the selection procedure referred to in Article 7, a three-member body consisting of a Head of Directorate-General and two Heads of Directorates-General, directly linked to the post declared, shall be carried out. They are, then, who will judge the right one. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, what criteria? Through an interview that won't be structured? How can you, Minister, respect the dignity of this procedure? I would like to remind you that for the interview you had accused the previous governments and the New Democracy of being the weapon, so that we could operate in anxiocratic terms. Finally, I would like to raise a very serious issue, Minister. I agree with what has to do with the provisions, which have to do with MEDA and co-service. I would, however, like to see why you are redefined the percentage of special categories in terms of multiple families and you are downloading it from 20% to 15%. I cannot understand what this is about, in a country which is plagued by ingenuity, which is the demographic problem, and why, while the proportion of third-country families is increasing, the percentage of multitude families is falling. This really is a great contradiction, which I would like you to explain. In conclusion, I would like to draw your attention to an amendment which we have tabled and which has to do with the inequality which exists between workers in the local authorities and other civil servants. With this bill, we should no longer have two-speed employees and all employees have the same obligations, but also enjoy the same benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u240	Mr. Kyriazidis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u241	Madam Minister, you are very sympathetic to me, and I wish you all the best. Ladies and gentlemen, some time ago, the President of SYRIZA confessed from the Step of the House that he had a delusion at the expense of the Greek people. Today this illusion has been stated, and in fact it has been said that it has been 'conceived' and for a fraud, which of course has to do with Kumundur. SYRIZA's announcement states that ownership was legally transferred to SYRIZA in 2016. Then how did he use as a guarantee to get a loan two years ago? So we have a cannabis fraud and, of course, this will emerge in the next few days and we are also obliged to show it in a way so that the Greek society can see what is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u242	If you'd even given some money for the loan, it'd be fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u243	I know it hurts you. For the sixteen years, of course, we will see how this was done and why the statutory taxes, as is the case with every taxpayer, Mr Lappa, have not been paid. Minister, because I come from a border region, since April, the public officials have been in anguish regarding the allowance of border regions granted with a circular, and the fear is whether those granted to them from April to today are being retroactively called for backwards. There is a need for legislation, Mr Lappa, to get to know each other! With regard to the bill, the mobility of civil servants, a process which must run through a modern and efficient public administration, must comply with certain minimum rules, namely those of objectivity, transparency, suitability, necessity and the protection of the public interest, thereby ensuring the smooth functioning of all the administrations and bodies involved. In this context, this draft law is moving in the wrong direction, presenting untreated legal deficiencies and unconstitutional issues. In particular, my view is as follows: Article 7 provides vaguely for a process of evaluation of the candidates for transfer, without specifying the specific criteria for their assessment as such, but also their quantitative and qualitative classification. In the precise wording of paragraph 3 of that Article for the evaluation, account shall be taken of the relevance of the formal and substantive qualifications, without mentioning what they are, what their gravity, what their ratings are and in any case what the ‘every other evidence’ indicates the suitability of the candidate. This procedure, as described in paragraph 3, is unconstitutional. And that's why? In view of the vagueness of the process of evaluation and of the scope of discretion, which is lacking in the administration, there is no guarantee of respect for the constitutional principles of equality and merit, in particular the free access and career of each official to public posts, on the grounds of his personal value and competence - Article 4(1) and (4) and Article 5(1) of the Constitution - transparency - Article 103(7) of the Constitution - which, in its sense, takes over not only the procedure of entry into the Staff Regulations but also, in general, the procedures for the development of civil servants and therefore also those of the transfer. In view of this, this critical provision is totally problematic. With regard to the interview, as has been legally decided on in administrative proceedings, concerning the service of officials on the choice of candidates, following an assessment of their essential qualifications and their personality, it must be concluded from the information in the file that has been carried out by the competent institution and the data in the light of which it emerged. In particular, where it is foreseen that the assessment of personality, competence and general suitability is carried out by means of an interview of the applicants, it must be carried out in practice. The minutes of the hearing must state, at least briefly, the content of the interview, indicating the questions submitted and the answers given by the candidates. Furthermore, the crisis by the competent body must be individually exposed to the assessment of its presence and in particular its personality and ability. So only, with the existence of a practical interview, the conditions of a non-discriminatory, atrocious crisis are met, which is not foreseen. And the law may provide for specific reasons in the practical choice, but a practical choice without a reasoned and detailed practical interview, as an analysis, is not meant. Therefore, all these procedures, which will be initiated and decided on the basis of the arrangements you bring to the vote, will not stand in court. Irrespective of the above, how will the Agency be updated in accordance with Article 4(1) of the draft law in order to carry out the transfers? What applicable rules, procedures and methods for drawing up them? And ultimately, how will they be drawn up by the services, if there are no guidelines from the legislator? Black darkness! Devices for empty content and no substance, which will in practice never be applied. Because of the least time available to me, I am forced to confine myself. We come directly to the provision of Article 18(3) and (4). [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, these purely characteristic arrangements are an unprecedented impulse, passing both on to society and the Public Service Body a wrong message. And what's that? The opacity, the nepotism, the old party establishment. While you are supposed to be introducing criteria and rules for transfers and distractions by this bill, you are now coming to dismiss yourself and you are bringing it to the vote. In fact, is it possible for all of you and everyone here not to understand how many seconded persons will, at their request, be transferred to the service temporarily posted and, indeed, to a common position of the same or higher class, solely on the basis of the accidental fact that at the time the law is published they are in this position? So, why are you legislating the basic provisions of this draft law and undoing them before they are even implemented? And really, where is transparency, suitability and the idea of mobility following evaluation here? Why do you exclude other civil servants from applying? Why do you bewilder those who are already serving by secondment? What is the reason in the public interest that is capable of destroying transparency, dignity and objectivity? This provision must be withdrawn, since you deprive other civil servants of the opportunity to compare them with those who are now seconded and to understand the position. This is the left, unfortunately, of democracy and transparency! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u244	And the last speaker is the Independent MEP, Mr Fotillas. Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, good luck in your difficult task. Ladies and gentlemen, things are clear with this bill of Government SYRIZA - ANEL on public mobility. I'm going to be more specific, through ten brief questions. Question 1, was it, and is it, a fundamental reform of the state and public administration necessary to get out of the long-standing crisis? Answer: Apparently, yes. Question 2: Is it a top choice to achieve the above objective of conflict with the public's pathogens, with its full partyisation and bureaucracy first?Answer: Obviously, also yes. Question 3, is the government making progress with the legislation on mobility the necessary changes? Answer: Clearly not. At best, it refers them to an endless and undetermined future, without a specific timetable for implementation. At the worst, it will fully monitor the process through the suffocation control by the Minister and by the officials of the Ministry. Question 4: How could the process have been made sooner and more rationally? Answer: by adopting the digital establishment plan of the public, in which the structure and staffing of all public-funded bodies and bodies will be fully reflected. First of all, you learn who you are, how many and what employees you have to serve quickly and properly citizens and businesses, and then you deal with the issue of mobility, which is what needs you need to meet by moving even under mandatory conditions. I specifically proposed it in the context of the discussion of the draft law on the establishment of a staff register from February 2016 to the then Minister, Mr. Bernardakis. Question 5: Does the government really want to reform the public? Answer: Of course not, since her wishes are the continuation and further consolidation of the customer state. And how does he do that now? In the Central Mobility Committee, the representatives of the Government will be four, while only three of the State’s Legal Council and not at least the vice versa, as it should be, will be in order to ensure elementary objectivity. Moreover, the Host Body among the three candidates for the transfer of staff will be chosen essentially, without objective criteria from the Minister and from the Ministry's staff, who will be relocated or seconded. In fact, the committees will decide, without specific molecules criteria, what clearer than that, to understand the new form of a client state built by the SYRIZA - ANEL? Question 6: What does the SYRIZA - ANEL Government actually achieve with this bill? Answer: Not only did she not keep her promise - and when did she keep it? - for the operation of the registry since June 30, 2016, but also puts the cart in front of the horse. In other words, while he admits that he does not yet know where he has subordinated services and where surplus personnel, he starts mobility and talks abstractly about digital organograms. Question 7: But can the government believe that this bill will be implemented? Answer: Obviously, he does not believe it, because if he believed it, he would not bring it to the vote last minute with the urgent procedure, and he has taken it out in consultation since July 2016. Question 8: Then why does it, in addition to the need to comply with the Troika, not to do so alone? Answer: Why, obviously, on this malfunctioning canvas in the public wants to keep the customer relationship between an official and a minister, which he will basically arrange for who will go and where. Question ninth: We fell from clouds with these regulations in public? Answer: Of course not. This is not the first time that this government has acted in this way. For example, the general secretariats you have created. The Samara - Venizelou government was forty - nine, seventy - four on the Tsipra - Kammenos government. Not to say about the army of posted officials and non-ACP recruits, which exceeds twenty-seven thousand in your two-year government, when society is really despaired by the tax-payer it imposes and the government will reinvigorate from the beginning of the year. Question tenth and last: What can we do? Answer: An appeal to the government to resign, to see if something can be done and saved in our Greece. For all these reasons, I am voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its reports to the public prosecutor's requests for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against MPs. The Minutes of Monday 3 October 2016, Wednesday 5 October 2016 and Friday 7 October 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u247	The Minutes of Monday 3 October 2016, Wednesday 5 October 2016 and Friday 7 October 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-24-S2-commons.u248	With the agreement of the House at no time of 23.53' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 25 November 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work; (b) ongoing discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction: "The Single System of Mobility in Public Administration and Local Government; (b) the obligations of the persons appointed in the positions of Articles 6 and 8 of Law No.4369/2016; and incompatibility and prevention of conflicts of interest and other provisions".
