ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, we shall begin the sitting. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 17 June 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Papaliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food concerning the ‘Hadjigaki package’ and the decision of the European Court of Justice to recover the sum of 327 million. Euros as illegally paid to Greek farmers in 2008 and 2009. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 987/13-6-2016, a topical question by the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the possibility of a 60% reduction in the pension of farmers, in accordance with Article 20 of the new insurance bill. 3. The 991/13-2016 topical question by F Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PAO.K. - P.M.A. Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiu to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the need for assistance with staff of the First Police Directorate of the Dodecanese. 4. The Question No 1003/14-6-2016 by Congressman Pireos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Health on the operational problems of the anti-cancer hospital "METAXAS". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Aitolokarnania of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafylou, to the Minister for Environment and Energy, concerning the immediate treatment of the water supply problem of the Atolian Aitolakarnania. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 988/13-6-2016 by MP I Piraeus, Nea Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the correction of the administrative boundaries of the island of Agios Georgios and its place in the Municipality of Hydra. 3. The question by No 986/13-6-2016 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Health, on the redundancies of OKANA officials in Patras. 4. The question under number 1004/14-6-2016 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning measures to meet the thousands of needs of teachers for the new school year. 5. Under number 1000/14-6-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the financial consequences of the procedural inactivity. 6. The question by number 996/14-6-2016 of the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the reading of the Gospel on the day of the Holy Spirit in Agia Sophia. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 8. The current question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the problems of nursery and childcare stations. 9. O by No 967-7-6-2016 a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy about the strike of the port workers at the Piraeus Port Organisation (PO). 10. The Question No 953/6-2016 by the Independent MEP, Mr. Eftathios Panagoulis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the costs of the "deputies of the institutions" in the public sector. 11. The Question No 899/23-5-2016 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Health, concerning the exclusion of Volos hospital from the ESRB programme. 12. The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Under number 891/23-5-2016, a topical question by the Independent MEP II of Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of State regarding the ‘private promotion of specific MPs and journalists from private and state channels’. 14. Observed. The question under number 859/13-5-2016 of the Greek MP, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the lack of political will of the Government to improve road safety in line with the objectives of the European Strategy and the National Plan for 2020. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of its Rules of Procedure). (Parliament adopted 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the exclusion of Crete from the new roadmap of Greece. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about measures to relieve the affected in the Municipality of Ierapetra from the destructive fire and the proclamation of the region as a fireman. 3. Mr Leonida Gregorakos' question to the Minister of Finance about the compensation of the shareholders of cooperative banks. 4. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health about the problems in the operation of the surgical rooms of the General Hospital of Elefsina "Thrias". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First will be discussed by the number 982/13-6-2016 fifth time question by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Ministers of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence, on the conditions for hosting refugees in Koutsochero Larissa. Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. As you said, Mr President, the question concerns the unacceptable and dangerous conditions for hosting refugees in the Koutsochéro area outside Larissa. At the moment it concerns a number of some eight hundred refugees. Among them, of course, there are too many children. Wholesalely calculated, about 40% of refugees are children. They all live in scenes, completely inappropriate, in a formerly characterized camp. This place is dangerous. That's what we want to show. Not only that, but one of the main issues is that he's dangerous because of his proximity to an active quarry. The living problems faced by refugees are many, especially in the summer season with high temperatures, which are becoming intolerable, but also poses enormous risks to people's health. Also, sharp and dangerous for their lives is the problem of occurrence in reptile camps, such as snakes, and scorpions. Also, there is no continuous, organised and 24-hour health coverage or a record of the patient, so that the necessary measures can be taken. Sanitary infrastructures - toilets, showers etc. - on the one hand, and on the other, even existing repairs are needed. The feeding provided through the two catering companies, according to and according to the complaints of refugees, is not of good quality, while there is no special feeding for pregnant, children, diabetics, etc. At the same time, there has been no care, as far as children are concerned, for their vaccinations and for the creation of places of creative employment and education for children. All this is some of the problems that refugees face in the camp, while, of course, it is the question of their promotion in other countries of choice, as they themselves are asking, and their decapitation from Greece. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Therefore, the issues that go to the Minister, Mr President, are as follows: As long as refugees are accommodated in this camp - not only in this camp, but also in general - we say that they should be transferred to another safe camp, suitable for the infrastructure they need and necessary. Furthermore, measures and interventions should be taken in order to address the risks posed and present, to improve situations and circumstances;
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u3	All right, you've got the dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u4	Also, there should be room for children, for creative employment and for their education, for their transfer to Larissa, for interpreters to be made available, etc. Alongside these measures to address the problems of refugees' living, the issue of procedures for the exercise of rights of international protection, such as asylum, subsidiary protection, family reunification, and the overthrowing of decisions that imprison refugees and immigrants in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, too, Mr. Lambroulis for his question. I think - and I have told the House before - that the issue of managing the refugee problem is not an issue that is appropriate for confrontation between the democratic forces of this Parliament. It is a difficult issue, which we are trying to manage. However, everyone must recognise that at international and internal level - and I have had the opportunity yesterday to see it in France, by discussing with my counterpart the French State Secretary - we are being congratulated, knowing the positions and difficulties he has in this matter. So there can be no, one would say, some kind of opposition. Of course, the remarks are accepted each time. To overthrow the decisions on the possibility of establishing a legitimate way of moving towards the countries that refugees themselves want, I would say, to go, is an issue of international, foreign and diplomacy. These decisions have, in particular, been made by the state of Skopje and some of the Visegrad countries. I don't know what other procedure would be beyond that. So that's what we're working on. More specifically now for the Koutsochochero, you need to know that the former Camp Authiopoulos, the inactive Camp Authiopoulos, was created from the first, when the borders were closed. I, too, have often said that the installation has always had the role of temporaryity. So it was something that, together with Katsika Ioannina and two - three other camps that we have mentioned by name, in our programme is to reconstruct themselves in other ways. What I want to say about it now. First of all, I say that our immediate programme is refugees and immigrants living in Koutsochéro, being transferred to the camp of Ziga, which has been in Kyflochori for two months. Also, in our program is to reconstruct Koutsochero on the basis of the Red Cross's Memorandum of Cooperation with the Red Crescent, which has contributed greatly to the Ministry of National Defence, with appropriate structures, i.e. with housekeepers and all procedures relating to pharmaceutical care, etc. Let's not forget that Qutsohero was mainly refugees who were precedents in the ROKA warehouse in Larissa or the Trikala Fortress. And here I would also like to thank the two mayors publicly, along with the district manager, because they have made a lot of contribution to the management of this issue in relation to your specific questions. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] So the procedures, the conditions in which they live at the moment are going to change, which is essential. As far as feeding is concerned, I have to tell you that the feeding programme is defined in a way by experts from the Armed Forces and provides for special nutrition for infants, children, patients and special categories. So, as far as these issues are concerned, your information is probably wrong. Secondly, indeed one of the two companies that have taken over the feedingstuffs has been subject to infringements, and I would mention one - one - one -: on 20 April there has been a slight change in some portions. On April 30, the temperature of the food was less than 60 degrees and on May 5 the portion of the food was less than normal. In view of these circumstances, the competent Committee of the Armed Forces, which identified them, has requested the DU Larissa to impose a fine. Of course, we recalled the company itself in order. Finally - and whatever else I need to say in dentistry - regarding health support, there is a military health support department at the hospitality centre. At the same time, the fifth Health Region of Thessaly, the Greek Red Cross, the Medical Association of Larissa and the Doctors of the World with a mobile medical office, also helps at the same time. All this will, of course, be solved once a temporary but more stable structure is formed. At this point, Mr Lambroulis, I would like to tell you that we often work between what needs to be done on the one hand and the pressure from local actors and local actors, as is currently being done in the Municipality of Tempus. But that is where I think we can find a common solution. On the contrary, in the Municipality of Aspropyrgos or in the Municipality of Vonitsas there are many problems that mayors themselves raise. For this reason, in the next few days I will also address the CEDEFOP Bureau on the one hand and the President of Parliament on the other hand in relation to letters sent by the mayors, because they have a certain attitude. But sometimes everything depends on the refugee themselves. I must tell you that, at the moment, there are refugees who need to relocate, but they are refusing. There are well-known problems, some of which are written by the newspapers and which we are of course resolving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to the Minister. The demand for a peak, if you like, of the local players, of the municipality and of the labour centre, but also of other operators who frequently visit the camp to offer what they can, the solidarity of the people of the region with the refugees, is relocation, the change of space, that is, Minister. This means that also housekeepers, the place remains a cranial place. If you have gone there, especially those days, or days of summer, you will find that the conditions are unacceptable. You can't stay under the sun for an hour. And homes through the Red Crescent, etc., that can come in again will not solve this particular problem. I will not go into the other problems because they refer to the question. You referred to someone too. What we are putting as the first in the management of this area in relation to this number of refugees is that. Of course, regardless of any intentions and efforts that are being made, it is clear that it is not possible for anyone in such circumstances to live and have a good time. And it certainly cannot be an excuse for the problems that exist in the camp in Koutsochore, Larissa, but also in other refugee camps in our country, the fact, as some people say, that in their countries too - because they are heard and they are also there - not only in us up, but in other regions and you know them - the conditions of life were bad and therefore they are learned. And so they can stand up to the conditions of the camps. Furthermore, it is not true that with their will they have fled their homeland, and so they are not now entitled to complain, as some and relevant bodies there claim, either from ignorance of reality or from xenophobic and nationalist racism, which is cultivated in our country by known and unexplained. The refugee problem from its creation, namely the decision of thousands of people to leave their country, until its administration has certain causes: on the one hand, the interventions and wars which the United States, NATO, the European Union, with the participation of our country, in the wider region, the Middle East, the Eastern Mediterranean, North Africa, in competition with other forces, such as Russia, etc. On the other hand, what makes it considerably difficult to manage the problem is the disgraceful bargain between the European Union and the Greek Government in the ruling class of Turkey, which not only solves the problem, but on the contrary exacerbates the conditions of caging and repression for even more refugees and immigrants. And what is proven every day - and here too must come to conclusions - is that there cannot be a solution or even a relief of the problem as long as the imperialist interventions and wars continue in the region, as well as the fact that the specific decisions of the European Union and NATO remain in force. As a Communist Party, we consider it a crucial element, from the point of view of the working people's movement, to demand relief and support measures for refugees to secure open human hospitality areas with all the necessary infrastructure and services, for as long as they are staying in Greece, and at the same time to demand that they be transported immediately under the responsibility of the State and the UN in their countries of destination. So we consider the fight against the causes to be an integral part, namely the imperialist war, but also the rotten exploitive system that bears it. And this struggle is, in our view, an integral part of solidarity with refugees. And in this direction we call on the people to step up their fight for retaliatory action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u9	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr Lambroulis, some of the objections you raise as arguments, for example, how they are used to live in their own countries...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u11	They're not ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u12	No, that's not what I'm saying. You mentioned them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u13	They shall be recorded by the visits to the premises and by the operators.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u14	I guess you're not referring to us. Now, if there are any others...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u15	If we were to have referred to you, we would have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u16	Secondly, I think you should recognise that leaving here and going elsewhere is not an argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u17	Is that what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u18	That's what you said and you're writing it. That's not an argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u19	You're twisting what I said. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u20	I, as you can see...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u21	We are asking for another suitable space to be chosen. That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Lambroulis, there's no reason for tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u23	But that's not tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u24	I tell you this very simple thing, which you immediately mentioned again: find another suitable space. How can I tell you? What do I mean by "other"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u25	Have you been to Quechochero? Did you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u26	I am afraid, Mr Lambroulis, that you are giving your attention to the fact that you have not gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u27	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Lambroulis, there's no need for tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u29	How have I not gone? What are you talking about? You talk without knowing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u30	I don't understand the tension. We're trying to get together, and you're asking me if I've gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u31	It's a question. Have you been?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u32	All right, you've both gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u33	You know that the newspapers in Larissa, the Larissa websites, many times they have written that I have visited Koutsochero, that we have seen the problems closely, that we have resolved some of the issues, issues relating to protection, etc. ........................................ I say this very simple thing: at the moment we are all dealing with a matter together. That's what I want. All of us together. And I inform you that I have read the speech of the minority representative on the Tempus municipal council, with which I fully agree, namely the People's Confederacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u34	Koutsochochero belongs to the Municipality of Larissa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u35	No, I'm talking about the City of Tempes. Kypelochori belongs to the Municipality of Tempon. And in Cyllochori...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u36	We're talking about Quechochero.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u37	You're not watching me, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u38	Please, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u39	We're talking about this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u40	It says about the People's Confederacy, obviously a party on the JRC, in another area, which expressed some opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u41	For that particular one to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u42	The People's Symbol made a placement on the Tempes City Council. I repeat that in the next period the Quechochero will evacuate. The six hundred sixty people will be transferred to Camp Ziga, which is located in Kyfelochori to the Municipality of Tempon. With the agreement with the Red Cross and the Red Crescent, Koutsochochero will be rebuilt and made sustainable. There'll be a medical establishment inside, there'll be training procedures. He'll have all these procedures. We need to do this thing a month and a half. That's what I'm saying. And then we'll come to Trikala at the same time. That's the process. I say that solidarity and fear - and I do not say it for you, I say it for those voices that are heard in various places - are not compatible concepts. They're not compatible concepts. We all have to work together to solve this. I've answered my prototype to your individual. With regard to saying that Koutsochero is not the right place, I must remind you that on 16 March the Ministry of Interior asked all the municipalities in the country to propose spaces. I wouldn't say that's the ideal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u43	And the decision of the Larissa City Council on this particular site of the Evriopoulos camp was negative, precisely for these reasons we are presenting in the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u44	You keep going, Mr. Lambroulis. The response of the Municipality of Larissa, which is too good, or would a Municipal Council say to move the village of Koutsochero, which is right next door? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u45	Is that what you understand? What else can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u46	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u47	I think we're intelligent, and we understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u48	That's not how to talk! Minister, please come to your conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u49	Hey, we're not intelligent! What are you saying? Is the Quechochero getting out of there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u50	The particular area that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u51	I'm not going to move the question. Mr. Lambroulis, I don't know if you came here just to create tension. I'm not trying to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u52	How do we do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Bright, that's not how it works. That's not how it works! Finish, Minister, to calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u54	It's causing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u55	I don't know what you mean by provocation. I mean, the issue of the management of the refugee is a challenge, and that is what we are working on. From that point on, if we start playing - if we are sorry for the expression - not among ourselves, throughout Greece, the courgettes, 'not to come here, because there is a particular thing, go elsewhere, etc.', that is what you understand, is not a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u56	Put a perfect one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u57	We're on the other side...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u58	The peculiarity has to do with the prevailing conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Lambroulis, the Minister said he would evacuate for a while to make the camp better. If the answer does not satisfy the next question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u60	So, if in the desert instead of a tent, you solved the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u61	All right, Mr. Lambroulis, go to the people of Koutsochochore and the inhabitants of the other villages and tell them that they live in the desert. Leave that thing now. Controversy about confrontation? We are trying, and that is what we will try for the rest of the time, to form necessary consensus. Many times I have to tell you that we have retreated from things just so that tension does not arise. On this road we will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u62	We're done. Thank you, Minister, for the presence. We go to the fourth with No 969/8-6-2016 top-level question of the first-round question of the Achaias MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the appointment of the Secretary-General. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor for two minutes, I suppose in calmer waters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u63	It depends, Mr President, on the answers. Sometimes they violate logic and conflict with reality, you know. We're all calm, but we need to understand what we say every time. Mr President-in-Office, first of all I would like us to agree on something. I would like to propose today - I believe you will give me more than thirty seconds, Mr President - to condemn the provocative and dangerous tolerance shown by the government to the phenomena not of social lawlessness, but of violence, such as last night, who went to burn people in trolleys and buses outside the University of Polytechnic. The only thing that happened was the police to see the strangers, some hoodmen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u64	Now go to your question. He has a plenary next.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u65	I will go to my question, Mr President, don't worry. They were cowards, Mr President, who fled to the Polytechnics, and the police looked at them. Let the police do her job. Don't give immunity to these things. You are condemning these phenomena first. It is about social cohesion. It is tragic that the impossibility and tolerance shown by the government and very dangerous. Minister, with Law No.4375 of 2016, we dealt with two days in the House and there, if I remember correctly - and I think I remember - the Democratic Alliance voted in favour of from 82 the 55 articles, voted against sixteen and said 'Paris' to eleven. You told us then that we had to go quickly, because the exceptional circumstances of the refugee crisis demand new structures and the creation of new conditions to deal with a crisis that you are still facing, such as Mr Vitsas, who used to explain whether or not the space is suitable. What happened in the next few days after the law was published? For a month, the only thing you've done is to appoint a Secretary-General without powers. You have replaced the Welcome Commission by the General Secretariat. We told you he didn't need that. What is needed is that there are direct structures in the Ministry and that is a direct response to this crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Not only did you not do it, but it has been seventy-six days to date, Minister, and the only thing we have is an empty shell, we have a service that is not yet set up, we have a Secretary-General who takes his money - it is not personal - but it does nothing else, it has nothing else to do with it. And we finally get to legislate every time as you did provocatively and yesterday, when you came to table an amendment of eighty-five pages, then you withdrew it and yesterday you brought it back with thirty-seven pages, to say what? That there are exceptional circumstances of response to the refugee crisis and we must go quickly. And there's nothing going on after all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And nothing happens, as it turns out, Minister, why? Because seventy-five days have been built in the host's secretariat...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u66	You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u67	I'll be right over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u68	Put it in perfect and questionable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u69	So what I'm telling you is this: Minister, it's not enough to imagine that we're going to make chaos. What we need is to deal with the chaos created by the government and its inertia and its inability to deal with situations. In my dentistry, I'll develop the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Muzalas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u71	I shall try, Mr Papatheodorou, not to respond to low tone, but rather to high tone opposition touches. I will tell you this: First of all, let me tell you that Mr Buddour and the establishment of the General Secretariat are a valuable tool in dealing with the refugee and in a very fast time, thanks to his great experience with other cases - he has dealt with a life, as you know, with these issues - this tool has given results. You are right about bureaucratic matters. You have many years of MP and you know the difficulties of bureaucracy. However, I would like to say to you that it is untrue that it has no competence, because its powers are defined by the law itself, which you have also voted on and, in our view, was a very positive move that you have made. I'll waste time reading them to you. They're detailed and included in the law. Mr Buddhur has made a decisive contribution to dealing with the situation. You said: 'What happened after the publication of the law?'. They closed the border, Mr. Papatheodorou. Sixty thousand people were trapped in Greece. Sixty thousand people in twenty days were caught in Greece. I'm talking to you beyond government, beyond opposition, beyond anything. In two and a half months, the sixty thousand people were settled in very temporary structures, most of which at first were bad, slowly improved, and we have a few bad ones now. This is something that has not been done globally. Sixty thousand people in twenty days mean five hundred and eighty thousand people in Germany, five hundred thousand people in twenty days in France, four hundred and eighty thousand people in Italy. I've been through it and I've been through it many times before. I fear that sometimes, for other reasons, you do not want to hear things that are not false because they appear in international literature. You're all scientists. You can search and find them. I'm not making it up to myself. Mr. Buddouris is valuable. The work he has done is valuable. What we have done to give shape to chaos is very important. The pre-registration has already begun. Two and a half months later, the pre-registration started. In Germany, it takes five and a half months to get in touch with a pre-registration. We have a help from UNHCR too, the agencies are trying to work. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I've been through it many times. The design in September is that bad structures dissolve and become structures like those that Mr. Vits told you before. I think you know all this. I consider the insistence on highlighting defects as a insistence on curing defects. In this sense, then, I will accept the flaws and we will all help together to heal whatever weaknesses there are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u73	Minister, the medicine is probably not the right thing to treat defects. And I will tell you this: what you said before, we also discussed it at the CEDEFOP Conference. I question the evidence you give. Sixty thousand people, yes, were caught in Greece, with a government that was unprepared, without structures, with constant announcements that you would build structures, and never happen. As far as Mr Buddour is concerned, this is not a personal matter. Mr. Buddour, as you say, is a very good tool for your ministry. Well done. I'm not questioning that. In this will judge you, if you like, the Greek people later, whether they are effective or not. What I'm saying is that in the secretariat you've recommended nothing works, Minister. That's the problem. It's not the high opposition tone. I note that with regard to the first request to condemn such phenomena and also the tolerance shown by the government for so long, you have not responded, but that is what you want to be a more general political comment. In the special political remark, Minister, we are not opposition to the opposition. We're oppositioning because you're doing nothing. Because there is currently no effectiveness. You said earlier that in September three of the five structures currently in existence will be stopped and replaced by other more appropriate structures. What are these structures? We know that so far there are two types of provision: those relating to the postponement of departure and the other structures which have to do with the reception of those applying for international protection. Tell us what these structures will be? Where will these structures be? Tell us what you're doing for the placement, not whether the local government has responded positively or negatively, as Mr. Vitch said before. Tell us what the plan is for the next few months. This reception secretariat should have been able to prepare, Mr Minister, for having tabled, debated, justified. So what I oppose, Minister, is that we are opposition to high tones for the opposition. Oh, no. We are oppositioning why what you are doing - and I do not say it personally, I say it as a government, as a ministry - is from inadequate to nonexistent. Because you tell me that we are still giving shape to chaos, and they are the people with forty degrees under the tents, and that in two months' time they will go somewhere else without planning. In addition to the bureaucratic problems you have mentioned, bureaucracy could never be a permanent alibi to the government, because it also touches the officials, Minister. We either have good employees and we support them because they have overcome the bureaucratic problems or the structure that you have built for seventy-five days has so far not produced results. That is why the government is being controlled for not producing results. It's also checked for something else. If what you said before is true, in September some things will have changed, give us a plan, give us your plan. Because so far we do not see a plan, we do not see efficiency and we also see, if you like, a fatalism that chaos is taking shape. In my opinion, Mr Minister, it does not take the form of chaos and the descriptions you are making do not arrive at. What we are asking is for you to make a policy in the field of refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u74	Good, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. You were pretty strict about my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u76	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Papatheodorou, if you were a boxer, you would have beat me! So many hits from all sides are impossible to answer! I'm guessing you're not suggesting I'm into violence or anything. It could be a huge conversation when there was and when there was no tolerance to violence. Let's leave it. However, I agree with you on this. I can't imagine that you're subtracting it to me as a statement about something that my whole life is like that. Listen to me: You're wrong. You are not wrong that bureaucratic printing should already have been done. There's a delay. Where you're wrong is that by relying on it, you're tearing down everything else. That's where I stand. I agree with you that there should be a copy of the things that have been done. I call it paperwork. It could be the wrong word. But you understand what I want to say. So, yes, there's a delay there. That doesn't rescind the substance. It is also not always possible to discuss and say that the government is unprepared. I think you keep saying that. The government reacted critically and did what I told you. See bibliography, ask colleagues from abroad. It's never happened before. That's what I told you in September. Education is being prepared by a committee created by the Ministry of Immigration with the Ministry of Education. One of your colleagues before - I say 'you' because I am not a Member - said about vaccinations. Even in Enormous conditions, the Ministry of Health made seven thousand vaccinations. We're running too fast. Most of the time we make it. There are times when we can't make it. Mr Papatheodorou, I would like to say to you this: the government - you are right - was ready to put in space sixty thousand people. But he did, and he did it in a year when he didn't exist. Can I tell you something? The only thing the government found was two and a half thousand places in pre-regulated pre-regions that are in detention and that is being exploited, but there was nothing there. There was not a single hostage structure and there was no other state in Europe that had not even a hosting structure. In conclusion, I think we have responded well to very difficult circumstances. This does not mean that improvements must not be made, it does not mean that everything is perfect. On the contrary. They find weaknesses that will be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u78	Thank you. Now we will discuss the first question with number 983/13-6-2016 of the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chrysolas Katsavrias - Siropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the study at the levels of Roma students' education. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in many countries of Europe, as in Greece, social exclusion, social discrimination, racist prejudices and the marginalisation of minority populations in general, is a phenomenon that attracts alarming proportions and is a sign for modern culture. The consequences of this problem are experienced over time and with intensity Greek Roma experience. The de facto "getation" de facto operates as one of the main reasons for the low participation of these people in prosperity, social security and education system in relation to the average population. This practice prevents Roma children from joining school, while many of them, without adequate and specific examination of each case, are led to special "geetto" - schools. This in itself is a flagrant violation of their constitutional rights, and at the same time exposes our country to the international commitments it has made. Unfortunately, only part of the children of Roma origin are in school, while many of them in primary school did not participate in preschool education. At the same time, many children are not supported by their parents to join the educational system. There are also children treated with prejudice, which prevents their smooth integration into education. In addition, we must highlight the serious problem in the relationship between teachers and Gypsy pupils, as few teachers are aware of the specific nature and approach of these children. Minister, I am convinced that strengthening the access and participation of Roma children in education should be a key objective in the planning of the Ministry, as part of the new changes to compulsory education. I would like to stress that the consensus, participation and consent of the Roma themselves are essential for the successful implementation of such a plan. I believe that the major problem of illiteracy of children and parents of the Roma communities, as well as the school leak of gypsies at all levels of school, must be addressed immediately. I believe that it is high time that the results of past policies on the issue of gypsies' incomplete education and social marginalisation should be assessed and that the necessary conclusions should be drawn, as evidenced in practice that these efforts were incomplete. As I have explained to you so far, Minister, I would like your answer to the question I have asked you in writing, which concerns the way in which the Roma Ministry's policy is formulated and the training of skilled teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Peglerin has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, in advance I will tell you that the entire effort of the Ministry is to avoid the marginalisation of the Roma. In particular, I would say to you that the Directorate of European and International Affairs promotes the strengthening of political inclusion in education, known as exclusive education, all of the sensitive social categories, including Roma, with its participation in international organisations such as UNESCO, the Council of Europe and the UN, as well as the European Union through Council committees and action programmes such as Erasmus Plus. In order to register and study Roma children, the Department of Studies, Programmes and the Educational Organisation of the Ministry of Education has published it under Protocol No 180644/C1/26-11-2013 on “School of Roma children: instructions, directions and supportive actions”. In this context, according to what the Constitution stipulates, laws and international conventions and declarations, the Greek state and its institutions must take all necessary measures to ensure equal access for all children to education. In particular, the access of the new generation Roma to education is a key mechanism to remove their social exclusion and an essential condition for their equal participation in the country's social, economic and political life. In this direction, the Ministry of Education promotes actions and programmes aimed at facilitating students, teachers and parents in an effective educational process against school and social exclusion and school leakage. In particular, as regards Roma children in school records, schooling and vaccination, it is recalled that the references to the relevant Circulars of the Ministry of Education, with the following references. Firstly, school heads and directors not only encourage the admission of Roma students to school, but also seek Roma children living in their area and care for their registration and attendance, as provided for in the relevant provisions on compulsory schooling. I would like to tell you here that I visited Aspropyrgos a few days ago in the 7th Primary School and found that from three sections in the primary school, now they have evolved into fourteen sections, where there are Roma with Greeks from other population groups. In other words, there is a coexistence. The second element is that both in kindergarten and in primary school, Roma children are accepted, regardless of whether they are written in registries or pupils. The Heads and Directors of the School Units, as provided for in the Presidential Decrees 200/1998 and 201/1998, are responsible for their registration. There is the Disease Prevention Control Centre, CEDEFOP, there are support centres, and all of these are intended to help in the integration of Roma children into schools, to be encouraged in this direction. The Ministry of Education seeks to incorporate Roma children into the normal classes, while their exclusion or separation from other students and their marginalisation is contrary to the Greek Constitution, which prohibits discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin in education, and in numerous international texts which bind the country and have over-legislative power. All of what I have said to you should also be added to the ESDP programmes, which aim precisely at ombudsmen bringing these children to classrooms. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u82	Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I must admit that I was not surprised by the truly sensitive and pedagogical original way in which you approached my question. It is easy to see, in your words, the theoretical training, the educational structure, the administrative experience and the political will you have. I am absolutely certain that Roma communities will soon be able to see the specific policies of the Ministry of Education taking flesh and bone. Let me now come to a second question, which concerns examining the possibility of introducing the Roma into higher education, as is the case with other population groups. In my discussions with representatives of the Roma, I was asked to ask you this question, at least as a reflection, as these fellow citizens consider that such an arrangement will be a strong incentive to incorporate their children into the educational process. I note that recently within the Committee on Social Affairs of Parliament two were their main demands: their integration into the labour market and the provision of educational opportunities for their children. Minister, I am aware that a rational approach to the formulation and formulation of a policy on a problem must be based on real facts. Especially for Roma, the state does not have sufficient information in terms of population, age composition, place of residence, standard of living, professional skills and capabilities and other useful census data. The failure to understand the history, tradition, culture and particular features of the community makes it difficult to tackle its problems equally and to incorporate its population into the social fabric. I think it is worth mentioning here the example of the contribution of gypsies to the area of music over time, especially in the times of technological delay. While Europe's interest is manifested in funding a large number of programmes for the Roma, it is obvious that the Greek society will make use of every opportunity to reaffirm once again that it is justly at the forefront of the struggle for the promotion of culture and the value of human beings. It goes without saying that the description of the problems of our fellow citizens' community cannot be exhausted in this timely question. It is certainly necessary to coordinate the action of individual ministries and the active political intervention of the State in general, in order to achieve an effective and comprehensive approach to this sensitive social issue. I hope, Minister, that your efforts will move in this direction. I believe that, considering the possibility of accessing Roma children in higher education, a grid of incentives could be detected in order to make a sense of failure and social exclusion a definitive past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u84	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u85	Madam Member, I must tell you the undivided interest of the Ministry of Education not only in the Roma, but also in the children of other countries who have been in our country, in the intercultural schools. I've visited a crowd of them, and I've discussed and seen the problems. Our effort is to provide equal treatment, to offer equal education to all categories of children here, in Greece. But what you are proposing, that there can be free access, or, in any case, under certain conditions, access by the Roma to the universities, is contrary to the basic provision of the Constitution for equality between all Greeks. Of course, in some cases, the state allows children to be introduced into universities under certain conditions, but under exceptional circumstances. For example, a few years ago, children from Kefalonia were given special care for their admission to universities due to earthquakes. However, this is the case in exceptional cases or in cases where foreign children are able, under certain conditions, to be in universities. But that is for national reasons. So the main burden, so that we can bring the Roma to schools, give them the knowledge they need, is in schools the same. And the problem with the Roma is not the children themselves. They're their families that's been pulling their kids out of school. A few months ago I visited the Intercultural School in the Botanic. There the manager told me that, while Roma children are enrolled in school, since November, they are withdrawn, because there is an allowance, which, as soon as parents take it, they are pulling the children out of there. Also, providing the meal is very necessary, because this is an incentive, a delear, to bring the children to school. Therefore, all our weight is, in the schools themselves, to give those children the opportunity to study equally with the other Greeks. Because marginalisation is the worst thing that can be done in our country and it is something that we are avoiding in every way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u86	So do we. We go to the second with number 975/10-6-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the Athens MP Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the debts of the OSCE. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, things with Athens' urban transport are not going well at all. And it is not only the incomprehensible attacks by anti-determinationists against buses and trolleys, which are essentially directed against some of the people - whether we are talking about drivers or about passengers - that is also the economic elements, which are constantly deteriorating. I have here the comparisons between 2014 and 2015. OSCE Group revenues decreased by 18% in 2015. The losses before tax amounted to 105,7m euros, compared with 83m euros in 2014. And the OSCE operating deficit, i.e., if we take out the loans, was shaped at EUR 25 million in 2015, compared to a surplus of EUR 2 million in 2014. Instead of improving things, turning backwards and actually turning back where we were in 2012, after three continuous years of improvement. I think the explanation, for me at least, is obvious. The administrations in 2015 were the same. The political leadership has changed and the political leadership has changed. Mr. Spirtz made a number of varandas, so he did them out of his pocket. Free movements of different groups have been signed, without covering the revenues from the respective Ministries. There were free moves in the referendum. There was a relaxation of controls. There are attacks against the auditors, and the ministry is not moving at all. There has been some ideology about the undisturbing of urban transport. That is why the situation continues to deteriorate in 2016. In the first quarter - based on data published in the press and not disproved - we have further reductions in revenues by 24%. From almost 50 million tickets in the first quarter of 2015 we went to 37-38 million in the first quarter of 2016. 24% reduction with new administrations, your administrations. I expect an answer to this. Are you confirming them, denying them? And what's your location? As I would also like you to tell me what your position is in relation to the future of transport. What about their subjection to the superstate? How does the Ministry get placed? Are you going to privatize again with a heavy heart, Mr. Spirtzi, or Mr. Pittsirlas or whoever is in the superstition will sign and you will report him? What is the attitude in general and yours and the government, of course? For everyone has been appointed by Mr. Tsipras and we are interested in knowing what your plan is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u88	The Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr Christos Spirtzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. You'll give me some more time and we'll save him from the two other timeliness next.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u90	You've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u91	I know, but the topical question is a very serious one and Mr Hatzidakis wants a lot of evidence. Mr Vice-President of the New Democracy, I would like to thank you for the timely question on urban transport. I thank you, since the combined com­munication terms of the forces that supported the Samara government, the press releases, your party armies, the visits by both Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Gennimatas to the field of urban transport, and the now-known group that supports you in the media have not given us the opportunity to respond, so that Parliament and the citizens know what has happened and what is happening today in the field of urban transport. That is why I have to thank you again. Mr. Hatzidakis, these are the elements of my answers. It's official papers. They're yours. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. They're numbered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u92	I've got the relevant data, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u93	It's a trolley with evidence!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Hatzidakis, you are certainly aware of and working with the Director General of the New Democracy, Mr. Papathanases, who was President and Managing Director of the STASY, with the Director of Political Planning of the New Democracy, Mr. Economou, who was President and CEO of the OSH, and with your former advisor, Mr. Demetriadis. These independent, unsuccessful and successful managers, as you were telling us, when new administrations were replaced and new administrations were placed and the parties later entered, by SYRIZA - by the same way, Mr President, the troika also told us - three companies were taken into absolute order and terrible operation. I will quote it in six sections below, to show once and for all the irrational and party orgy that you have structured, served and continued to defend and how you accumulate 96 million euros in budgetary and operational deficits, and today you are asking for explanations. The first section, which is your first communal myth. You say that we received surplus transport and created deficits. Colleagues, SSY closed in 2014 with an operating surplus of EUR 2.7 million and in 2015 with an operating deficit of EUR 23 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u95	Isn't that what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u96	Yeah, that's what you're saying. So listen, now down. According to the Directorates of ‘STASY S.A.’, this deficit is analysed as follows: Firstly, the reallocation of OSH and SSH revenues from 55% to 50%. That's 10 million. Secondly, price policy in October 2014, without any study and with a continuously reduced transport project, 30% reduction in four years, which costs another EUR 10 million. Thirdly, an increase in VAT from 13% to 23%, which was absorbed in 2015, so that the ticket does not increase so that the citizen does not pay it. Nor did the decisions of the current, direct associates you have in the New Democracy passed the costs of the election policies of the New Democracy in 2015, but they did not know that their term of office would last longer. We're late to change them. That's what happened, Mr. Hatzidakis. Prepare yourself to move deficits, cost, etc. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, this revenue is to be considered as assigned revenue and gives rise to the entry of additional appropriations on the lines That's all for S.H.I.E.L.D. Let's go to U.S. right now. On the contrary, in 2014 the OSH closed off with an operating deficit of EUR 21 million and a accumulated liabilities deficit of EUR 81 million. In order to allow your other partner to reach these numbers, 25 million euros were transferred directly from the General Accounting Office of the State at the end of 2013, which did not pass either by the Ministry or by the OSCE, so that the bill does not exist and to be saved the following year, in 2014. The relevant document is E1.2. Furthermore, it should be possible to supply critical spare parts - because you blame us for that too - for the fleet. He chose to correct the operational deficit of 2014. Also, the loss of revenue due to the government's pre-election pricing policy of Samaras in October 2014 is costing a loss of revenue of EUR 8,1 million. The relevant document is E1.3. The company’s communication strategy continued in 2015, which had a deficit of EUR 12,8 million and managed to increase accumulated liabilities to third parties to EUR 103 million compared to 2014, relative to E1.4. The deficit reduction in 2015 is due to an important effort by the previous administration of the OSH to reduce the reliability of public transport, through the reduced service of suppliers and a reduced market for spare parts of more than 22%, relative to E1.4, while decommissioned buses increased in 2015. You told us that buses are burning outside the University and we condemn it. Do you remember that, when we received, a bus burned every week in the neighborhoods of Athens, due to a lack of spare parts, due to a 22% reduction in spare parts, which you did in 2014? Overall, the OSCE Group was charged with 18 million euros a year from the New Democracy's pre-election pricing policy, Mr. President, relevant E1.5., with a deficit of EUR 103 million of credibility to the group's suppliers and with claims of EUR 113 million from the Ministries for 2011 to 2014, R1.6. These are the letters sent by previous commands to the government of Samara. And then - I'm telling you about this first section - what have we done? We managed to deliver a group budget with a deficit of EUR 20 million, related to E1.7. We have proceeded with further savings of EUR 8.5 million, involving the cost of procurement by means of electronic tenders, service contracts. They left or the security companies will leave and the Greek police will come to guard - everyone in their role - which was 4 million more and so on. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] It is also being handled to serve the accumulated deficit of the group in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, in order to find a netting model of what the public bodies and the ministries owe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u97	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u98	No, I'm not done. I have six sections. I will save, Mr President, a year. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u99	But it can't be, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u100	Okay. I would ask you very much to read at least three of the other ones in my speech. Second myth: we have received companies with a high management rating. The size of the scandal, which is being investigated by the General Inspector for Public Administration and which has a significant impact on the group's revenues - other estimates say for more than 20 million euros and more than 30 million euros - in the SSAC ticket management system and more generally in the group, demonstrates the lack of plan and organisation in the management of companies, E2.1. A great question, Mr Hatzidakis, is how the previous administrations of the group - there, you know, President and Managing Director was the current Director-General of the New Democracy, and the President and CEO of the OSCE were your adviser - allowed no substantial physical protection and preservation in the field of counting the central fund of the CSCE. All SSY's money and ticket handling procedures had been deactivated, with the result that the ticket handling, the rest of the tickets and money handling were not controlled. For a five-year period, a counting director had not been assigned to the central fund of the SSY. The above model has led to a registered exclusion of a total amount of EUR 110 000 in SSY and EUR 647,516 in SSH for the years 2010 to 2015, related to E2.2. Of course, there was no computer system. In particular, the companies' warehouses did not simply have systems, Mr President, but these were the images we found, ladies and gentlemen. I'll testify to these photographs in the Minutes, too. Look at this mess!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u101	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u102	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, That, Mr President, is not good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u103	I'm not talking about the photos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u104	These are tickets that had to be returned and, instead of being returned as ticket numbers, they were returned as pounds of paper, Mr Hatzidakis. What have your administrations done, these terrible managers, and you're asking us today for change? The relevant E2.3 concerns the decision of the OSCE Board of Directors on paper pounds. Destroy the returned tickets as pounds of paper. Other: Disgusting, for the OSCE Group, regulation of previous administrations between TRAINOSE and OSCE. Here the OSCE's revenues were allocated to the "TRAINOSE" to make it more attractive to the great managers. And, come on, the manager of TRAINOSE, but the manager of the OSCE, why? Why would OSCE lose 20.3m euros per year, E2.7. There were two accounts in SAS.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u105	But now, Minister, what am I supposed to do? How can I manage the situation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u106	I'm done with second section, and I have four more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u107	Leave them for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u108	I would ask, Mr President, that Mr Hatzidakis then have a tritology to answer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor. That's three minutes, that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u110	It is so clear, Mr President, that I do not need time. Mr. Spirtzi, you've screwed up, and now you're saying inseparable verbs. First of all, you came with some evidence box, but, you know, I have evidence and numbers are stubborn, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u111	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u112	Every year, things from 2012 onwards - in 2012, in 2013, in 2014 - improved. In 2015 they deteriorated and in 2016 they have worsened, until now, even more, despite your budget forecasts. This, and an encyclopedia to testify to the House, does not change and make the decision. That is why you and the government must apologise as a whole. That's the first. Secondly, you referred to alleged scandals in S.H.I.E.L.D. This is a survey regularly carried out in previous years. The Department of Economic Crime participated each year in 2013, 2014, 2015. Some data were found at the staff level, which were five steps below the CEO, on tickets, and you did well and you spotted it and said it was 100,000 euros. However, 100,000 euros with the tens of millions I mentioned have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u113	It's two different.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u114	So I tell you that, and encyclopedias to bring here, any evidence and any files, the situation is very clear. I want an answer, within the various sections to which you will refer, about what is going on in the first quarter. Is it getting worse in the first quarter or not? However, I would like to close with two more questions: Mr Spirtzi, you have lost your time, ten minutes now, to be able to fight against the administrations that were in OSCE, OSCE and SAS. But you, Minister, have kept them for a whole year! You have sat 15 - 16 months at the Ministry and the 12 months you were with these people. So, if all of these people were mismanaged, you were the minister of mismanagement. If all of them were to make scandals, you were the minister who tolerated scandals. Don't you understand that you're now turning against yourself? I mean, that thing is beyond imagination. Also, Minister, why don't you bother telling us what you're going to do about the urban transport that you're going to the U.S.? You're gonna tell us, I imagine, that you're going to make use of them and that you're not going to demilitarize them. Bravo! You're gonna use them with the help of the troika, because you couldn't do it on your own. You also want the troika's help, to be at the supreme and to make use of them. But, if that is the case, Mr Spirtzi, why don't you use PPC in this way and in this way, which your government is proud to have left it out of the superstition, why doesn't it want to be privatised and move in this direction that the superstition will work? What's the matter with both? Tell us. Because we really do not know whether we are living or dreaming about them, what we hear every day and what we hear from you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u115	The Minister has the floor. Minister, not more than three minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, I will continue the myths of the New Democracy, but at first I will say a few things. Mr Hatzidakis and his first speech - and this must be reflected, because this is the policy of the New Democracy - he has rebuked us, because we have relaxed the system a little, because we have free moves to various groups, such as the unemployed. The unemployed must not be moved free of charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u117	I didn't say that. I said cover the cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u118	In order to show the populism of the New Democracy in this Chamber, they were picking up all the uniforms on whether they would have free tickets. Now, if you read the text of his current question, he says: “What have you put them in? Have you taken money from them?"
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u119	That's not what I'm saying. I'm saying the expenses must be covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u120	Isn't that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u121	I'm saying the expenses must be covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u122	I'll say a few more things, Mr. Hatzidakis, so we can get it over with. Your problem is public urban transport. Say it. It is the social role of urban transport. This money didn't go to remulas, they didn't go into mismanagement in urban transport companies. The world went to the Greek people and even to the weakest. Of course, no matter how much you have party armies or others to make mobilizations, etc. - it is their right - that we should not forget, as you have done to the SSY workers, we will neither do we want to get communists, such as the PNO, nor destroy tickets as pounds of paper with a decision of the people who have been placed there, nor will you see in the storeroom photos that I have shown you nor will we have headhunters instead of auditors. I keep going with myths and going to the fourth section. Third, if I have time, I'll read it later. Human resources management. Here's what neoliberal New Democracy did. We are not saying how many people have changed their qualifications and been lost, but there is nothing here, Mr Hatzidakis, only in the imagination of the New Democracy. You were giving up plastic overtime. EUR 4.3 million is overtime, the realities of which were EUR 300,000. You complained to us, you reformists were giving fictitious overtime!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u123	Didn't you have these administrations a year?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u124	Plastic overtime 4 million euros a year! Congratulations! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Let's go to the third section.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u125	And we're done, because we don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u126	I'm done. Well-preserved buses. Two thousand three hundred eighty-seven thermal and electric buses were taken. The average age is 12.8 years and trolleybus with an average age of 14.2 years. The damage in 2016 has been limited to five hundred and fifty-four vehicles, compared to seven hundred in 2015, with a 22% reduction in spare parts. You, Mr. Hatzidakis, were responsible for the ESDP at the Samara government. A provision for the renewal of the bus fleet was not in your schedule. Mia, for the eyes of the world! And you forsake us with this fleet you left, why, he says, are the buses spoiled?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u127	All right, get it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u128	What's your prediction?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u129	I don't have time to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u130	There's no more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u131	And they will be recruited, Mr President, because what they gave to plastic overtime, off-takes and everything else justifies us to do enough to meet the needs we have, without an increase in labour costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u132	Thank you. Parliamentarians Savvas Anastasiades and George Stylos seek permission from a few days' absence abroad, in Italy, for personal reasons. Mr. Savvas Anastasiades from 17-6-2016 to 20-6-2016 and Mr. George Stylos from 22-6-2016 to 26-6-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u133	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. The ninth question under number 951/6-2016 will be discussed with the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the resolution of the operating issues of Heraklion Airport "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS". Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, seventy-four years ago, seventy-four years were completed by historian sabotage at Heraklion airport. And I am referring to the night of June 13, 1942, and the attack that the Middle East Allied General did against the Axis forces. It's one of the most important sabotages. I personally join those who consider it the most important sabotage during World War II at an airport, in the wider Mediterranean region and the Middle East. And I am referring to this because I want to say that, like then, Heraklion airport is playing its part today. I am sure, Minister, that you too agree that his history and this juncture do not allow us to leave it in his luck. At the time that tenders are being submitted in the tendering procedure for the construction and operation of the new airport in Kastelli, at the time of the take-off of the tourist traffic in Heraklion, Crete, I imagine that you also know very well that today's airport, Heraklion Airport "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS", the first, the longest after "ELEERERIOS VENIZELOS" in a passenger traffic in the country, cannot be left on the automatic pilot, but it is necessary to speed up the implementation of certain key interventions for its orderly operation. In this respect, the Commission concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. It is also the granting of land by the General Civil Aviation Staff to develop new facilities and the surrounding area of the airport, as well as the completion of the tender for the repair and maintenance of the existing equipment. Furthermore, the question of substation of the airport's Technical Maintenance Department in critical specialities, including electricians, engineers, drivers and refrigerants, is also serious. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is characteristic that the airport until recently after the retirement of the only plumbing plant had no plumbing. Let me also mention - and knowing, of course, that this matter is the responsibility of another ministry - the need for a vehicle to be made available for all the work at the airport and, in particular, for the measurement of slipping. Since the serious oligories of previous governments have been deprived of Heraklion and Crete, an airport will serve the real needs of citizens and tourists, highlighting Heraklion Prefecture and contributing to growth and economy, not only in Heraklion, but more generally in the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u135	Come on, put an end to it. It's been eating you a lot of time for sabotage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u136	... because the flow of tourists, fortunately for our tourism, is increasing this year, because the completion of the new airport in Kastelis is at an early stage and the operation of today's airport must be unfeasible, I would like to ask you what the designs and precise timetable are for the necessary interventions planned at Heraklion Airport and whether the proposal to use the airport's own revenue, such as the allocation of 2% of the turnover, has been examined to finance these interventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u137	The Minister has the floor, in time always.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u138	Yes, yes, Mr President, thank you very much. Dear colleague, friend Nikos, the same question was answered by the State Secretary a week ago by Mr. Augiakis. I have the Office's document to give it to you, including planning, the competitions that have already been made to restore local damage, to the east expansion of the airport, to the north extension and to restructure the rooms, to communication, actions and cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and all the rest. So, in order not to "eat" the time and to respond to another, which is a very crucial issue, but to be raised, I am bringing you the Minutes which Mrs Chryssovelonis answered, which are exactly the same and I am bringing you the answer I gave a year ago to Mr Augiakis, which was the previous administration of the Civil Aviation Service, to see what had been done a year ago - nothing - and what has been done today about this story. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, you asked a question, if you can get the airport's revenues to get 2% of the local airport. We have a more general problem with the way they work this year - because it is the last, it changes after the system - the Financial Control Services in bodies such as the Civil Aviation Service, which have structures throughout Greece, such as regional airports. Because only central competitions are permitted, local competitions are only for emergencies. So if we want to make a maintenance and a local competition in Heraklion and even worse in Kastelorizo or in other regional airports, either for fuel, for maintenance or for anything, we can't. This is tragic, and I would ask you very much - we have cooperation with the Treasury, in order to deal with it - to force us to put a little more pressure on us to resolve this issue. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, too. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u140	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his answer. I think we need to look at this issue, that is to say, free money, which locally manages not only Heraklion airport, as you quite rightly said, but overall local airports, so that issues can be resolved. Indeed, for a broken glass or a torn tent we will have to wait for a central competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u141	And approval from the DEA...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u142	I think we should stop this bureaucracy. The second thing I would like is, if you can, give information on the issue of Castellios about how it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that they have been completed by the technical board and a few changes are left to get the new auction issues of Kastelion, the final ones. The changes that have been made - and you know them - are very great in relation to how we understand public-private partnerships, the involvement of local societies and respect for the environment and the energy classification of the airport - that is to say, not being energy-intensive - in serving the citizens of Crete, to having no concessional airports, but airports involved in the Greek public and local society, which has compensatory benefits for local society. You know they've gone up, almost doubled the compensatory amounts, it's 2.5% and a lot of other changes to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u145	Mr Minister, if I may, I am actually referring more to an issue that exists in the local press if there is to be an extension in relation to the tender.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u146	There is one request for all the participants to have an extension, because they do not make red tape with the banks. We will contact the Greek banks and, if that is true, it will be respected, because we do not want to exclude any participants from this process and ensure better conditions for the Greek public. That is why, Mr Igoumenides, we cannot - and we cannot - plan and implement other projects, which we would like to do at the old airport, at the 'Nikos KAZADZAKIS'. In other words, the fact that we will have an international very large airport within five years is what makes us, and because of the economic weakness we have, a little tighter in infrastructure projects, to be done at the old airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u147	We go to the 17th Seventeenth under number 964/7-6-2016 topical question by MP Atolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the reduction of the cost of transiting from the bridge "HARILAOS TRICOYPIS". It is a matter of concern to the inhabitants and is related to the Riu-Antirio bridge and the cost of transit. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u148	Minister, a year ago I was back and brought to the House for the first time the issue of reducing the cost of crossing the bridge "HARILAOS TRICOYPIS" consortium. So there has been a whole year since we discussed the subject of the transit charges for the bridge 'HARILAOS TRICOYPIS'. In fact, you yourself assured me that you would process a specialised concession plan in order to call on the concessionaires and discuss the reduction of tolls in general. However, with regard to the bridge "CHARILAOS TRICOYPIS", the Greek State would go to negotiation to reduce the cost of transit. But, Minister, instead of reducing VAT now, we also have an increase in the cost of crossing the bridge. I am returning, therefore, and I am also calling for the immediate reduction in the price of crossing the bridge, because today's transit cost is a real loop for the passing residents of the Prefecture of Aetolakarania and the other counties of Western Greece. The Greek State has the right to renegotiate the terms of a concession contract, as ten years have elapsed. The bridge "HARILAOS TRICOYPIS" is the most important infrastructure project of the country and a pillar of development for western Greece. Instead of being a bridge to local communities, however, it has become a dam, both for the municipalities of Atolokarnania and Preveza, Arta, Thesprotia, Ioannina, Lefkada and Corfu. It is impossible today to pay any worker to cross the bridge of EUR 13,30 or EUR 26,60 to return home, whether he goes to a university or go to a hospital, for any other need, of course, using the bridge. So it is impossible in the crisis to oblige a worker to pay a wage, to cross the bridge. Here I should like to stress that more than two hundred fifty citizens go daily as workers between the Aetolokarnania and Achaia prefectures. So it's a great cost of crossing the bridge. And if for workers it is a barrier, imagine how difficult the unemployed or the other citizens, belonging to vulnerable groups, are. Minister, we all know that average family income has fallen over the past five years by 40%. So the state has to do something for the citizens. And what he has to do is predict reductions, where he can, equivalent to 40% that were accepted as a reduction in their family budget or family income. It is imperative, Minister, that you go to a new negotiation with the consortium and ask immediately for a reduction in the cost of transit. We do not live in the age of 2004, 2009, at a growth rate of 4%, 10% unemployment, and GDP reaches 210 billion euros. Therefore, people's living conditions have changed. People live in a tragedy of poverty and unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u149	It's clear, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u150	So I ask you here: does the Ministry intend to take steps to reduce the cost of crossing the Bridge's bridge and, if so, what is the timetable for their implementation? Secondly, there is a plan to renegotiate the terms of the concession with GEOFYRA S.A., so that its conditions are better suited to the current data of the Greek economy and society and what is that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u151	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Comrade, you have left me surprised. I'm really talking to you. I think you've come to SYRIZA. I'm being honest. I will typically read the Agency's reply and then we will have another kind of debate. The Office therefore says that, in accordance with the concession agreement, the two parties - when the contract was signed - agree and accept that during the entire period of operation the contractor has the exclusive right to impose and collect toll charges from the vehicles and wheels passed through the bridge in general. This exclusive right of the Contractor will apply throughout the entire period of operation - regardless of any legal characterisation of the nature of the bridge, of the services offered and regardless of the ownership rights associated with the bridge - and prevails any other general or specific law. And underneath, in order not to bore you, it has the categories of vehicles, the maximum applicable prices, and the bridge is very good, because it has maximum prices below those provided for in the contract and it also has special discount programmes for those who are frequently moved. I'm putting this down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does that mean? It means that the conventions we inherited from New Democracy and PASOK - some of them had been revised very recently - not only do they not give the right to renegotiate or to renegotiate, but they do not provide for any elementary things, such as the possibility of special categories of citizens with a very great need to pass through for free or to pass through a much smaller toll.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u153	So, Minister, the exclusive right to set the toll price has it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u154	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u155	No one else can intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u156	Nobody. Neither is the Ministry interfering with anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u157	And if the contractor says tomorrow: "I want 50 euros to go and come"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u158	I welcome you, if you want to come to SYRIZA, with great pleasure. But because you belong to the Democratic Incorporation - I also appreciate you at a personal level and political level - I really expect you to bring me the proposals of your political body, the Democratic Incorporation, in relation to the contract that this party is involved in and we are now committed to the country's commitment to what we are going to do. In my second speech, I will say about our plan, but really, Mr. Konstantopoulos, because I saw you agitated somehow to tell and tell us, I would ask you to have your party's official proposals in relation to the tolls and the bridge "HARILAOS TRICOYPIS".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u159	Minister, I would remind you that when these conventions were signed, we were in the same party, under the same roof. So we were both at PASOK. That's the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u160	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u161	Wait a minute, Mr. President. He talked about the contracts. So, whatever the hypothetical knew, the minister knew.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u162	So is there a co-responsibility for what was signed then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u163	But at least we don't object to things that we don't need. Minister, we're friends, and I appreciate you and I love you very much. But this has nothing to do with the others. Secondly, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is a continuation of the PASOK government and the Papademos government and the Samara government. So today it has the responsibility of government of the state. So whether the tolls are cheap or expensive knows that those who actually cross the bridge "CARILOS TRICOYPIS". In this war and the crisis, however, I think the price is too great. On the bridge today the passages have been reduced by a great deal. Therefore, if the cost of transit is reduced, the passages are increased and the consortium loses nothing. Minister, the question is that such a great project, such as the bridge, is devalued at the high cost of transit. It does not serve the needs for which it was created. Western Greece lived in complete exclusion before this play. Charilaus Trikoupis, therefore, envisioned the Ryu-Antirio link. The PASOK governments have implemented the project and have come to you to take it, if you wish, one step below. The bridge is located at the crossroads of two important axes, the Patras motorway - Athens - Thessaloniki and the Kalabakas diagonal - Patras - Igoumenitsas. In fact, with the completion of the Ionian and Ambrosia Road, the Olympic Road is united with the Ennatia. The development map, Mr President, is therefore changing throughout western Greece. The benefits it can give local and regional development are too much. However, these retreat today ahead of the unbearable cost of crossing the bridge. Let me remind you here that the Egnatia Road costs 15.6 euros, if you go on one side to the other, Elefsina - Corinth 8,90, Corinth - Tripoli 9,40, Attica Road 2,80, Coast Tunnel - Preveza 3 euros. Unfortunately, however, on the Riu-Antirio Bridge, we have the highest cost. It costs 13.30 euros and if you come back, 26.60 euros. As I have said before, the cost of transit is therefore to be reduced. As for how the solution will be found, you are the Minister, Minister, you govern, so it is yours. Minister, the reduction of transit costs is a constant request from local government, TEI, labour centres, trade unions in Western Greece. It is therefore a constant request for all citizens of Western Greece. I should like to inform you that we shall be tabling a joint declaration and a joint resolution from all Members of Parliament calling for the reduction of costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Comrade, yes, that's how it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u165	I want a minute, Mr President, to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u166	However, I would like to ask this question. So, what you said, Minister, applies for life not of us mortals, but of the bridge?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u167	Until the concession has been concluded, which is forty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u168	Minister, I would like your attention here. The contract states that after 10 years the public may renegotiate. That's what I want to see, and that's where we have to stand. I would also like to stress that the maritime institutions are requesting a reduced crossing of EUR 6, a identity card with special care for workers with reduced transit, special care for the students of the ICES and the ICES and TEI of Patras, exotic with a card of EUR 10 retread, a fee for tolls for the operators that take place in tourist and cultural interest during the year. Minister, I'll point it out again. While for the bridge it is secured - I would say - clientele, there are no benefits for the local society. If you do not take immediate action on toll prices, you will be aware of the fact that the bridge clearly affects the public interest. I want you to commit, Minister, because I know you can fight it, that together with the MPs who are from Western Greece we will renegotiate the reduction in the cost of crossing the bridge. Besides, this is not Constantopoulos, but all the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u169	Mr Colleague, this has become clear. The question is, Minister, whether there can be a renegotiation or whether 'the first forty years is difficult and then we will see'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, the renegotiation will obviously take place. With Mr Constantopoulos, in fact, we were for too many years in the same party - well that Mr Bolaris and Socrates are here - just some were disagreeing when we were at the same party and this party had other features at that time. We are just late to get a divorce - and that is where we have a responsibility - with the right social democracy that was the party's leader and has remained in the Democratic Partnership. That's why we have to apologize. Also, because you said so too that the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK today are SYRIZA and ANELs, it does not mean that the fact that the government has changed means that we have no commitments as a country. Because, as you know very well, there is the continuity of the state. So for any contract and any commitments we inherited from unilaterally saying that we are changing it, that means hundreds of millions of clauses every year and you know it better than I do. It is bound by the conventions and the first generation of concessions and the five motorways after Mr. Sufflia. So any changes are made presupposed by agreement between both parties. What we are trying to do, and that is why we recently tabled part of the draft law dealing with electronic tolls, with the total toll body, with the tolls at the entrances of the country, so that we do not have any losses from private cars particularly foreign and heavy, is to be able to find revenues in order to reduce the tolls of all the motorways in the country, which have been set by the contracts that we have inherited in very high amounts and to be able to pursue a social policy as well. The second thing we are proposing, and this is the role of the body that we have set up, is scientific and documentary, to prove to concessionaires and banks that we can change the contracts by finding a system that has variable size and time. Therefore, in times of crisis like the one we are going through, to reduce tolls and to increase time and in times where we have more comfort or more traffic burdens, respectively, to reduce the time of concession. But these are difficult exercises and negotiations. I believe that the negotiations that we have made in the Moroccan Convention show the direction we want to go. The agreements we have made with both the E65 and with the Ionian and Olympia which will follow for electronic tolls, the special social charges that must go free and not pay to the limit of a municipality the tolls that exist there are moves and agreements in a positive direction, which have been negotiated hard. These tough negotiations will continue to improve the conditions we have inherited both on the bridge and on the other concessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u172	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u173	Wait a minute, you don't have the floor, Mr. President. What was the case ten years ago, before the crisis, during the deepest crisis the country is experiencing. We are now entering the third under number 970/8-6-2016 timely question of the first question of Attica of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the products of protected designation of origin, feta and Kalamon olives." Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u174	As the oxymospheric shape of PASOK has just been observed to ask, PASOK is answering the positions of the Ministerial Council and because the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, who will answer me, is coming from PASOK, I would ask him not to take the same argument, 'I have found a bad agreement from the former Government of New Democracy - PASOK', because we will laugh. Let us see how the problem can be solved, which we will be addressing at the moment, because this is an issue which is not simply an economic issue, it is national - I would say - because it is hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens involved in the production of feta, olive oil, protected designation of origin products, whether we are talking about farmers or about the standardisation sector. So I come to mention - to understand the citizens who are following us - what crime is now committed by the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government? As I know very well, since 25-10-2005 - since October 2007 in practice - the Greek "feta" product has been protected. In other words, no other State, no producer other than Greek producers can sell the feta product on the international market. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is now coming and committing a crime - it is not naughty retreat simply, it is a crime against national interests - and it signes an agreement from the European Union with some amazing African states, whose producers have the right to use the trade name 'feta'. And we are talking about the states - I am not kidding now, I am talking very seriously - Botswana, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa and Swaziland. There will be a product in Europe - sold on the shelves of supermarkets - in which the name'souziland feta' or Botswana will be entered. So I begin to mention the questions and I will be much more specific in my dentistry. So I would like to ask if it has a picture of the Ministry of the negative consequences it will cause in the Greek economy, in hundreds of thousands - I repeat - our fellow citizens this action, this unacceptable and disastrous decision. And, of course, the question raised by everyone - not only by the producers, but also by every intelligent citizen - is why Greece did not use the right to veto in this case, because we did not veto, as you had to do to defend our national interests and the economic interests of thousands of Greek citizens. And I close with the question - rhetorical, of course - what exactly do you intend to do in the future to protect all Greek products of protected designations of origin, since of course these specific commitments - you will now talk to us about some of the commitments made by these European players, who have an unwilling policy - I tell you in advance that they have nothing at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Bollaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u176	We are used to destroying ourselves in the Chamber. We think that by destroying production and development we are helping. We are not helping her, however, my dear fellow Member. You refer to answers before hearing them, because you know that these answers cancel your arguments and your question. First of all, it is an agreement, to which you refer in your question, which is in fact about certain states which do not have a strong economy and which the European Union is trying to support in development, except for strong South Africa. These five states - apart from South Africa - are meant to have no production. You also know - because you said so in your speech - that this agreement you are referring to, which you slightly accuse the government of crime, has been initialled on 15 July 2014. The country in the European Union initialled this Agreement on 15 July 2014. And it is the continuation of the state we are constantly talking about. The critical - to be recorded in the Chamber - what is it in history? In the first half of 2014, the country had the Presidency in the European Union and had the possibility of handling, because the negotiation took place in the first half of 2014. That is why, for 15 days then, the agreement was initialled by Greece. Since March 2015, the Government of Alexis Tsipras has raised the issue at European Union level. He was asked to reopen the matter. Since then, this issue has had a number of negotiations which have taken place at ministerial level. Three meetings of the Minister, Vangelis Apostolos, were held with the European Commissioner, but also with the Secretary-General responsible for international relations, Mr Kasimis. The Europeans said: 'You signed. The deal's closed. What we can do..." - and what was done at the end - "...is to introduce conditions to change the status of the contract after it was signed by the country at the end of the first five years." And that is exactly what you have referred to and which I will be able to mention in my second language. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u178	First of all, I did not receive an answer why Greece did not exercise the right to veto. We are an independent state. We want to believe that we are not a protectorate of the European Union, so that the Commission can run a test here. So you had that possibility. Indeed, this was a disgraceful agreement, for which the former Government of New Democracy - PASOK, a party from which the current Minister for Rural Development came. The current Greek Government had the right to exercise the right to veto, to veto, as it had the right to veto the embargo on Greek products that are going to Russia, because it is major, it is wider. I'm opening the conversation. Could the Greek rural economy be resurrected literally if we vetoed the embargo imposed by the European Union on Russia. This is a decision not anti-Russian, but unwilling. It's a decision against Greek interests. Until the last minute he has the right of every state to veto. Any trade agreement to be ratified must have unanimity within all the Member States of the European Union. So you also had to veto this agreement, which, of course, could be in Swaziland, or I do not know which other countries - bananas, but South Africa, which is a very big economy, with terrible production potential. The Greek embassy, as we know, did research. There are forty-seven different products on the South African market using the name ‘feta’. It's not Banana South Africa. It's a large, highly developed economy. And, of course, it's not just the theme of feta or just the Kalamon olive. As we know very well, the future is not at all prosperous for Greek products, because the Commission has already enabled the Czech Republic to use the term "Greek yogurt". Of course, I have asked what the losses are for our economy. Losses are huge. I will say it and stress what problems will arise in the course of the Greek producers. For yoghurt, the annual turnover of the today illegally identified Greek yoghurt in the European Union is around EUR 6 billion. Globally, the figure is 15 billion. As far as feta is concerned, the country exports EUR 250 million - so much the cost of the product exported - and in essence it covers 86% of the total Greek exports of cheese products. And that is where you come to the foundations of a great Greek industry and a bomb with this decision, which is a procurer of the notorious TTIP agreement. The competitor Panagiotaros will then also refer to this issue, which is major for the economic interests of Greece. Today you're talking about growth. The Prime Minister appears and is constantly talking about growth. And what are you doing? With your signature you are appalling the possibility of productive reconstruction in Greece. I will, of course, repeat the country's obligation to put veto on every kind of decision. I ask whether and when this agreement will be ratified by Parliament. You must bring it here, to vote by SYRIZA and ANEL Members, that every state of South Africa, every producer of Africa and then the rest of the world, can use the name of Greek products of protected designation of origin. Of course this decision on the Greek economy is disastrous. We're not ruining. We are talking about an economy that has been completely levelled. As a state and as a government, you should use the rights we have. Greece should be vetoing every decision that affects the interests of hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens. They are three hundred thousand Greek citizens in a hundred thousand livestock farms. We are talking about family businesses in fact and not about capitalists, whom instead of hitting, you are underage today. We are talking about three hundred thousand Greek citizens who are involved in the production of feta and other dairy products, who are affected by this decision of yours. We're not ruining. We present the true picture of destruction that you have imposed on the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u179	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it always has the climate in the economy. I would like to assure both the National Representation and the productive world that this excellent product, feta, on the international markets, is constantly recording ever-increasing successes, despite the problems and the catastrophe with which some in the Chamber want to deal with it. It is clear that as the European Union agreement with the South African states has been formulated - not only South Africa but also satellites - it is not enough. That is why the repeated meetings, the repeated démarches, the performances and meetings of the Minister, Mr Apostleos, were held with Mr Hogan. It was a complete matter. What have we achieved in this process in relation to these states and in general? First of all, I would like to make it clear to you that the Commission has the power to make the agreements, has the power of the Member States to manage them. In the final debate which has taken place - and it seems this press release issued by the Ministry - there is a self-criticism from the Commission, which says that it commits itself to ensuring the strict application of the protection of geographical indications provided for in Protocol 3 and in the ongoing and future negotiations it will maintain close contact with each Member State concerned. It is the Community's self-criticism for the way in which it handled critical issues in the negotiations. In addition to the information agreed for the review after five years, which is explicitly provided for in the terms 'feta', but the terms 'feta type' or 'feta style' or 'South Africa Meta', which clearly informs the consumer that this is another product and not the Greek feta, it has been agreed - and that is why it will come here in the next few days from the Community - to strengthen the Greek producers in international markets. There will therefore be, after consultation, negotiations and agreements in Athens, a strengthening of the funds provided for promotional measures, that is, money that we give to Greek businesses, Greek cooperatives and cheese producers, so that they can come out on the international markets. So, with these promotional actions, we will show both the quality and uniqueness of this excellent product, so that we can win on the markets this possibly by a badly formulated contract, such as the one signed on July 15, 2014, we have losses. It is therefore clear that the European Union, with these two references, admits that there is insufficient protection. And the government has provided three conditions for the replacement and more than that. But be sure that where there is feta from Greece in international markets, all other products are displaced. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u181	The third question will be discussed under number 979/10-6-2016.The second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn.Ilia Panayotarou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the US-EU Trade Agreement (TITP) and the protection of Greek feta. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my question is directly linked to Mr Cassidy's question, with a question we asked last week and with questions that we will ask you in the next few days. There is a lot of talk - and today, indeed, there will also be a roll-call vote - about a development bill. When we talk about growth, we talk about primary production. And when we talk about primary production, we are mostly talking about agricultural and livestock products, the king of which in our country is feta and other cheese products. And it is not just that between about six hundred and fifty million citizens of the European Union, feta is protected as a PDO product. There are about six and a half million other citizens, residents of the whole world, who could possibly be customers of the Greek feta, something for which neither the previous government has done anything, nor the former one, nor you have. This tragic event began in 2013 with the European Union - Canada agreement, which was the first major defeat in Greece in the case of feta. In other words, the Canadians will be able to use the 'feta type', 'feta style' or something else, as will be done, if nothing changes, in the case of the South African states. Of course, the word 'feta' will be with very large letters and the word'style' will be very small. You know what that's like. It may also be at some point in the packaging that will not be seen at all. That was the first blow. The second very big blow is this imminent agreement with six South African countries, of which five are very poor, as you said, namely Swaziland, Botswana and I do not know who others are. But there their branches will be opened up by large multinationals who will produce milk of whatever kind. Hundreds of millions of animals will produce feta. They will flood the texture with "Feta Type" or "Feta Syle" - or whatever you want, say it - and it will be at the expense of Greek products. The tombstone, in fact, comes with the secret talks between the European Union and America, the so-called 'TIP', the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] When we say'secret conversations' - let me, Mr President, like a previous question, give up some time - we mean that they are literally secrets. In order for a Member of the European Parliament to go to see the minutes of the discussions between the European Union and America, he must make an appointment to the European Parliament. And after going to a particular guarded room and looking for him thoroughly, he doesn't have any photographics, cameras, pens, pencil, paper or anything else, he can go in, sit and see stacks of volumes, books and documents that don't say and nothing about substance, because he's with codes and articles. Of these, of course, he can't get anything out of it. And when they came to the light of publicity, very few minutes of these secret talks between Europe and the United States, the world went down. And now it's starting to hit the bell that something dirty is going to happen. There has been a vote in the European Parliament, in the nuts. And since all the Members of the European Parliament have realised that this agreement is at the expense of Europe and the European peoples and their homes, Mr Schultz withdrew it because he could not pass it and they are looking to find the formula that will pass. I ask, Minister, if you are fully aware of the Ministry, as well as the Ministers responsible, about the talks that are taking place with the United States. Is there a case - as Mr Cassidyris said earlier and we are constantly saying - that you should finally veto certain issues relating to our sovereign rights, such as feta, Kalamas olives or other goods? This is what we are saying, expressing the following question to everyone: 'But does the European Union not want the good of the Member States?' No, because in the European Union Germany and one or two other countries, all they care about is promoting their own products, which are machinery, cars, electronics - electrical equipment and, of course, milk products, but which are not a protected designation of origin. So it is of interest to them to make this forthcoming agreement either with the South African countries or with the United States. We are therefore asking - and we are specific - whether you are extremely aware of what is happening with these secret talks, if you have in any way seen the Minutes and if you intend, at last, to veto these dissolution agreements for the nations and the countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u183	The Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u184	We have a recast of the question by my colleague, who I do not know first of all whether he is referring to the Ministry of Rural Development to which he is addressed. While the question is addressed to the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, the "questioned Minister" states: "The Minister, Mr Stathakis, attended the first European Council on 13 May..." - etc. - "... and they must justify how our country lost the privilege for the PDO of feta..." and so on. I do not think it is a clear question. I'm sure it's addressed to an unauthorized department. If you refer to and ask Mr. Stathakis and you want Mr. Stathakis to explain, Mr. Comrade, you must probably withdraw it and resent it to another ministry. What I want to tell you, in relation to TTIP, if you're asking the Ministry of Rural Development, and I'm answering you about the evolution of the talks, I'm telling you no. What makes me very surprised and related to the procedure here is: You say in your question: "It was officially announced by the media that our country lost the PDO of feta and now any country producing white cheese can call it "feta". There's never been official media announcements. I don't think your question is correct. In fact, if I were you, I would submit it again, to have it targeted and say that another is the issue of PDOs, such as feta, but it's the question of TTIP, but it's what the media say and another is what is going on in the meetings and discussions, which has not yet been officially announced. Since you guys showed up here that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u185	For the truck, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u186	Yeah. You should know that here we are not here to have a general political debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u187	Specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u188	Another procedure is provided for in the Rules of Procedure for generalised political debates. We have come here, in a procedure that has a three-minute answer, to answer matters of competence. So what you have tabled here does not need to be answered. There's no question. When you ask me what Mr Statakis did in the TTIP discussions, I'm unreserved to answer. And you targeted the question wrong, which is completely vague. What do you want me to say? What's the truck? The general political debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u189	He's a specialist, Minister. It's not general.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u190	So ask Mr. Stathakis, if he's a specialist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u191	You have nothing to say, Mr. Bolaris, neither are you nor Mr. Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, to conclude, it is quite clear that the Government on the question of feta, whose PDO - to clarify - is European legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u193	I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u194	But I didn't come here to have a dialogue. I came to answer a question. If you want me to answer, let me answer. So there is very clearly European legislation, and on this basis we are also operating as a ministry and as a country and as a Europe. And on the basis of this legislation, we are fighting to support it. There are violations. There are European countries that, while respecting the PDO within the European Union, produce products called "feta" and export them. And there is the process of the Ministry of Defence in these situations. There is also preparation with the Legal Council of State, by the Ministers responsible for responding to the wrong Czech strategy, which is preparing to violate European Union law on yoghurt. Know that the effort that is being made to defend the Greek producers, to defend the local economy, the national economy, the whole productive sector, so development, is becoming obscene and vigilant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, too. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know very well what this is about and what we came to discuss here. It's absolutely specific. It's not a more general policy. It's about feta, as Mr. Cassidy said, just like I told you. Unfortunately, or luckily - I do not know - these debates and discussions include a wide range of products and issues involving both the Ministry and the Ministry to which Mr Stathakis is headed, because once Mr Apostle goes, once Mr Stathakis goes. All this is interconnected. You said that the protected designation of origin is European legislation. I told you at first, too. But I told you something else, which you probably did not understand. I told you that when Greek feta producers fled to the courts in Turkey and other countries using cheese called "feta", they were entitled. And when the agreement was reached between the European Union and Canada, where Greek governments were officially prevented - unfortunately - from being called 'feta' by the Greek governments, they were begging the producers of fetas not to sign and let them run the matter judicially. We are now telling you the same thing in the case of the agreement with the six countries of South Africa. We are telling you again that because feta is probably the most famous - rather the number one - cheese product on the whole, it has huge potential for growth not only for the hundreds of thousands who are directly employed in the production of feta in our home country, but could be much more so that some of our one and a half fellow citizens who are unemployed could also be involved in the production of feta. You also rightly said that European Union countries are exporting abroad and that is why they are doing these agreements with the South African countries and with Canada, as is unfortunately the case with the United States. This is because it is of interest to them, since they will export their product to all the lengths and backs of the world as "feta style", "feta style" or anything else. And I come to something that is not here, but we will simply mention it, because we will come back to it. At the same time, with the discussions that are taking place on this TTIP agreement with the United States, there are discussions on an imminent agreement that is much more dirty and sloppy, the CETA agreement. According to this, and in case with Canada, but also with the United States - if the TTIP agreement is finally signed - there will be private administrative courts in which they will resort - to understand what is happening for Greek citizens and producers - the multinationals who will have manufactured a white cheese product in their country, which will be called "feta type" or "feta type" or something else. I think they're gonna call it "feta" after a while, without anything else. And this product can be made from genetically modified dairy rabbits and present as feta. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So this product will be brought to the European Union, and because private administrative courts will be able to circumvent European legislation, they will resort to it and the right will be won by Americans or other multinationals to sell in our home country feta, as I have said, unrelated to you, or beans' olives which can be made of apples that are vaccinated in America by MONSANTO, and we will not be able to do anything. For this reason, we are hitting the alarm and we will continue to hit him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u197	Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor to answer the question on which you have been asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u198	Look. This is not a question of transfer of responsibility, but there is a process that is under way and what matters is where someone wants to catch the rope. Here are statements such as 'I do not return unless the Prime Minister saves the feta' - it has a name - 'If you give Canada the feta, the government will fall' etc. The story is old. And you know the story is old.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u199	Do not repeat North Africa again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u200	What I would like to say to you is this: from the Ministry - and this is important - we have legal preparation for the matter of yoghurt with this country - a partner in the European Union, but also with other countries which, while respecting legislation - the PDO - within the European Union, do not respect it in their exports. And this is something our Ministry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs informs business followers internationally. So the protection issue is what we need to do. With regard to the TTIP agreement now, there is no answer to this question. When there are issues and we will have concrete information, the government very gladly through the relevant ministers, those involved in the negotiation, should come not only to answer questions, but also to tell the Greek citizens what the agreement is, in what direction it is, what it is, how it is best, how the Greek interests are promoted and what the course of the negotiations is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, too. The sixth question will be discussed under number 926/30-5-2016 of the New Republic MP Arta Georgios Styliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the payment of the minimum possible coupled aid to citrus producers. Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am addressing you on an issue that is very important and very serious for the citrus producers concerned with my region and other regions of our country. In accordance with the relevant Ministerial Decision of March 2015, the total annual budget for the linked aid for oranges to be juiced amounts to EUR 9 million per year and the area to twenty-eight thousand five hundred hectares or two hundred five thousand acres. However, while the activated acres are about - according to the latest declarations - a hundred and fifteen thousand, your ministry chooses to give the related aid, to pay the producers concerned on the basis of the indicative price calculated at around EUR 31.6 per acre. As a result, almost two thirds of the total annual budget will remain indisposed. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] While, Minister, the European Union allows the calculation of the associated aid on the basis of the clay, the allocation of the amount to the acres declared, the Ministry has chosen to pay at the indicative price for the time being. I would mention that for Artas, the consequences will be disastrous because a large part of the local society is based on the cultivation of citrus fruit. You also know that by the latest laws that have voted on how much production costs have been incurred for Greek farmers by increasing taxation, increasing oil, tax on subsidies and so many other measures that have been voted on by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Do you, Minister, intend to apply the possibility of calculating the associated aid on the basis of the budgetary ratio to the eligible hectares? What will be the associated aid per acre for oranges to be juiced and when will it be paid to the beneficiaries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u203	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, you know very well that we are operating within an institutional framework which is European and Greek. Please refer to your question in the Ministerial Decision of 2015 setting out the details of the associated aid in the orange sector that is guided by juicement. Article 2 of this decision, which comes out under the European Regulation, specifies that for 2015 the budget is 9 million, as you said. At the same time, we have the reference area at country level determined, as Regulation 1307/2013, which is set at twenty-eighths of five hundred hectares. The same decision under the European Regulation determines that beneficiaries of the associated aid for orange juice are farmers fulfilling two eligibility conditions: First, they shall deliver for harvesting in the year from 1 January to 31 December at least seven tonnes of oranges per hectare, and this proportion shall be calculated on the basis of all deliveries and total areas of oranges. And that is the result of the producers' statement, that is not the case by the Government, it is the statements of a single application for aid submitted to the OPECE. This is important. And that solves your problem. Deliveries to manufacturing enterprises shall be made through defined bodies. It is then laid down that the support is paid in the form linked on an annual basis and the exact amount of aid is determined by a decision of the Minister. In order not to cut off the section of the answer, Mr President, for this purpose the OPECE shall, as provided for by the European Regulation, notify the total number of eligible hectares of oranges to be aided each year. What does "recognize" mean? 'Notify' means that the European Union knows that, we tell the consumer, producers know that. Therefore, the amount of the associated aid, on the basis of the European Regulation and the Ministerial Decisions, is determined to be EUR 316 per hectare, as determined by the recent Ministerial Decision. Payment will be made in the next few days, in June, in the next fortnight. Therefore, with this data, a process of changing the method of payment under the European Regulation does not exist. It would be very good if we could come back. We have announced everything in line with the European regulation. It is all open, it is all transparent, it is well known to producers, it is well known in the European Union, it is known to those who control and the financing procedures. Any other logic is a violation of the European regulation. This violation may also be a merciful one, but it involves sanctions, which the state and the producers are finally paying for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to inform you of the following: in accordance with European Regulation 639/2014, Article 53(2) describes how the related aid is granted. So there it says that this price is based on the ratio of the annual amount allocated to the aid or reference acres - so we are talking about the indicative price you mentioned and I mentioned in my first speech - or the eligible crops of that year. So here we are talking about the real price. So the regulation - I repeat -639/2014, Article 53(2) of the European Union is divisive and gives us the second opportunity. I would therefore like to say, Minister, that there is a big issue. Why have only a hundred and fifteen thousand hectares been declared? Was the Greek producers not informed? Didn't it happen right? And where has this information come from? This briefing, Minister, emerged from Decision 446/24-3-2015, taken by the Minister for Rural Development and Food only two months after taking up his duties. Should this ministerial decision, then, should your Minister, the Minister of Government SYRIZA - ANEL, provide for and arrange, by putting the divorce in place, if the European regulation enables him? Secondly, should your government, even now, at the last minute, proceed with some energy so that the producers who individually gave their sums, their crops in industry can declare their production and thus increase the eligible hectares? Finally, Minister, if the conditions that I mentioned before are not met, if you do not go along with some of these actions and initiatives, you know that, out of the nine million euros, a sum of EUR 5 million will remain indisposed. And it will not be left unreserved to be given elsewhere, it will be returned to the European Union. Is this a time and time when we can allow money to be sent back to the European Union? I was also informed by various decisions taken at the Ministry of Rural Development that you have passed from 20% to some products up to 100% the indicative price you give those products. I'm talking about rice, wheat, industrial tomato. Why is that on specific productions? Are they referring to specific areas, and does the government have a special reason to support them and turn the back on orange producers, turn the back to Arta, Argolida, Laconia and so many other regions of our country? Minister, we want to help the producers, we want to support the Greek citizens, under the regulations. That is why we ask you to exhaust every limit. I tell you - and my fellow citizens also know - that I am fighting and will continue to fight for the fairs and interests of my region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u207	Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much. I'll just say two words. Mr Colleagues, you are well aware of the issue of the weakness that exists for specific regions. The lack of serious producer groups is the one which creates a major disadvantage in specific areas. In the regions where the producer groups worked, bringing together the quantities for both exports to Europe and around the world, but also making use of all the funds. And the prices they got for exports are much better. There is a question in some areas where, with the collapse of former associations, there are no new producer groups, farmers and orange producers in this case, they are alone and are helpless. The result is - and you know it very well - that they're going to trucks and they're loading through the fields and they're getting obsessed with oranges. This leads to a collapse of the price of the product. In the areas where we have organised groups and export and organised juices or organised withdrawals are quite different. There is, indeed, a challenge for the region. There's really a challenge. I, you know, personally, called the producers of Artas and their representatives. They came to the Ministry and I said to them: "Here you have a problem. We'll lose money from this job." And the meetings I made public. There is a question, because they are individually exposed to trade and trade. This is not only done in Arta, it is done in other areas, which we do not have serious organisations. It's a challenge. In the new PAA there is care to fund not just the new producers, but the producer groups and financial support to make packings, refrigerators, so that we can have a serious export power. The production we have for oranges is far greater than the country's consumer demand. So, in order to be able to stand and support producers, we need to make export infrastructures. Where there are, miracles actually take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u209	Thank you. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 125a]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifteen students and students and four teachers from Ukrainian Sabbath Schools in Greece. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At this point, ladies and gentlemen, we will suspend the debate on the topical and urgent questions, in order to get into legislative work and move on to the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Resolution at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: "Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country - Establishment of a Development Council and other provisions". Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet and sit down. A request has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 3, 7 and 67 by Members of the Golden Dawn, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u211	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Michaeliakos Nikolaos. Abstentions. Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vlachos Salvation. Here. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. Here. Mr. Ilioopoulos Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Caracos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Koukoutsis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Michos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Mr. Poppa Christos. Here you go. Mr. Shahinides John. Here you go. Mr. Hajisavasavas Christos. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10) minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 3, 7 and 67 of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: "Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country - Establishment of a Development Council and other provisions". Receiving the principle and Articles 3, 7 and 67 of the bill say ‘NEI’. The non-accepting authorities and Articles 3, 7 and 67 of the bill say ‘OH’. The voters say 'PARON'. On the list, Mrs Panagiota Dritsel is called by SYRIZA and Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on the principle and on Articles 3, 7 and 67 of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u213	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Members of the European Parliament have already taken part in this debate. Amanatidis Ioannis, Skrekas Konstantinos, Fortsakis Theodoros, Kefalidou Charas, Venizelos Evangelos, Scandalidis Konstantinos, Genemas Fofis and Theocharis Theocharis do not attend today's roll-call vote and by letter they give us their vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] In the meantime, until the count is completed, we are voting on the rest of the other articles and on the amendment. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u216	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u217	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u218	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u219	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u220	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u221	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u222	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u223	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u224	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u225	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u226	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u228	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u229	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u230	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u231	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u232	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u233	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 3 has been put into roll-call vote. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u234	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u235	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u237	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u238	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u239	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u240	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u241	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u242	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u243	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u244	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u245	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u247	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u248	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u249	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u250	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u251	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u252	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u253	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u254	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u255	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u256	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u257	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u258	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u259	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u260	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 7 has been put into roll-call vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u261	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u262	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u263	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u264	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u265	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u266	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u267	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u268	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u269	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u270	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u271	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u272	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u273	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u274	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u275	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u276	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u277	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u278	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u279	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u280	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u281	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u282	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u283	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u284	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u285	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u286	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u287	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u288	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u289	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u290	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u291	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u292	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u293	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u294	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u295	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u296	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u297	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u298	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u299	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u300	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u301	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u302	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u303	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u304	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u305	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u306	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u307	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u308	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u309	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u310	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u311	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u312	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u313	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u314	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u315	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u316	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u317	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u318	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u319	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u320	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u321	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u322	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u323	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u324	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u325	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u327	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u328	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u329	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u330	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u331	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u332	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u333	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u334	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u335	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u336	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u337	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u338	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u339	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u340	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u341	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u342	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u343	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u344	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u345	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u346	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u347	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u348	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u349	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u350	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u351	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u352	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u354	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u355	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u356	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u357	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u358	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u359	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u360	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u361	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u362	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u363	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u364	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u365	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u366	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u367	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u368	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u369	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u370	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u371	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u372	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u373	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u374	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u375	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u376	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u377	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u378	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u379	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u380	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u381	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u382	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u383	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u384	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u385	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u386	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u387	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u388	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u389	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u390	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u391	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u392	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u393	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u394	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u395	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u396	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u397	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u398	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u399	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u400	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u401	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u402	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u403	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u404	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u405	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u406	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u408	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u409	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u410	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u411	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u412	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u413	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u414	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u415	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u417	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u418	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u419	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u420	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u421	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u422	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u423	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u424	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u425	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u426	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u427	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u428	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u429	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u430	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u431	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u432	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u433	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u434	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u435	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u436	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u437	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u438	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u439	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u440	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u441	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u442	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u443	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u444	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u445	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u446	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u447	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u448	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u449	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u450	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u451	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u452	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u453	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u454	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u455	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u456	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u457	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u458	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u459	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u460	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u461	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u462	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u463	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u464	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u465	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u466	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u467	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u468	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u469	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u470	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u471	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u472	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u473	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u474	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u475	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u476	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u477	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u478	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u479	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u480	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u481	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u482	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u483	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u484	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u485	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u486	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u487	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u488	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u489	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u490	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u491	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u492	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u493	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u494	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u495	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u496	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u497	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u498	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u499	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u500	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u501	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u502	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u503	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u504	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u505	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u506	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u507	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u508	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u509	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u510	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u511	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u512	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u513	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u514	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u515	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u516	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u518	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u519	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u520	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u521	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u522	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u523	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u524	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u525	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u526	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u527	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u528	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u529	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u530	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 38 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u531	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u532	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u533	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u534	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u535	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u536	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u537	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u538	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u539	Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u540	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u541	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u542	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u544	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u545	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u547	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u548	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u549	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u550	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u551	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u552	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u553	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u554	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u555	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u556	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u557	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u558	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u559	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u561	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u562	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u563	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u564	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u565	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u566	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u567	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u568	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u569	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u570	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u571	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u572	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u574	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u575	Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u576	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u577	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u578	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u579	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u580	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u581	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u582	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u583	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u584	Article 43 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u585	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u586	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u587	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u589	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u590	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u591	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u592	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u593	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u594	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u595	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u596	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u597	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u598	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u599	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u600	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u601	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u602	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u603	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u604	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u605	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u606	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u607	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u608	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u609	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u610	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u611	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u612	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u613	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u615	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u616	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u617	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u619	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u620	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u621	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u622	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u623	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u624	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u625	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u626	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u627	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u628	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u629	Article 48 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u630	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u631	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u632	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u634	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u635	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u636	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u637	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u638	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u639	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u640	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u641	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u642	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u643	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u644	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u645	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u646	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u647	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u648	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u649	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u650	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u651	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u652	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u653	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u654	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u655	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u656	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u657	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u658	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u659	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u660	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u661	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u662	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u663	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u664	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u665	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u666	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u667	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u668	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u669	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u670	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u671	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u672	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u673	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u674	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u675	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u676	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u677	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u678	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u679	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u680	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u681	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u682	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u683	Article 54 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u684	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u685	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u686	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u688	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u689	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u690	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u691	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u692	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u693	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u694	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u695	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u696	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u697	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u698	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u699	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u700	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u701	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u702	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u703	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u705	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u706	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u707	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u708	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u709	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u710	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u711	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u712	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u713	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u714	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u715	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u716	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u717	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u718	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u719	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u720	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u721	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u722	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u723	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u724	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u725	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u726	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u727	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u728	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u729	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u730	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u731	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u732	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u733	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u734	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u735	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u736	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u737	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u738	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u739	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u740	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u742	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u743	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u744	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u745	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u746	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u747	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u748	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u749	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u750	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u751	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u752	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u753	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u754	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u755	Article 62 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u756	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u757	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u758	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u760	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u761	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u762	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u763	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u764	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u765	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u766	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u767	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u768	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u769	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u770	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u771	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u772	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u773	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u774	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u775	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u776	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u777	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u778	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u779	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u780	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u781	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u782	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u783	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u784	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u785	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u786	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u787	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u788	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u789	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u790	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u791	Article 66 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority. Rule 67 has been put in roll-call vote. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u792	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u793	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u794	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u795	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u796	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u797	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u798	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u799	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u800	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u801	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u802	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u803	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u804	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u805	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u806	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u807	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u808	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u809	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u810	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u811	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u813	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u814	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u815	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u816	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u817	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u818	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 71 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u819	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u820	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u821	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u822	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u823	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u824	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u825	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u826	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u827	Article 71 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u828	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u829	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u830	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u831	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u832	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u833	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u834	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u835	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u836	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u837	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u838	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u839	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u840	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u841	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u842	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u843	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u844	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u845	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u846	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u847	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u848	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u849	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u850	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u851	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u852	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u853	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u854	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u855	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u856	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u858	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u859	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u860	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u861	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u862	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u863	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 76 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u864	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u865	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u866	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u867	Here you go. Our proposal was to extend the plans until 31-12-2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u868	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u869	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u870	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u871	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u872	Article 76 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 77 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u873	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u874	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u875	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u876	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u877	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u878	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u879	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u880	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u881	Article 77 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u882	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u883	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u884	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u885	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u886	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u887	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u888	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u889	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u890	Article 78 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u891	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u892	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u893	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u894	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u895	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u896	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u897	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u898	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u899	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u900	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u901	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u902	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u903	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u904	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u905	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u906	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u907	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u908	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u909	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u910	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u912	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u913	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u914	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u915	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u916	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u917	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u918	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u919	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u921	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u922	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u923	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u924	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u925	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u926	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 83 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u927	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u928	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u930	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u931	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u932	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u933	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u934	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u935	Article 83 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u936	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u937	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u938	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u940	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u941	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u942	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u943	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u944	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 85 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u945	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u946	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u948	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u949	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u950	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u951	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u952	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u953	Article 85 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 496 and a special number 25, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u954	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u955	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u956	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u957	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u958	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u959	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u960	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u961	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u962	Therefore, Amendment No 496 and special number 25 were accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u963	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 265 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'OH', they voted 101 MPs. "PARON" 12 MPs voted. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: "Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country - Establishment of a Development Council and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. In favour of Rule 3, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 234 Members. Against Rule 3, i.e. 'NO', 31 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. In favour of Rule 7, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Pursuant to Rule 7, i.e. 'OECD', 113 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. In favour of Rule 67, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. Against Rule 67, i.e. 'HO', they voted 101 Members. "PARON" 12 MPs voted. Article 67 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u964	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u965	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u966	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u967	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u968	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u969	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u970	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u971	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u972	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u973	Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: "Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country - Establishment of a Development Council and other provisions" was accepted in principle and in the majority of articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u974	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u975	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u976	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u977	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u978	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u979	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u980	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u981	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u982	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u983	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country - Establishment of a Development Council and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u984	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u985	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u986	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION REQUESTS FOR APPROVAL OF BULGARIA Discussion and decision, in accordance with Rules 62 of the Constitution and 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr. Triantafyllos Mitafidis, Christos Beyalas, Paul Pavlaki and Mr. Michou. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 10-6-2016, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that the immunity of Mr.Metafides should not be waived. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 10-6-2016, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed to waive the immunity of Mr Christos Beyalas. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 10-6-2016, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that the waiver of Mr Paul Polakis’ immunity should be waived. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 10-6-2016, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed the waiver of Mr Nikolaos Michou's immunity. Under Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity or to prosecution, prosecution or indictment conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament shall also decide, by means of an extension or extension, on the request of the Prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have accepted in respect of applications for waiver of immunity, the House has decided by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote in which each fellow Member lists his name, his constituency and his parliamentary group will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns my colleague, Mr Mitafidis. The second case concerns Mr Christo Beyala. The third case concerns Mr Paulo Polakis. The fourth case concerns Mr Nikolao Micho. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u987	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to explain to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u988	Mr. Mitafidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u989	This case, of course, concerns the period since I had been a municipal councillor in the Municipality of Thessaloniki and was in 2011. It was a unanimous regulatory decision of the City Council of Thessaloniki, with which we tried to put order in the abundance of two well-known streets, pedestrian streets of Thessaloniki. One, for the old Thessalonians, is known as the School Street, which is unfortunately now a pedestrian bankrupt, so that the neighboring school cannot function. It was the best possible solution we gave, changing the placement of the bank seats. This unanimous decision was also adopted by the Decentralised Administration. Two of the local residents, however, disagreed with this decision by the City Council, appealed against the decision, and so there was persecution against us. I would like to tell you, however, that this case has now ended in court, as the Thessaloniki Council unanimously decided that there is no reason to prosecute us, because there is no violation of duty. That is what I wanted to say to the House's knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u990	Thank you. Does the second request for waiver of immunity seek a colleague to take the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u991	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u992	Mr. Beyalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u993	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a funny matter, which has no basis. It is a verbal dispute - which, on my part, has been neither excitement nor threat, nor is it my character nor my idiosyncrasies - with a gentleman who has been my personal abusive for many years since I was a mayor and who has made an observation to his outraged areas. Whenever he found any chance, he beat me up. In this case I commented on him and began to awkward my parents, even my thirteen - year - old son with unheard of expressions and threatening me. I only answered him that "you're crazy and I can't talk to you" and I left. From there on, he went and sued me. That was on July 25, when I was not a Member of Parliament at that time. That's the case. It's a funny case. I would ask, as I have said in committee, that immunity be waived in order to clarify the matter in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u994	Thank you. Is there any colleague who wishes to speak under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure in the third case of waiving immunity? Oh, no. Is there any colleague who wants to speak in the fourth case of waiving immunity? Oh, no. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Anyone who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity will note his preference next to the Member's name and to the 'NAI' column, that is to say, 'NAI' to the prosecutor's request for the waiver of immunity. Any colleague who votes against the waiver of immunity will take note next to the Member's name and the 'OHIM' column respectively. Any colleague who votes for the 'PPE' vote will take it in the corresponding column of the vote. The vote will take place on the list of Members, their own constituency and the parliamentary group, to which it belongs, and will sign it, because the vote is roll-call in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Then, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will give the ballot to colleagues and so on. Anastasia Garas by SYRIZA and Apostolos Veyropoulos from New Democracy, who will monograph it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote, the votes will be counted by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the votes, which will be recorded together with the protocol of vote in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u995	So the House unanimously agreed. I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u996	Mr President, Mr. Michus wants to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u997	We have reached the end of the process. I had previously asked who would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u998	Yeah, but I told you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u999	If the House has no objection, I have no objection. As far as I can see, no one disagrees, I will give the floor to Mr Micho. Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1000	Thank you, Mr President. I am accused of a case, which is not even a felony and has turned into a felony. The accountants, even two sworn very large accountants, told me that it was a "stage", clearly because I belong to the Golden Dawn. I would like to make a reference to the laundry of the parties - the New Democracy, the PASOK - for the money that has been lost and no one has been tried, nor has anyone been tried to remove parliamentary immunity, there is no person responsible for the laundry of the channels that there is no one responsible for the pimps of HOCHTIEF, who do not pay VAT to the Greek State and who has never been accused. I will return to the previous government, for the mice of Michalakis, the Minister, who went to the home of a great businessman to find evidence of the Golden Dawn and found evidence of Michalakis and covered the subject, even by you of SYRIZA, because at the same time you had covered the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of Minister Stathakis for 1.5 million at the time from the University of Crete, as covered by Mr Stathakis for the 1.5 million he "forgot" to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1001	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1002	All right, all right. You make them as you wish, Mr. Contony. Don't make fun of the people, your voters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1003	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1004	What shouldn't we be making fun of? There's a court order. The man has been rid of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1005	Yes, we've seen Mr. Polakis' goodness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1006	Please, Mr. Micho, refer to the case of lifting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1007	Mr President, I have to deal with this because we are talking about huge sums of millions of money that have been made available to offshore companies abroad. Because I have no offshore company in England, as Kathimerini has written a few days ago, someone else has. Look at the hates of submarines that no one has ever been tried and has never been referred here and leave me. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to go to court and apologize. My evidence will show them there. I'm sure I'll be innocent. I will not even sit in the vote. So look at the laundry I told you about. Look at the Lagard lists and Westphalia - Rhineland that no one has spoken with, as well as eight other lists, because they are too many players in our country, and leave us alone. I'm going to continue my fight. There is no way you can terrorize me with economic issues or with anything else from there and beyond what you think. I'm telling you again: I want to go to court and go to court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1008	Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament are invited on the list. Panagiota Dritsel by SYRIZA and Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1009	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1010	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, until the count is completed and we have the result, we are coming back to the debate on topical and urgent questions so that we can get time. We begin with our second question under number 976/10-6-2016.Previous second question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the return of the Department of Balkan Studies from Thessaloniki to Florina. The Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mrs. Ithanasia Anagnostopopoulos. Mr. Antoniadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1011	Minister, with the famous 'ATHENA' project on education reform in the Florina region alone - from all over western Macedonia - a real crime occurred at the expense of both education and the country. An entire section of Balkan Studies with eight hundred students and twenty-six LAG members, who know they are difficult to find, moved to Thessaloniki. This section, which was created with great effort and effort, was the front and intellectual and cultural cooperation with the neighbouring states of Albania, FYROM - and not only - Serbia, Bulgaria, with all the Balkans. A section of this atrocious corner of our country cannot be transferred, from where it could offer everything for the spiritual and cultural development of the region, just to satisfy ministries or the desire of teachers to go to Thessaloniki, to the center. It is known that they find work in the province and then everyone wants to move downtown. Request for all residents, Minister, is the restoration of this injustice, the return of the Department of Balkan Studies in Florina, to continue the spiritual and cultural work for which it was created. It is essential to send the message in all directions, that syndicate interests do not define and define the general course of education and education. I ask, then, when do you think, Minister, that this injustice should be lifted? Of course, our proposal is to make the decision now and apply it from September 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1012	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1013	Mr Colleague, in this Chamber, in the context of parliamentary control, I have talked to many times about the "ATHENA" project as a monument to truly irrational redeployment of the area of higher education, which has affected both the academic structure and functioning of the departments and higher institutions and the place. You know very well that the ATHENA project is a project which has been drawn up and implemented on your own government, and it is not the first time that we have dealt with such issues. I would agree that the case of the Balkan studies department in Florina is absolutely part of this irrational reorganization. I say this because even the IPPP is unable to assess the impact of the ATHENA project, because it does not have the strategic criterion, on the basis of which this project was made. I will not be far away, saying what was working in the city of Florina, before the "ATHENA" project, that the structures of the university there covered much of the students and their shelter and their feeding. I very much agree that, in terms of academics, neighbouring with neighbouring states, which are the Balkan states, would be very useful in this case. I think you're right about that. But I would like to say another thing that you have noted and to say it in this Chamber, for it to be heard. It is very right that you say that teachers are elected in one area, and then they become the weakest, to be transferred to another. I have this on the subject of the University of Patras and the departments of Agrinio. I have this issue on many occasions, while someone is elected there, it does the impossible and then it does not support the part in which it was elected. For this particular section now, the Department of Balkan Studies Florina has not come to me with any request yet at the Ministry from the University of Western Macedonia. I'm expecting a request to sit down and talk. You know - and this is not an escape, because I say it very seriously - that we say that the reform was completely irrational on the basis of the 'Athena' project. We cannot now in a month decide that they are closed, that they are merged, that is what they are resurrecting. I have asked both the presidents of the TEIs and university leaders to give their opinion on how universities should operate. This does not take the blame away from us, but it takes us a little time to see this issue rationally now. To tell you, too, another clear example, such as that of the Department of Balkan Studies in Florina: There was the Department of Architecture Engineers at the same University, which was based in Kastoria. Suddenly with the project "ATHENA" it was renamed to Department of Environmental Engineering and transferred to Kosani. I'm waiting for a strike from the university to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1014	Mr. Antoniadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1015	Minister, first of all, I can say that it is a good answer, which you have given on the intentions. Because, of course, we live in Greece and until the intentions are translated into actions, there will be too many interests. I'm starting at the syndicates. I'm glad. I will convey this view, which you have and we will discuss it with the Republican Republican of the University of Western Macedonia. I hope they too will be positive to this. Do not forget, however, that as fellow professors - and I am a teacher - we know what will happen in the intervening period and what pressures will be put on the Ministry to avoid returning the department. I'm only telling you that at the moment, departments of the University of Florina are doing postgraduate studies in Thessaloniki, while they are based in Florina. While undergraduate studies for Florina, all work is done in Thessaloniki. If ever possible! Slowly, the teachers themselves undermine the function, supposedly there is an infrastructure problem, a dysfunctional problem, so that they can go to the urban centres. Nevertheless, I have mentioned these risks which are at stake. From now on - we, of course, do not want in no time at all and so soon - must discuss it. There will be an integrated proposal from the University of Western Macedonia. We'll be in touch. We hope that this injustice will be restored, because it is, in fact, a great injustice both for Florinna and for education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1016	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1017	I am very pleased, Mr Antoniadis, to see how you deal with this. I, too, believe that these issues, which parts open up, should be a product of consensus in this House and should not be a means for disputes, etc., because it is not about me, not you, or you, or anyone. I would also like to say that - and you are doing so well in this Chamber - that there is a postgraduate study programme in Thessaloniki and that it is done in Thessaloniki. For what? And there - you know that, maybe better than me - the ministry can't interfere all the time. It is also a question of the ethos of universities and universities to maintain these sections where the state decided, together with the institutions, to have these departments and operate there. And one last thing: we must stop a little, through the highest institutions, there must also be this local 'kill', that is, that my own must exist here and in the next city I do not care if there is one. If anyone goes to heal such an injustice, pick up another city. I'm telling you, because we have Patras and the Tower. I said about a section of Patras that it needs to work and raise the tower, because he was afraid to close his own. That's not how it works. I therefore believe that the consensus between the parties on these issues is very useful and I thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1018	Thank you. Series is the sixth under number 980/13-6-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the Athens MP, Potamios Spyridon Lykoudi, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on vandalism in statues in the center of Athens. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1019	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you and I and all of us were told the other day that the Spiritual Center of Athens was attacked, in a sense, by perpetrators and stolen four mountain busts a day and the next day, I suppose, the perpetrators were themselves - obviously assuming that they do and take what they want, came back and took the fifth bust. Based on the news, the mountainous busts of Kostas Uranis, Angelos Terzakis, Kostis Bastia, Giorgos Theotokas and the next day of Pantelis Horn. This event brings to light once again the issues related to the proper functioning, life, security and the way the people of Athens experience in the capital. There are, Minister - and you know it - parts of the capital that are full of life. There are streets of great interest and walking them, it opens your heart to walk them. They're full of people and diffuse civilization. There are also signs in the capital that fear and decline are diffuse. One of these points is the Spiritual Center of the municipality. There are, unfortunately, our drug addicted fellow citizens who use 20 meters of drugs from the Academy Street or from Solon Street and there is the objective difficulty, which for all the citizens of Athens is obvious, that is to say, passing through the space and visiting him with the comfort that a citizen visits his home, which is his city. I wanted to ask you whether you have a particular plan in mind to protect these parts of our city, the capital, which have problems with decline and fear and, if it is not yours, it is more a matter of the Ministry of Health - in relation to a possible cooperation with the Minister of Health you think if you can deal with in a different way in areas that have our drug addicted fellow citizens who make day-to-day use of drugs in this particular area, which is precisely in the center of Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1020	Mr. Toska, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1021	Madam President, Mr Lykoudi, in fact despite the enormous efforts of the Municipality of Athens, which have been made for the police and the plans implemented by the Greek Police in the directions of the Ministry of Civil Protection and which have been attributed to many areas - I should like to mention the area of Mars, to mention the Viktoria square in terms of the existence of immigrants and refugees - there are areas like the one you mentioned in the centre of Athens, for which we are not happy with the situation that prevails and regrets us the case of theft of the bustling of the busts. You know, of course, that where there is a great concentration of dependents, that's where all kinds of intrusion arises. The situation in this region between the University, the Academy and the Cultural Centre is not good with regard to the accumulation of dependents. And here I will explain the situation, which you know, because you have the sensitivities that we have. I was beginning to give orders to remove these people. I thought that the removal of these people would bring about a differentiated situation and a good result. I had a conversation with the Mayor of Athens, I had a conversation with the Ministry of Health. Things are more complicated and are not just solved by using police methods. The removal of these people from there would result in bad in other areas. So, since last month, since 20.5.2016, a meeting took place. There has been an agreement and monuments have been signed between the district of the Municipality of Athens, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Civil Protection for co-operation and the creation of direct access centres of the OkANA - Okanaa, which has a central role to play - so that these people can get away from there and go find a refuge with elementary dignity and a restaurant that is built by the Municipality of Athens near these direct access centres. We have been computing since September and beyond to be able to implement this plan. I see from time to time a differentiation in the situation and a reduction in the phenomenon. Of course, the question arises as follows: What are we doing to these two - three months? We've already increased policing in this area. But, speaking of scientific, serious changes, they will be implemented since I told you. There are, of course, details in this design.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1022	All right, Mr. Toska, 'cause I've been uploading time. Fill in the three-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1023	Okay. I'm stopping. I'm continuing in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1024	Please, Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1025	Minister, I have not connected the issue of our drug addicted fellow citizens with thefts. I just said that in the same space there were and there are. And I say it because, first of all, I have no right to make such a connection. Our toxic-dependent fellow citizens need more than care, support and solidarity than any other type of repression. I have just linked the two topics to tell you that there are areas in the center of Athens, which are extremely defamatory for the city itself, for the capital, for whoever loves it, in any case. Is that right? I'm one of those who were born, grew up in Athens, and I love my city. There is one question, the question of how free those who pursue and move on to vandalism feel, much more when these vandalisms are not even made as a kind of resistance to the establishment, but for very specific economic reasons. There are two hundred busts in Athens, two hundred seventy-four sculptures, of which fifty-four are from brass. Everything's in danger, Minister. Fifteen of them were found in Aspropyrgos, in a foundry. There's gonna be more there for the sake of absolute cheap, economical. And that's a matter. No one collects them for his collection, so he can see them and the Athenians won't see them. They're picking up and melting them. Here we need protection on the substance of the matter and you are responsible for doing so. The issue of our city, Minister, is not a matter of opposition. I'm telling you very well. I'm making this kind of criticism to get us to know what we're going to do with the city. It is not possible to read and hear that the Mayor of Athens will collect the vultures concerning the sites for which it has competence, and take them to store them to rescue them. We are ashamed of this development. And we're not ashamed of what the mayor does. It may not be possible for man to do anything else, to have no other means. But is it not shame for all of us, as Athenian citizens, that the busts of those who have shaped the historical course of the city's or country's culture to hide them in warehouses instead of keeping them in the center of the city, so that we can get the schools to see them and tell the children what each of them is? Is it possible to hide them so we don't lose them? It's a matter, Minister. We also need to see what happens with the issue of burnt buses. I know you're making an effort, I read it in the papers. I'm guessing you wouldn't have put your family on a bus that's leaving Omonia to go to Hive, because you'd be afraid she'd never get there. We have to do something about it. And the answer is obviously not a wave of repression, but something needs to be done with a concrete plan to deal with this kind of 'function' - in fact mismanagement - in the capital field. Minister, I'm sure you're hurting Athens, too. We have to do something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1026	Mr. Toska, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1027	Mr Lykoudis, I understand your suggestions and criticism in a context of constructive and exchange of views, so that solutions can be found quickly for the various problems. Therefore, there is no controversy but only constructive dialogue. You know that right now the police, maybe after many years it acts with very large design and a very large target. We didn't create an angelic false world. There are problem areas and in this area we will all fight in order to correct situations. Of course, the various infringements are linked. We are not happy with the various incidents, nor with the incidents that have a basis for the West Attica and the foundries that you have said, nor with any other incidents in places such as Exarches. And that's where we move in a method, system and design. Of course, if anyone thinks that all of this is solved in one day or in one month he will lie. But any proposals, in order to speed up planning and have faster results, are very happy to welcome at any time criticism of course. Because we make mistakes on a daily basis, as we try on a daily basis. We are investigating the issue of busts, as well as the various foundries in the areas we all know, and we are looking to see how we can control these areas with regard to these sites that are sometimes handy of foundries and control over the various returning places in the center of Athens, in order to collect metal objects. It's not an easy case. In the same way we are trying to control - and you will soon see results - the other places where there is increased infraction, whether public transport or other issues. You have seen results in the time we are trying and you will see more now that the situation is somehow stabilised in terms of the refugee situation and police forces are being released to chase the common crime and there is better policing. We are trying with huge problems and planning that might not have been at all and I think we will soon see results too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1028	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 177 Members voted. On the case of Mr Mitafidis, Mr Trinidad and Mr Mitafidis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 2 Members voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 173 MPs. They voted for 2 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. On the case of Mr Christos Beyalas: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 105 Members. Immunity, i.e. 'OH', voted 68 MPs. They voted for 4 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[Change Page]] [[To enter pages 241a and 241b]] On the case of Mr Paul Paul Polakis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 95 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 80 MPs. They voted for 2 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. On the case of Mr Nicholas Michus: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. 2 Members voted against the lifting of immunity. Vote 'PARTS' no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1029	We are returning to the debate on the topical and urgent questions. The fourth question by number 972-9-6-2016 will be discussed in the context of the second question by the Member of Parliament on Serres of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Mikhail Jelelis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the impact on farmers of pensioners under the new Insurance Act 4387/2016. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1030	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, with the beginning of the application of the new insurance law, by Law No.4387 of the SYRIZA - ANEL, the negative effects of this law on pensioners have already begun to be seen. Reductions in pensioners with regard to EKRD, supplementary pensions, the one-off one, and the main pensions for newly unemployed people from here and beyond, the 30% pensions provided for. However, I would like to concentrate particularly on farmers. Already farmers these days see an increase in their insurance contributions that reaches 25%. I am talking specifically about one category, about the fourth category from EUR 1096 to EUR 1467 for six hundred and fifty-seven thousand farmers. However, what has really upset farmers is that with Law No4387 and Article 20(6), as has been done, on the same right of pensioners, those insured in the single social security institution who take over work, acquire status or activity necessarily in charge of ECA insurance, gross pensions - main and subsidiary - are paid reduced by 60%. So, in spite of all the promises, with the abolition of the OGA and its inclusion in the Single Social Security Agency, under this provision, new outgoing farmers, farmers who are connected with their land, the farmers of EUR 330 will receive 60% reductions, that is, they will receive a pension of EUR 120? We want to understand that. I would also like you to clarify what is happening with regard to the cylindrical system and the current pensioners before the adoption of this law. Since the OGA has now joined the Single Security Agency, I would like to ask, Minister, if it is your intention to maintain the existing organisational structure of the OGA in the region with the three and a half thousand correspondents, why you understand and know very well that the agricultural pension will now be calculated in five pieces. These five pieces to be calculated, they need a skilled staff. If the three and a half thousand respondents in the region are abolished, will the farmer be forced to go to the mountain regions - and I close, Madam President - from the remote regions, to find information where? The Single Occupant? IKA's branch offices? How? I would really like your answer. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1031	Here, Mr. Petropoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1032	Mr. Jelloney, your question is indeed timely and gives me the opportunity to reassure the farmers about the rumours that are spread over Greece. First of all, I must say that many SYRIZA Members and all the wings - and Mrs Arabatzi has the same question for tomorrow - have asked me the same question and I am given the opportunity to answer everyone right now. The provisions of the new law provide for the national pension that farmers now receive, EUR 384. This leads to a pension which is multiples that they would take with the old provisions. I will not go back to all the details that I have already analysed on other occasions and when the bill was set up. I will only say that the basic pension that the previous law gave farmers was zero in 2026. So this old situation is over, where farmers were on the sidelines of society, and therefore with a pension of that size we should take a measure that was also the case for other people. For all insured persons, a pension cut was provided for. As the rules are the same, pension cuts are also provided for farmers. However, this pension cut has as a starting point the farmers will receive, with the transitional period provided for, the completeness of this pension. So there is no reason for farmers to worry. It is right what we say about the transfer of rights. It is good for fathers and mothers in the country to do so for their children, after the new potential for growth, through the funding programmes of young farmers and young farmers to be opened up to develop such an activity. But there is no question, and that has also been raised. The question has been raised as to whether the declarations should be submitted by 15 June. You'll already know it's been extended by the end of the month. There is therefore a possibility for everyone to settle transfers. After all, on the occasion of this law, it is good to clear up the assets and transfer this property to their children. I repeat that there will be no problem with the farmers who are already retired. Of course, this issue needs to be dealt with. In the meantime, we'll deal with it. As far as the contributions are concerned, you have a point of order. There is an increase of about EUR 11 per month for the third insurance category, which is the main volume of insured, some three hundred eighty thousand farmers from the five hundred seventy thousand. About 67% will give 11 euros a month more. This applies to the third insurance category. It's more than that for the fourth insurance category. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But let me say this so that our farmers can hear it - and I shall end, Madam President - about the completeness of the answer. Since 2017, which will have been part of the overall method of calculating contributions, we will have a lower burden than that in 2014 for all farmers, because it will be related, as we have said, to net income, which, according to the TAXIS and the General Secretariat for Revenue, will be about the annual contribution to EUR 934, so much less than the one anticipated before. Indeed, for two years there has been a charge of EUR 11 a month for the third category and more for the fourth category. Others are small populations. I think that when it is two thousand farmers in one category, it is not very important to say it. As regards OGA correspondents, they are maintained. We do not intend to abolish the OGA correspondents. The OGA maintains its job for non-insurance benefits. I'll finish then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1033	Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1034	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we're waiting for the Circular to come out for what you said. But it applies, according to your position, that young pensioners, born in 1949 who will be retired from 1-7-2016, must transfer their agricultural property. They can't practice the profession. By extension, we create in the Greek region a category of citizens who have to live with EUR 3,500 total earnings from the pension of EUR 330. If that's possible! I ask you this: Retired farmer is now deceiving and hereditary crops are going to his wife. Will his wife now be considered to be practicing the profession for the first time and will you cut her pension by 60%? Bearing in mind that the wife is also a pensioner. Do you know who you're touching here? This provision affects the small farmers in the Greek region. I would really like, in order to be fair to the agricultural order, which retains social cohesion in the Greek region, to apply what was the case with Law 3863/2010, when the PASOK Government had explicitly excluded from this provision farmers, whether in active or retired. This has to come back. In relation to what you said about the national pension of more than EUR 380, you know that farmers will get this in 2031. And if, in 2026, you say, the main pension was zero and the basics came with all the other supplements and additionals, the farmer would not lose. As far as 11 euros is concerned, it is not 11 euros, Minister. In the third category of EUR 954 paid by the farmer, today he pays for the boxes 1.189,88 euros. We've got a 19.81% increase. And with regard to what you say that after 2017 farmers will pay less, how will they pay less? It's common sense. Farmers until yesterday paid 10% - that is 7% for the main, according to scales, and 3% for health - and today they have to pay a total of both 14%. From time to time they will go to 18% and by 2022, on their taxable income, they will go to 27%. And if all of this takes account of tax evasion policy at the expense of farmers, the measures that have been taken so far - and the farmers know them very well - who are squeezing their incomes, plus tax evasion policy through the contributions for the single social security institution, the agricultural sector and primary Greek production, which are so now so necessary at this critical moment for the national economy, are really dismantling the agricultural sector and the Greek primary production. Really, I'm asking them to stay. And I appeal, if we want to say that in something we must finally agree, is that the primary sector must receive national attention from all parties, because it is an area of development, social, economic, which, as I said, holds, in addition to the economic contribution to the national economy, and social cohesion. Therefore, it should remain as was the previous law, n.3853/2010, and farmers should be excluded from the specific provisions of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government's insurance law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1035	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1036	Mr. Jelloney, mathematics is mathematics. The third insurance category in 2014 meant EUR 953,49 per year. And in 2015 it is called upon to pay, because there has indeed been an increase of 1,084,80 euros. It is about EUR 11 per month and EUR 131 per year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1037	No, it's 1,189 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1038	The third category I'm telling you is the main tumor, three hundred and eighty thousand people. We are interested in the countryside and the rural world, and we have paid great attention to what this burden will be, so we have made a transitional phased adjustment to the level which farmers will eventually be asked to pay as an insurance contribution. According to data from the General Secretariat of Income, 80% of the OGA's insured will be called upon to pay EUR 944,26, or less than he paid in 2014. I said before, however, that, under no circumstances should there be any reason for farmers to worry - on the occasion of the statement of the rights to grant subsidies, that this is a reduction in pensions. You also said that, due to the transition to another pension contribution and remuneration scheme, which is not from the beginning of EUR 384 - there is and is provided by the law for a gradual convergence of the system - we will deal with this and there will be no such problem and such a need. But do not let farmers rest on this transition, because at some point they must do so. We'll adjust the way and the timing with the cylindrical. They'll all be aware. So they should see what is already provided - and you know that, because you are dealing with the agricultural world - that is, transferring shares, cartons, etc. to the agricultural production organisation process is also provided for by other provisions. It will therefore be appropriate to regulate the issues of agricultural property and crops, to transfer them to their children or to make use of the new investment programmes, which we will implement for aid, agricultural production and young farmers. Let our farmers think about that. It is better to think positively than to defend behind a system which no longer exists and which had farmers outside the national and social security system. The EUR 384 we will give to farmers...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1039	After 2031...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1040	We're not going to go to the former regime where they didn't get anything. They'll retire. However, since this pension will be highly shaped, the same rules must apply to farmers as to others who benefit from another activity. They'll have some cutback, the one the other Greeks have. It is fair and we cannot do anything different from that for every Greek. Others are a matter of housekeeping and vision. We will help to develop the productive potential, especially for young farmers, who can grow even better than their fathers and mothers. That's what we have to achieve.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1041	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have four topical questions to the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paulo Polakis. We begin with the thirteenth, with number 813/21-04-2016, a topical question for the second question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, concerning the Ministry of Health's 'interference in the selection tenders of 100 doctors and 400 nurses'. Mr. Georgiadis, here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1042	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I would like to make two introductory remarks. Firstly, we strongly condemn the events in Ierapetra. Another thing is the political criticism that we want to exert on you and another thing is the pre-contrasts of a minister. For the record, this is our big difference. When you had some to do to us, you were happy and happy. In any case, however, you have no doubt that the New Democracy is far from such events. Secondly, Minister, it is completely inconceivable that the Minister for Health of Greece smokes inside the Ministry of Health, that your image with cigarettes and back there be the title "Ministry of Health". Excuse me, but if you had done so and were Minister of Health of any other country, the Prime Minister would have left you on the same day only for that. Finally, you must understand that you are the Minister of Health of Greece and in your practice you can lure other people into smoking and cause irreparable harm to their health. In any case, this seems to be none of your business, because it is generally not about compliance with the laws. The President said about the apparent intervention in the CEDEFOP competition. I shall put forward an introductory statement, and I shall mention, Madam President, that on 20 May I made a request for documents. I have asked the Minister to hand over the report from the Legal Service of the CEDEFOP, which was distributed to the new members of the Management Board appointed by the Minister, following the events of what really happened with this tender for the recruitment of a hundred doctors and four hundred nurses for intensive care units, since in this House the Minister has committed himself, 50 days ago, that they will have opened up in twenty-five days. Time has doubled and still not open. The procedure proceeds indeed from the new Board of Directors of the CEDEFOP at all times on the condition that those who are entitled to appeal to the courts and to annul the tender. Madam President, it has not been delivered, although the twenty-day deadline has passed, the document in question, but has happened to be in my possession. I'll put it down at the end of the question in the Minutes. I'm gonna need it to read it in my dentistry. It's a strictly personal and confidential document. It is signed by the Legal Service of the CEDEFOP, namely Ms Athena Economou, Legal Adviser to the CEDEFOP. I read the two critical points from all the legal recommendations: "Before the registration process was completed and pending the completion of the Committee's assessment of applications to the Management Board for a decision on posting the results, the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paulakis intervened in the procedure and requested..." etc. I'll report them, if necessary, to my dentistry. I am going to the critic: "On 21 April 2016 and while the committee was working" - the committee, Madam President, which would modulate candidate doctors and candidate nurses, the convened committee - "a climate of the Ministry of Health, consisting of Mr. Tsemagian, Bakalis and lawyer Raptis, a partner of the Minister's office, visited the place where the committee was working and expressed various interpretations of the way CICPN mobilised the candidates. And it concludes the suggestion as follows: "In view of the above, the opinion of the legal services of the CEDEFOP is that, because the procedure in question is void, which, in our view, is not healed by the continuation of the procedure..." etc. He will be submitted to the Minutes at the end of my question. I shall summarise it, Minister, for you to have the floor. In an unprecedented, illegal way, without respecting any procedure, without knowing what can and cannot be done by a Minister, you have ordered your partners and intervened in the procedure in your own way. And, of course, you have actually blown up the whole process, so that the intensive care units have not yet been staffed, people looking for a bed, for themselves or for their relatives, and that they do not find, with what this means for the possible urban consequences of your intervention. I would like you to inform us under what law and what procedure the Deputy Minister, Mr Paulakis, has thus intervened in the recruitment process for doctors and nurses. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1043	Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1044	Mr. Georgiades, thank you for the question. First of all, I thank you for the support you show me of the stunned episode that created ten extreme right and five of a particular area on the extra-parliamentary Left, with the background of citizens of Ierapetra who protested their agony for the hospital! This is a hospital, Mr Georgiadis, which you and Mr Loverdos have been closing and squeezing his body halfway through, and we are at the moment giving it twenty-seven new staff, as we have explained to all the workers who have gathered in and had an excellent talk for two and a half hours and have responded very specifically. Because a wound that you have opened with the destruction you have brought to the health system, we heal it, we correct it, and we heal it. Let me also express my deep sympathy for the failure of yesterday's 'Resign' gathering, which you led and came out with the unprecedented statement that he had thousands of people, but they had gone under the trees and didn't get the cameras. One - zero of that. Secondly, to talk about the substance. The CEDEFOP shall be a legal entity governed by private law. On the basis of the documents referred to in the Schedule of Mr Spiliotopoulos Manual of Administrative Law 2002 on pages 349 and 368, the CEDEFOP shall be exercised by the State as PPP, i.e. the possibility of monitoring, which is necessary in order to ensure the consistency of the legal order, the implementation of the government policy, compliance with the applicable provisions and the prevention and repression of situations contrary to the legitimate interest. Therefore, the verification carried out may be repressive or preventive. Preventive control shall include control of operations prior to their adoption. In this regard - if you want specific laws - in accordance with Article 7 of the d.o.b. 358/1992 - the founding law of CEDEFOP - the supervision by the Ministry of Health includes the exercise of management control, the appointment of its board of directors. Therefore, it can carry out any checks either preventive or repressive, any public money management operation, in particular procedures and recruitment of staff by means of a contract of employment financed by the Greek State and in particular by the ordinary budget.’ That's the legal part. We are now going to specifics, because we have a lot of difference, a lot of difference. And I would like you to allow me, Madam President, to continue, because a comparison needs to be made and to understand what Mr Georgiadis has done in the past and what we have done today. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr. Georgiadis, I have here Practical meetings of the Executive Board of the CEDEFOP on 4 July 2013. You were a Minister of Health. Mr Eftasthiou - Vice-President at that time of CEDEFOP - is changing - I'm talking about the previous intake of forty doctors and a hundred and ninety nurses of TE, TE and TE - while the applications have been filed, the committees are changing - obviously not alone, but with a mandate from the above - mid-term and mid-term evaluation - and good! - the composition of the evaluation committees. Your days have done this. Where has the evaluation committee been described while doing the evaluation? You did this. And I come to the session of Wednesday, 4 September 2013. You, Minister. You come to cover the previous decision, with which you are changing - and will be tabled in the Minutes - the composition of the evaluation committees for both doctors and nurses and announcing a table of results - is proposed by Mr Efstathios and voted by President Jenny Kourea - Cremastino - in which they confirm that they are taking them away and putting them on the list, the committees which have changed to that list. With him you appointed after the previous ones, he also says, from personal interviews, where he needed it. The practical record of the decision by which these people were appointed is here. Look at it. If you don't see it, come closer. Where's the molecule? Where is a molecule here next to the decision? All this painting was made with billets from you and others on your side and with the share you then made with the coup d'état. To explain, let's not get us wrong! There's no molecule anywhere! A molecule! That's what's being submitted. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Second, let's see what we did. In order not to repeat this - because the para-state mechanisms are living and reigning, but we are sneezing them, and there is your pain the great - we had information, as we had to have as the supervisory authority of the CEDEFOP, that they have been tabled - speaking of doctors - two hundred twenty applications and that the "milk boiled" is done. And we say 'Which, guys, wait a minute, see what's going on'. We have complaints. Complaints were made that the files did not even have access to the evaluation committee set up. A para-state mechanism there in some offices on our day would take off the situation with who would be hired. And we say, "After thieves, give them to us, show us the situation." So they're sending us a classification then with an alleged moleculosis. Well done, congratulations! Watch out, let me say something. For the first time, we imposed the notice - despite the fact that the founding law of the CEDEFOP said it was excluded - on the basis of the criteria of the CEDEFOP. The legal counsellor you mentioned - and I will say a few things about this lady after that - says that we are exempted, that is, defending the vicious and rotten regime. The CEDEFOP Legal Service, which you had appointed, and the predecessors and predecessors of your predecessors - why are they - defending that CEDEFOP is excluded, "Why do you make us competition on criteria of CEDEFOP?". Is that what you stand for, Mr. Georgiadis? So we are being sent a list, which of course - to see if they are telling the truth about the molecules, because we did not have confidence and should, as Minister, be legitimate after these recruitments to see where I sign. So it says, after all, that the Constitution should, Mr Georgiadis, protect the public interest. That's it, isn't it? - and we saw the files. So what do we see? That eighty - eighty - eight wrong molecules have become. Wrong. Another service was in the papers, another scored. Other postgraduate or titles were available and others counted. Others didn't have and postgraduate them, elsewhere they were, and they weren't. So we are sitting here, and we are working on it, and we are sending back to the then President, Mr Giannopoulos, that "see, on the basis of the criteria of the ADP and moleculosis, this is our opinion and we are sending you the paper on your legal actions". What were their legal actions? To meet the evaluation committee and compare it - because the evaluation committee did not set it up - the moleculosis they have done - yes, and the ministry officials, civil servants who know about molecules and procedures - with what has been done before, see who is right, guys. Instead, you're putting Mrs. Economou out of the process, she sees that "Oh! This is where you guys got us! Let's say it's illegal, because that's how we'll be saved." And this is the known melcystinda, which is delaying. Because we have made a political decision that this social contract of the client state and the paradox will break it, we pulled it to the end. We asked them to say: 'What is happening here, who is right?' They started to make out what they were doing, to delay the process, to blackmail the members of the committee not to sign and not to control these molecules, and despite the efforts made, we moved on to change the administration of the CEDEFOP. Let us now come to the final conclusion and whoever has the slightest doubt about it, get out and say it. The table in which the officials of the Ministry ended, on my own mandate to see and measure really, is the same, except for three names which have not been appointed, with the table drawn up by the committee - the committee itself, we did not change it, which was released from the suffocating balance of the previous administration and the para-state mechanism that is still liberating, but which has been overshadowed, as I say - by the results, which, Mr Georgiadis, were posted - if you did not get a hambari - yesterday after the examination of the objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1045	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1046	I shall conclude, Madam President. Because there, this routing has made another effort, so I fell out in the days, because the two lawyers from the three members of the Objection Committee have made twelve days - which we have not changed them either - to respond to the new administration of the CEDEFOP 'because we cannot participate in the Objection Committee, we are working!' As if they were courtesy, as if we asked them to attend a trial! We just told them to see the objections. They were the same before. On the basis of their refusal, therefore, we changed the Objection Committee, the objections were dealt with and the final list came out. And again, the same committee came out of the twenty - year - old nurses and the hundred - seventy - year - old nurses. They were posted and we expect there to be objections. These objections and doctors will be dealt with and appointed immediately once the final table has been posted. Time for the rest in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1047	Thank you. But it must be done, Minister, because we have reached six times the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1048	It is, but a big political issue has been created.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1049	I understand that, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1050	Madam President, he's enjoyable. Don't stop him. I can hear him by afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1051	Mr. Georgiades, please, take care, as far as possible, of your time. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1052	Fortunately, when Mr Petropoulos sits next to you, who is legal and can - obviously, not do so in public now - explain them to you a little back. Inspection at CEDEFOP, Minister, is carried out by the competent bodies, which have the state, not by your face or by the officials of your office. If, in other words, you actually had complaints... Please, Minister, your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1053	I'm listening. I can do a lot of things at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1054	I'm going a little fast, so we can get time. Let me accept that what you said is true...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1055	It is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1056	That's what you say. But let's take it. What could you do as Minister? You could ask the Health Services Inspectors' House to check these complaints. You could also ask the ERIC to restart the procedure from the beginning. What could you not do, Minister? Take your hands on the contestants' files, because this, if you have not yet understood it, falls, among others, under the laws on sensitive personal data and because you have intervened in the process, it is also of a felony nature. The fact that you're Minister, you have to understand at some point that it doesn't give you the right to do whatever you want. The Minister, in a civil-type parliamentary democracy, Minister, acts by law and by constitution, not as he thinks. If, therefore, you had complaints, under the supervision of the Ministry of Health, you had to ask the competent bodies to check these complaints. The fact that you intervened yourself makes the procedure void. And after the final post of the panel, people will go to court who consider that they have been wronged and the proceedings will be blocked in the courts, because the table you posted is the internal procedure of the CEDEFOP. It will also have a legal follow-up to this as soon as the recommendation of the CEDEFOP legal service is released and it says that all the procedure you have followed, because of your own intervention, is void. But one more thing has been heard, Minister, and that does not at all honor you. You filed us in the Minutes - I'll get them in a few minutes - your various complaints about past CEDEFOP procedures. Can you tell me what point my name refers to? Because I'm telling you what point your name refers to. Can you get me a protocol number paper that says that Minister of Health Adonis Georgiadis asked for an envelope? I have to show you some paper that says the Minister of Health Paulakis asked for a file. So, what do you compare? Do you compare any view as to whether or not the CEDEFOP board at the time followed the procedure correctly or not, with your own illegal intervention in the procedure, which was in progress? In other words, compare two unrelated things, Minister, and do so in your knowledge, to throw mud. To recapitulate within the suggestion - to say it so that the journalists who are listening to it and the Greek people - also mention the committee - that the committee you finally held - can't check if they all have papers in their hands, because when you returned the files from your office, you had removed papers from the files, Minister. You know that? The committee accuses you of removing papers from the files. And you come and you play it here with an open preacher of morality? You'll allow me one more thing. You're not telling me, this parastate board of CEDEFOP, which did all these terrible things...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1057	The mechanism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1058	This mechanism - with the synergy of the then board of directors and the then president of CEDEFOP - from whom was it appointed, Minister? You know? From your predecessor, Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, now Minister for the Interior of SYRIZA. What do you say to us in the House? That your colleague, Mr. Kourublis, had cooperated in a para-state mechanism and in order to reward him by the Prime Minister, did he bring him up to a Minister of the Interior? Is that what you tell the Greek people? That your colleague on the Ministerial Council was a crook and appointed a para-state agency? You're not embarrassed at all! On the substance of the matter, you made an intervention, which was illegal. If you've got a lot of Cretans, ask yourself to become the board of inquiry and go to court to say what you're saying, not to the House. You should go to court, like every Greek citizen, and tell the judge "Yes, I violated the laws because I thought you" and judge you. Not that SYRIZA's colleagues cover up with the alleged Article 86, which you are supposed to abolish. Secondly, thanks to your illegal intervention, beds have been left for more than six months without doctors and nurses. You are not telling me, Minister: for those who died or for those who have suffered enormous harm - why did you teach me a lesson via facebook that you are saving lives - do you have to say an apology that, because of your intervention, they did not find a bed and others who died and others who were hurt? Do you feel any remorse at night before you go to sleep, where people are now looking for intensive treatment beds and don't find them because of you? When you come here, don't have the look you're used to having, especially when you've outlawed. Finally, Madam President, you will allow me to say this: this timely question I have tabled five consecutive times. Mr. Paulakis came today, after the fuss I made last week. Do not think again of answering a Member of the Greek Parliament for a timely question via facebook. Do not confuse the process and the Constitution, Minister. You are the Minister of the Hellenic Republic. It is unfortunate about our democracy, but it is true. Respect your role. You're legally unreported, you're illegal, and you don't have a look and ask for an apology from all those who have suffered harm to their health because of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1059	Mr. Polakis, you have the floor. But soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1060	Thank you, Madam President. Some things need to be answered. I'll be as brief as possible. Mr Georgiadis, the loss of cooling - because you have already received the answers to the substantive issue - leads you to cries and characterizations and shameful lies. In fact, I am ashamed of the level at which you are going down to defend something that I proved to you before that you are clearly wrong. There's nothing like what you're saying, that we removed the documents from the inside. I'm going to say some things about the legal service you invoke, Mr. Georgiades, to say things by their name, because it doesn't only matter what you say, but who you say it and why you say it. The Legal Service of the CEDEFOP, namely Mrs Athena Economou - Skorda - of the well-known family of the New Democracy - for four years as the official Legal Adviser of Mr George Sourla, is a lady who has been responsible for the legal service of the CEDEFOP for years with fees greater than or greater than a multiple Secretary-General, a lady from behind as a legal adviser. I'll just say that to figure out why I said that it doesn't only matter what you say, but who are you that say it and who gives you the moral stature to say what you say. This lady was back as a legal counsellor, she was the one who, while in the market of the CCIB building in Maroussi with this famous proclamation she made public at an objective value of three million two thousand four hundred seventy-two euros...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1061	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1062	Wait a minute, because we talked about a paratrooper, and you call it a parastate. This main legal counsellor, defending the public interest, has investigated the real estate offices in the region, which have told her that the commercial value is ten million one, eighteen hundred the other, and not the third and not the Body of Occupied Accountants, as the responsible Legal Adviser of the CEDEFOP should do, the one whose opinion you call on me for a felony.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1063	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1064	So this lady, who led CEDEFOP to finally give eighteen million to a building that had an objective value of three, this lady you call as the legal counsel of the CEDEFOP, which she condemns...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1065	Do you condemn...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1066	No, I don't generally condemn. That's what justice is all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1067	He's dealing with you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1068	I heard you very carefully, and I didn't open my mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1069	For a lady absent... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1070	Don't lose your temper. Calm down. Take deep breaths with an open mouth. Calm down. He's got a lot of it all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1071	Mr. Pollack, speak of the subject and soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1072	Of course I called for it to be taken over by the SYSTEM and it took off this report, which says that 3.5 million euros were paid over your days for advertising expenditure, which should not even be paid. And not just that. We also called the State General Accounting Office. What more control over this service? What a bigger control! In 2014, if my memory doesn't cheat on me, you were Minister, for a long time, half, so you have half the responsibility that CCIBO gave me that year EUR 5.860,000 and something fine for advertising expenditure in a number of companies. Do you have a responsibility, Mr. Georgiadis, or do you not have it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1073	Madam President, he responds to his second-guess, so that I cannot respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1074	Calm down, calm down. Deep breaths.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1075	That's not right at all, Minister. There's no manhood for what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1076	Listen, they've been published...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1077	You could answer that beforehand, to answer. You fly mud because I can't take the floor. Minister, why didn't you tell me before to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1078	Because I had to answer the fundamental question you raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1079	You think what you're doing is decent?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1080	Madam President, can you tell my colleague to calm down a little while to finish the answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1081	But you too must finish, Mr Polakis, because this question has lasted twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1082	It was an important question, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1083	Yes, it was important, but the Rules of Procedure are dealing with this too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1084	You know what, Madam President? The mechanism of the CEDEFOP, served by Mr.Georgiadis as the political leader, was one of the two mechanisms with which they acquired consensus and support from the media in the previous period and the PASOK and the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1085	Yes, but the Rules of Procedure don't deal with these details, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1086	And one last word, Mr Georgiadis, because we're not the same. I've been hospitalized with my exclusive and primary responsibility, over a thousand four hundred patients in intensive care units, who I was director of. With mortality rates that were compared - and these are written and see the - with very large centres. Secondly, I have hospitalized over seven thousand patients in increased care units, who have been a director again. Thirdly, I have operated many thousands of patients with no interoperable death or perimeter. I know very well what human life means and I know very well what it means not to find an intensive bed. And that is why, during the five days that the EKA list was very uploaded, we gave the solution with the activation of the contract - both with the private ICUs and with the opening of other beds - which was inactive, which you did not do and you left it "ruler juice". What you had done was to allow a private hospital, which was hospitalized for neonates, to be paid for with adults ’ METs for neonates. Your days have done this. And I can tell you a lot of details. Be careful, the greatest apologies to the Greek people, Mr. Georgiadis, you and your predecessor, Mr. Loverdos, and Mr. Vorides, for having booked a series of hospitals that have destroyed public primary care, which we are back on our feet at the moment. We're going to change the agencies you've been punctured. Why didn't you dare go to Ierapetra, Mr. Georgiadis? Because if you were going, I don't know how you'd come back. Because then you plucked these organisms and lowered it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1087	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1088	I mean, do you remember how you went to Chania Hospital? Seven-and-a-half o'clock in the morning, around - around, with a cage MAT.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1089	Come on, Mr. Polakis. Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1090	Listen! Consider the night in your home what harm you have done, doing orders for three years in the health field. We, with the relationship we have with this place, because we are flesh from his flesh, whatever evil you have done, will fix it, because it is our political choice to set up the public health sector on his feet. Thank you very much and be more careful when flying lies into the air.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1091	Because there are too many questions that have been deleted and I have to read them I will speak a little quick. The eighth Question No 978/10-6-2016, by Mr Georgios Katsiantonis, Member of the European Parliament, on the global reduction of ELTA (Greek Post) revenues from the suspension of the extended hours of postal stores, is not being discussed due to the obstruction of the Member of Parliament, who is present in a committee of Parliament. The fourteenth under number 914/27-5-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the "creating of illegal kindergartens and boarding schools in Xanthi", is not discussed. The sixteenth, under number 545/15-2-2016, a topical question for the second parliamentary Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of operation of the EKA, is not being discussed. Also, the question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy, Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the restoration works of the Archaeological site of Mystras, is not discussed in consultation of the questioning Member with the relevant Minister. We move forward with the twelfth under No 952/6-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Atolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the CT scanner at the Arta Hospital. Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1092	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the JRC, once again, brings to Parliament the great problem of the operation of the Arta Hospital, with the major problems and the failure of the CT scanner. This isn't the first time. The same problem exactly existed three years ago for a long time. We cannot comment on this polluter fight we had just now among those responsible for fracture in the health sector. Mr. Polakis, and today is not the CT scanner on your own service. And as we write to the question - Mr Georgiadis left - it was not exactly working again three years ago when Mr Georgiadis was in the service. Now who are the big victims? The major victims are the people's families, who by government SYRIZA - ANEL and the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK are paying their health expensively and handing them over to individuals. The problems in particular, Mr Polakis, in the CT scanner are not only those patients who can move to the individuals you are sending them. It is in a number of patients, who are serious incidents, cannot be transported and there really poses a serious risk to their health. Especially can't be moved days, like weekends and holidays, because they have to go to the Ioannina Hospital, which is at least an hour away. Mr Polakis, in our question we are saying this and this is also about the New Democracy: they have been unpaid on-calls and workers since 2012. And you and New Democracy and PASOK are breaking labour rights. Now, we don't want to get to the point where some people say the CT scan doesn't work to keep the private. But we have to say this: it is not working for three months today. You've made an agreement with private individuals and you pay 20,000 a month for a lamp, which, at least as far as we know, is worth 60,000 euros. And we ask something very simple: it's an old CT scanner. Is it difficult for the Ministry of Health, for the health of the people, to have a reserve - so to speak folk - and another lamp, so that we are not in this bad situation today? We are clearly saying that this is a conscious policy of degrading the public health system and we must draw conclusions from the workers, the people of the region and, more generally, from the workers of the country. Minister, we want you to give specific answers. I will say next - because it is not just the operation of the hospital - about the broken health centres in the area. But you must answer the CT scanner to solve the major problems of the workers, to whom you owe all these previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1093	The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Paul Paulakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1094	Mr Moraite, thank you for the question. We're not like the others, and we show it very specifically. Firstly, last year the Arta Hospital was scheduled to get 6671,000 euros from the state budget - I mean from the Government of Samara - and we finally gave 7,251,000 euros. Already the currency now is much better than last year, which had only taken EUR 583,000 this year. So far, it has been financed with EUR 2,284,000, in an increased budget, compared with last year. Secondly, we anticipated in the November announcements, which are now being appointed, because the finals of the IGC came out, three positions: a PPC of pharmacists, a medical laboratory, a radio- radiologist. Of the five hundred eighty-five, which are also in the final phase - and all the health regions made this competition on the basis of CSCE criteria - there are three other people. Since the proclamation of the permanent positions of doctors of the ESS, in the light of the shortcomings that existed, two psychiatric posts were called. And from the notice covered by the successors of the 1998 SAAP, there are four administrative-accounting, five administrative-accounting individuals for the Vourgarelli Health Centre and two more administrative-accounting individuals. Also, four auxiliary doctors have gone from September onwards, two others refused and in another case there was no candidate. What I would like to say, with regard to the CT, is that it is an old and well-known problem, because it is an old machine. It is not the point of having a reserve, Mr Mauritius. Unfortunately, companies - and in a way of winning - after some time do not fully cover the maintenance and adequacy of spare parts that exist. They are prepared, to raise prices, that we need orders from abroad and so on. We decided, in cooperation with the Epirus Region, to buy the spare part needed. Already running this process and you know it. At the same time, the decision has been taken by the hospital's board of directors and by financing our own, not by the NRP, from these resources that the hospital has, there will be a market for a new CT scanner in competition. It will, of course, become a public tender because it concerns a cost of EUR 300,000 to 350,000 to buy a modern CT scanner. From there on, the Hospital of Arta took about 329.961 in May last year to cover unpaid work, on-call or overtime of the years 2013 and 2014. It also took around 40,000 to avoid any cutback in December, so that there would not be any cutback for the first year after seven years, as in other hospitals in the country, on newspapers and overtime of medical and nursing personnel. There is one issue with the payment of this year's newspapers, which is a question of functional inadequacy of the administrative mechanism, which will be resolved. The appropriations have been transferred and I think we will cover the lost ground. For 2012 there are also requests from other hospitals. We are looking at collecting them from everywhere and we hope that we will be able to make a comprehensive arrangement for all hospitals having such a problem - and the EAW has such a problem, for a few days, namely - and we want an overall solution to that, now that the situation is beginning and normalises and the money that exists. I also take this opportunity to tell you that there will be a very large injection of liquidity in the market and especially in the next few months - I speak from 20 June to 30 July - where we plan to disburse a very large amount of hospital debt, based on the amount of time it comes and the dues it will cover. We're talking about a sum that will be between 500-600m euros, which will be able to set up, functionally, further hospitals on their feet and not have the blackmail from some suppliers, who say you haven't paid me in the past, you haven't done one, you haven't done the other. The final tables of No 4K and 5K in November were also completed. There are the thousands of seven hundred who come out in the next few days and there are another thousand - I am talking about permanent staff, other hospital staff, not doctors - who will be declared in September and will be covered - I stress this - by the final list of successors to the first notice. They made fifty - five thousand applications, who have been registered. From this definitive rolling scoreboard we will be able to get both the thousand seven hundred and the ones that we are going to publish in September. Because, in fact, it is a bet that hospitals have their own blood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1095	Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1096	Minister, you described a situation. Of course, you did not give any specific answer, in our view, to the acute problems and what we put to the question, but to what the people of the region put every day. We didn't say there was a reserve. We are in favour of replacing the CT scanners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1097	But it takes six months, so we'll replace the lamp.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1098	Apart from that, we ask specific questions. Let me ask, Minister: Indeed, the only truth is that there were these appointments in the psychiatric clinic. There's a rehabilitation center and physical recovery. Is it working? Are there nights? It is one of the best centers in the region and, like Arta's and Amphichia's, it does not work. We, when we give some evidence, take care of this evidence to respond to the reality. I don't know who's telling you, Minister. And I'm asking you specific questions. There are three Health Centers in Artas County. All three are in the mountainous tumor. We're telling you in particular. Does the Voulgarelli Health Center keep all month or half a month, Minister? Do Agnandon Health Center or the Health Center in Calentina regularly inspect or squeeze, like the previous ones, by taking doctors from health centers and transporting them to the hospital, to “close holes” as our people say? Are the ambulances working on a 24-hour basis? We tell you no. And you know, Minister, we live unprecedented situations. Patients are transported from these health centers to pedestrian cars. And we are not saying it - and we are not in danger - Minister, but they are the testimony of residents and the workers who exist in the region. We know and say it clearly, that in this barbaric system health is a commodity, and, unfortunately, it is extremely expensive, simple merchandise, especially for people's families. As I said in my prototype, it is surely a conscious policy of degrading the public health system. The victims of this situation are workers, they are poor, popular. Minister, what we're telling you is exactly like this. In hospitals there may be improvement in relation to the past, but there are still huge problems. In particular, however, there are problems in health centres and in rural hospitals, where I must tell you that drugs are written once a month in remote areas. And thankfully you have found these recipes - I am not, of course, in the health sector, to know very well - which have a month or more. It is not just a prescribing issue - there you have become health centers - but it is also a matter of treating elderly people and people in remote areas. To these questions, Minister, give answers. But we know what the answers are. That is why we call on the workers in the region to take the case in their hands, to fight for a health that meets their real needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1099	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Paulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1100	Mr. Moraite, be a little gracious when, when, it doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1101	I didn't hear that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1102	I say be a little gracious when, when. It doesn't hurt. Informatively, I will tell you that the regional health office of Granikos, the multifunctional Lepinon regional hospital, the regional hospital of Ramias, the regional health office of Cataracts, the Vourgarel Health Centre, the regional office of Kefylis, the regional office of Central, the regional office of Tetrakomos, the regional office of Myrophylos, the regional hospital of Theodorianos, the regional office of Rheadis and the regional hospital of Adamaniou are fourteen out of four hundred rural doctors, mountain or island doctors and disadvantaged ones, where timely memorial - and recognize this - and in time of budgetary adjustment, which we have previously received from partners - creditors, we reinstate the allowance of an unborn child with 400 euros as an incentive to go to go to the world. And we think it's going. And we put all the regional doctors in the mountain volume of your area, just because we know - and I from mountain volumes I am - what it means to expect the old man to come to the village to write his medications, take his pressure, get his hands on him, examine him and see all these things. And that's why we're doing it. It's three hundred rural doctors in island and mountain Greece, and I think your area is overestimated with this thing. From there and beyond what we can, we do. I think it's clear. You have also seen the preliminary draft budget for 2017. Over this year's 300 million, another 200 million aid for the health budget is planned. There is also an increase in the financing of the EEA, precisely to support public structures. This is going to happen for the first time this year after too many years. We are calling too many places and there are also in your area. I didn't know you were going to ask me about the Health Centers. This happened and I had it with me. I mean the positions that have been declared in your area as permanent doctors, within the six hundred ninety that we have been proclaiming massively after many years. There was also another additional notice of seventy permanent doctors' posts, which will be sent to many areas with many remote health centres, to meet needs. There is a serious discussion within the government - unfortunately I cannot tell you at the moment - about what the number of permanent doctors' recruitment will be in the next three years. And we're not talking about a bunker. We are making a serious effort to strengthen the system with staff. I can't say the number now. But we'll be announcing it very soon. And we want to give a signal to the generation that left out in the past five, six memorandum years, start coming back and see that it has a future in Greece. And to do that, you can't say I've been proclaiming five hundred positions in the next few years. You have to say a serious number to show that you want to pull them back again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1103	Thank you. The tenth will be discussed under number 943/3-6-2016 topical question by the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, Minister for Health, on the deficiencies of the EMCDDA in mountainous Achaia. Mr. Katsaniotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1104	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you will allow me to begin by taking the floor from the previous debate and to tell you that the advertising industry in Greece, the advertising companies in Greece, is a very important and great sector. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] It employs thousands of people, has many awards abroad, has a series of good scientists dealing with research, text writers, creative, productive. It would be nice not to demonise branches, such as we should not demonise channels, just as we should not demonise newspapers. This is for rehabilitation. Because for you today, we had a waiver of your immunity. None of us think you've done anything. So until things end, it's bad to target divisions. It is wrong to target the advertising industry as a whole. This is an introduction. What I would like to say to you, Minister, and on the occasion of my question, unfortunately, is the loss of one of our fellow citizens. A few days ago, a couple of weeks ago a fellowman at Bossi Calabryton felt a sudden unwelling. The EMCDDA was notified, but unfortunately, due to lack of staff, the EMCDDA was invited from Saint John. Time was long and our fellowman didn't make it. I understand and understand the shortcomings that exist in the public sector as a whole. I understand and understand the health shortages. But the area of health and, above all, the EAW in mountainous areas is, Minister, a matter of life and death. What I would like to hear from you is what you have done in the last 15 months. Why describe what happened five years ago or seven years ago or three years ago has no interest in Kalavrita. What is interesting is to tell us what you have done these fifteen months and what you plan to do. Because, you know, people who live in these mountains and remote areas must have answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1105	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1106	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. I didn't demonize any branches. I highlighted the complexity that exists through the overthrow of the CEDEFOP, which fed a site with a visitability of two hundred and a hundred visits a year with some fifty and thousands of euros. Secondly, as far as the EAFRD is concerned, the first and most important thing we did for the whole country's EAFRD is that a competition that was cancerous, for the well-known reasons, since 2007, we completed it by means of a process that broke a global record for the Greek bureaucracy from September that we took over. Already ninety ambulances are on their way to the various regions and the Peloponnese Region ten. The first and most important thing we did was because these ninety ambulances would also be lost if we did not act in the way we acted in October, we have just taken over. It was one of the first things we dealt with. Because if the Court of Auditors, through the help of its Presidents and Vice-Presidents, did not complete its control - which usually takes five and six months - in fifteen to seventeen days, it would not be possible to sign any convention and we would also lose these ninety ambulances. Secondly, as far as this very regrettable event was concerned, the ambulance from Hayios took both a kilometre and a time that the Kalavryta ambulance would need, since the area of the incident was the same from Agios and Kalavrytas, about thirty-five kilometers away. The third is: the Kalavritan EKAV has been strengthened in recent years with two staff. Imagine what it was like before. It was one of the hundred and eighty-seven rescuers who swore to Genaris, and there we ran too much to complete this process as quickly as possible. We're also planning two more positions for there, because we know the problem there is, the new hundred that will come out. Temporarily an invitation has been made to see whether there is, in principle, the possibility of moving already staff from the services of the EAW in the large urban centres. If there's such a desire, they might be transferred earlier. In any case, the two positions to be adopted are laid down. If covered by the internal movement, the new places will be opened where those who went from. If they're not covered, they'll be proclaimed there. Also, you should know something else. I take this opportunity to say something more generally, because some people do not understand that we are in crisis and think that they are protecting their working interests by standing in a sterile way against a situation that could have been solved. Look, the EKT in large urban centres does not move an ambulance unless there are two people crew, driver and rescuer. And he's right to do it. The point is that in some mountain and remote areas, in which the number of incidents is small, if you see the movement of some of these remote areas, you will understand that we cannot demand that they do - and I do not speak about this, I do not have an opinion, I know for others - a hundred and fifty or two hours of crew are available to cover all the shifts of the week of ambulances. It could, in cooperation with drivers of the health center, with a doctor or nurse who updates the health center a person to be a stand by and be able to carry such an incident when necessary. That is why we have given this possibility to the law of the parallel programme so that there are some areas where there are either fire-fighting services or the drivers of the municipalities through rapid training to obtain a certificate that they can offer the basic first aid to participate in meeting such needs. It is not the final solution to the problem. But look, there are many areas in Greece, where what I say is being paradoxically and so human lives have been saved. I'm not standing by saving everything with honor. Don't get us wrong. But at the moment the EAW has four thousand people, with a clear bad distribution of all over the world and internal redistribution in various regions, as a result of a client state of the past. We hire an eighty-seven, we hire another hundred people, it has been strengthened with fifty other people in the East Aegean for the needs of the refugee and it will be strengthened with other people now for the hospitality centres, because there is a new programme for eight hundred people and within them a number of EKA rescuers. Also, in the notice that will come out in September, we intend to take another fifty people. That is what we can do at the moment, and that is what we are striving to implement in the financial frameworks that exist, which we are opening up for the health sector as much as we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1107	Mr. Katsaniotis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1108	Minister, I should like to start from the clientele that you have said so many times today. In this client state, you know, apart from parties, there are faces. I would say that the former Minister of Health and the current Minister of the Interior, Mr Kurublis, has a much greater responsibility than you and me in this client state. He served many years. So whoever has served this client state and is coming to the swimming pool of Siloam, SYRIZA, is fighting it? To tell things the way they are. You say we're in crisis. For the last six to seven years, we've been in crisis. Master you taught, they'd say outside. When the trade unions in the past heard that we should be seeing things differently, we had revolutions. I will agree with you, and I believe that the most important thing is the health of our fellow people. So we're gonna have to figure out ways to do things. As far as the Kalavritas are concerned, I will tell you about this fact, Minister, that it was not the lack of an ambulance. Ambulance was found in both Kalavrita and Saint. Unfortunately, there was no shift in the Kalavrytas. And you know, the most important thing about these people's psychology is not only the bad time, it's having the feeling that their state is watching out, knowing there's an ambulance, knowing that you can move an ambulance. I won't talk about space from October then on, but from January then on. To the current Minister - then State Secretary - I had asked a question in March and had talked about the possibility of becoming autonomous and self-powered the Kalavryan Hospital. Minister, this was also a request from the residents, a request from all then SYRIZA Members of the Achaea Prefecture, who, in parallel, insisted on questions. It's a request, which I think is right and you should see. Is there any possibility, Minister, of the autonomy of the Calavry Hospital? That's the one. It's important to the residents. Will the map be changed or all that you have denounced as SYRIZA will remain the same? That's what's important, and that's what has to come out today. That's what we have to tell the people of Achaea Mountains. That is the important point and I would like an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1109	Mr. Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1110	To answer the last one, Mr. Catsaniotis. For the rest, there is no need to repeat ourselves. I thought so before. Look, it is within our intention to have a remodeling of the map and hospital agencies, which will come later in 2016. It's just, right now, unfortunately, you know what we're doing? We are building after six to seven years of organisations in health regions. Because health regions have been operating for years without organisations. And if you don't build the intermediate administrative piece, how are you going to go next? That's what we're making now. It has become a full circle with all the commanders and sub-commanders of health regions, we have gathered their proposals and with the Ministry's services, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Health, who also has a more responsibility in this respect, by drawing up the plans for the agencies. From the tours we have so far done all over Greece, we have seen that some combinations have offered nothing at all - nothing, but nothing at all! - while we've seen that some others worked as a mechanism for weakening the small hospitals in relation to the largest they connected. Because for my predecessor, who was sitting next to you, in the previous question - Mr Georgiadis, I speak - along with Mr Loverdos the story was 'Look at seeing, cut, destroy these agencies'. Of course we must rebuild many such agencies. I can't answer you right now about whether the Calavra Hospital needs to be separated, because to answer something, I have to go see it with my eyes, so I can tell you that. As I went to Ptolemais and Kozani, and I ended up in what must be done...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1111	I'm inviting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1112	...as we know with Andreas what needs to be done in Crete with Venizelio and the University, as we know what needs to be done in Ierapetra and Lasithi, as we know what needs to be done in a series of hospitals. We'll see, we'll renegotiate it. Look, there is also the content issue. In other words, his logic that a small hospital can be supported by the great mechanism is not wrong. The point is, this is not the way it is done. It's done, they've reduced his organism and they're pulling people out of there to boost the big because of the poorness. Now, we are trying to support them and support the large hospitals very much. That's what we did in the beginning. Because if we didn't support the big hospitals, the system would have collapsed. Now we're trying to support the rest. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] I'm looking forward to what you told me. All this will be renegotiated in its logic, firstly, how better services will be offered to the citizens and, secondly, what will be more operationally right. Because if you have a hospital of Calabry size, it has to meet some basic needs. He can't have specialised sections. That's the point. It must function decently with the main sections that have a provincial hospital covering this area that covers it. Now, whether this is functional and in the question 'to be interconnected or autonomous?' The answer is: 'It depends, it is not absolute'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1113	There is one final question left for debate, but I will now read what will not be discussed. The fifth under number 981/13-6-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the safeguarding of the working and insurance rights of employees of Athens Ledra, is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr Katrugalos abroad. Also, the eighteenth under number 929/30-5-2016 topical question from the F Vice-Chairman of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the PASOK-DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou, on the country's bankruptcy and budgetary diversion, is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Juliarakis, abroad. The eighth under No. 945/3-2016 topical question of the second Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotaou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on "the ongoing Albanian challenges", is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible Mr. Kotzias abroad and will be redefined for discussion. Similarly, for the same reason, the eleventh question under number 946/3-6-2016 is not discussed and will be redefined for discussion by the 11th question of the second cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on Turkey's financing through the Consulate of Komotini for the purchase of real estate of devastated Greeks in Thrace. I shall continue later reading the topical and urgent questions which are not discussed so that we can now move on to the last question to be debated and conclude. So the last question to Mr Polakis follows. It is the Fifteenth under No 794/18-4-2016 topical question by Mr. Magnesia MEP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steriou, Minister for Health, on the need to prevent, treat and support the cancerous Volos. Mr. Steeriou, you have two minutes to make your introduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1114	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say that we have tabled this question since 12-4-2016 - it is the sixth time - and now the Minister finally comes in to answer. Minister, we had to see you black eyes. We finally saw you! And you know that we don't ask timely questions to have a communication policy. We are doing them to highlight serious and real problems that exist in all the places and to start solving them, and in particular on this issue, which is very serious. Because - and if you wish, we can generalise it, in a more general situation - the acute problems facing our people today for the protection and restoration of their health, is a result of the anti-popular policy of all the previous governments and of today's policy. The result, therefore, is the hospital and medical care of all the people's families to be an increasingly difficult and expensive commodity, with an increase in all kinds of payments. Oncology patients, cancer patients, i.e., have too many and regular visits to hospitals. It takes multiple and frequent laboratory tests, long term therapeutic interventions, multiple, accompanied by health problems, involving many at the same time pathological and surgical specialities - you know them well, Mr Minister - and they also have burdened psychological problems, as well as their escorts. It is therefore understandable that these complex and increased needs of oncology patients, together with the exceptional poverty of state oncology centres and hospitals, create very serious problems in terms of their timely response and rehabilitation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Scientific studies - Madam President, I will need another minute, with your tolerance - indicate that too many patients with chronic illnesses do not apply appropriate or no treatment because they cannot pay the corresponding fee or because there are huge shortages in infrastructure, equipment, personnel in public health structures. Now I'm going a little to Magnesia. In particular there, Minister, there have been diagnosed more than five hundred cases of cancer patients and there have been seventeen children in the last two years. In fact, from what we have talked about with your fellow doctors of Volos, there are so many more. These patients are living a painful reality for themselves, not only because they have to deal with a serious disease, cancer, but also because - we say it and so it is literally - they are essentially and faced with the inhumane cut in public health spending, where their treatment is regarded as a financial cost. So for them, the health sector, Mr Minister, is not only getting in, but it is also too weak. In particular, there is only one doctor oncologist at Volos Hospital. There was also an adjunct whose end-April contract ended. So you understand, Minister, that this man, this doctor, is incapable of dealing effectively and with full scientific adequacy with this number of patients and no matter what an honest effort he does, which is making genuinely friendly efforts that go beyond the limits of his strength, cannot cover this large number of hundreds of patients. And to tell you features, because we already know Volos, that he can't be absent one day from the hospital. From this point of view, it is now imperative that doctors who will frame the section of this clinic be at least four permanent doctors and that nursing staff be strengthened with at least two nurses and nurses. Another issue, Minister, is lack of radiation therapy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1115	Come on, Mr. Steeriou, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1116	I'm done. I'm putting in the requests. Another issue is the lack of radiation therapy at Volos Hospital. According to data from Volos Hospital, seventy - seventy patients need radiation therapy. These patients, because there is no radiotherapy at Volos, are forced to move to Larissa University Hospital, with great suffering. I would also like to say, Minister, that the only Radiation Therapy Center in Thessaly, in the 5th Ministry, is in Larissa and the machine is very often damaged. Minister, to finish, I ask you what measures the government will take to serve the General Hospital of Volos directly with four permanent doctors and two additional nurses to meet the needs of cancer care and chemotherapy, as well as what actions you will take to establish, fund and operate an Ontherapy Unit with Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy Patients with Cancer, of course, fully equipped and equipped with the necessary permanent staff. Thank you, Madam President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1117	Mr. Polakis, your last answer will be the shortest I can imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1118	The answer is serious, and it must have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1119	Mr. Steeriou, thank you for the question. I'm late to answer, but I'll answer. Well, you know, we're not avoiding responding. I reply to other colleagues who have asked me the question before. Unfortunately, it is insane the program that we are experiencing at the Ministry in an attempt to respond to some needs. We've strengthened it, Mr. Steeriou, Volos Hospital. We've given written samples. I will tell you in particular, and I will answer your specific question. Firstly, last year it had taken 1,000 euros. Right now, this year, it has taken 3,414,000 euros from the state budget. They had predicted that the previous 9,229,000 euros would be received. We gave it on purpose last year to support its operation, 10,600,000 euros. This year, it is planned to take about 600,000 more than last year's budget, that is, 9,812,000. Secondly, as far as medical and nursing staff are concerned, the programming currently in existence is as follows. Since the award ended, after the story that took place with the ASP, you have two people of ATE nursing. They can now be appointed immediately. He's in this process. They're invited to bring the documentation to all hospitals. So you have two TEs of nursing, two PEs of nursing assistants, a HHS assistant health transporter of patients and a radio radiologist. In the five hundred and eighty-five assistants, who too end, you have fourteen. They are four nurses, two CEOs, two OTE operators of medical devices, one ICP of medical and biological laboratories, one ICP of electrical specialists, three OHS assistant health personnel, again for patient transport, and one ICP of technical heaters. In the CEDEFOP notice - which we had the fight previously - you get a doctor's ETP and a nurse's atom to strengthen your unit. In the communication that exists now, the six hundred permanent doctors, and I will say why there is no oncologist. Because there is no vacant organic position - two pediatricians are being proclaimed, an ORL, a pediatrician, two psychiatrists, an anesthesiologist and one for the Intensive Therapy Unit. In the next notice of the AACC, which will come out by the end of the month, the thousands of seventeen hundred people, who, as you heard, will be appointed by the list of nine hundred eighteen, are still fourteen more people from whom the sixteen are nurses, and the two are OHS, again nurses, medical assistants. It's a clear reinforcement of the hospital after too many years. Thirdly, look at what happens with the subject of the oncological clinic. There's no vacancy. First of all, we have declared the position of the second ancillary oncologist three times, because we know that the department is moving. The last act took place on 31-3-2016. But he refused appointment and had already been two. The person who is now coming as an advisor will not finish April. He has an extension until the end of September to the extent he wants...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1120	He left on April 31st.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1121	If he's gone, it's a priest gospel. There is also a proposal from the management board of the hospital, which has the agreement of the 5th Health Region, to convert a position of doctor of pneumonology, tuberculology, into a pathologist and oncologist so that there can be a notice. We can plan this, in the sense of passing through the Central Council of Districts or the KESYPE. I told you that so far we have declared a subsidiary three times and have not gone. We're appointing them and they haven't gone. Second, the one you had, the second, I know he could stay until September. Thirdly, in order to appoint a permanent member, there must be a vacancy in the body. The way for there to be, it's the one I'm telling you. There is also the proposal to have four people in the new hospital organization. This is something that will be discussed on the basis of the needs that exist, Mr Steerios. Because elsewhere they have five hundred or three hundred or four hundred patients and they're two. It's not exactly like that. However, we understand that there is a great need. That is why we are calling for two hundred positions and we would like to put a second subsidiary there. We'll turn it into the next batch with the permanent doctors. Now there's a new commander coming to the hospital, so I think a series of procedures in relation to them will accelerate. Right now, that's the perspective. In order to adjust the hospital organization as a whole, which provides for four places, I cannot answer you positively at the moment. This will depend on the reform of the workers we are going to do. A place will be turned into a permanent doctor's post. Of course, we now have the possibility of calling an ancillary pathologist specialising in oncology again. As far as nursing staff are concerned, it is a very large injection that takes place at Volos Hospital, when all of them are coming. Already, they might start coming. I think that the possibility and functioning of this clinic will also be supported in this context.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1122	I think you don't have to answer either again or you or the Minister. Everybody's covered. You want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1123	We have the dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1124	Let's hear it. You have the floor, Mr. Steeriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1125	There is no arbitrary number four that we call, Minister. It is the scientifically documented view of the only doctor oncologist, a pathologist, who serves at Volos Hospital. We don't say his name for personal data purposes. It's an official document and it's also sent to the Hospital. If you want, you can take it too. Minister, we could well say that you have good intentions to resolve a number of problems and issues that concern the whole health sector. We have no reason to question that. But the reality, Minister, is that you are also a doctor. We think that you are making a huge effort to heal wounds, but at the same time also to erupt a tragic situation that exists today throughout the health sector. We have asked another question, not up-to-date, to your Ministry since the beginning of the year, which of course has not been answered, about the overall problem facing Magnesia in the hospital and health centers and we are highlighting exactly all these issues. Minister, your intentions - I said again - may be very good and have real in your mind to solve health issues. But - I will say exactly - that the policy of the government as a whole - is not a personal choice of your own, you are a government minister - for health is being built on a fat lie. I heard it before, saying a little descriptive with Mr. Georgiadis, who had a fight. So, in the context - you keep saying this - of dealing with the economic crisis as a whole - we have today voted for the development law - and the policy of restoring the national economy and its competitiveness, the people can put forward temporary sacrifices - and it is a sacrifice, you say 'can do it, be patient, you children. Okay, you're cancer patients. You will die a year ahead', macabre what I am saying, but this is probably the way it is - but it will be decisively improved in the course of such an economic situation, your treatment and rehabilitation. Minister, you directly link state funding and recruitment of personnel to hazardous subsidized public health units, terms and conditions for medical visits, laboratory tests, treatments, primary health care services, medicines, care, and costs. It is important because the figures you have said, Mr Minister, are in line with what the financial adjustment allows today. And you connect them to the endurances of the economy, just as the previous governments and Mr. Georgiadis did. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. On the one hand, we have a drastic reduction in the state budget and, on the other, a transfer of more of the expenditure directly or indirectly to the people. Why would he do, Minister, one who needs radiotherapy? There's no machine in Volos. She's going to Larissa. You know it very well, and I'm not implying anything. So she goes to Larissa, to the only machine throughout the 5th RC, which according to the data - I will give it to you personally, if you want, I have no problem - is permanently damaged and must go after Thessaloniki or Athens. And well, if he has five paradoxes in his pocket, he can pay. But if he doesn't, what will he do, Minister? It will not make radiotherapy and faster it is time to cut off the thread of his life just from a disease that is too serious. From this point of view, Minister, we wanted to tell you our main request you did not answer. You made some announcements here too. And last year the Prime Minister made a big announcement about hiring three and a half thousand doctors, but we still haven't seen them. That is why we are saying - and to close - that this health system, which operates within this context of organising the economy and has a unique criterion of profit, seems to be embodied and tragic in the health sector. Because today's the concept that says - I said it before - that if you have money, you can be cured, if you don't have one, you're going like a dog in the vineyard. So he cannot give anything good to man and more specifically to a patient. We, for our part, call on the patients, we also call on you to take all the measures we recommend, but especially the patients, the cancer patients of Volos and their families, to demand a dynamic and racing single, universal, exclusive, public health and welfare system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1126	Okay, you say you're done, but you're not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1127	It matters, Madam President. It needs full and free hospital treatment in all these patients, who really want special treatment. Thank you again for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1128	Mr. Polakis, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1129	Recognise, colleague, that for the first time after seven years expenditure is increased. Don't keep saying they're falling and falling. It increased this year to 800,000 euros. If we don't like reality, we can't repeat the same thing. Secondly, whether there's a need for radiology in Volos is not just a request. It is about what numbers the wider region serve. If Larissa can cover it, I've answered a question sometime ago, and the waiting in Larissa isn't too long. The damage has the machines and they correct them. They've never corrected them before, now they're correcting them where the lesions exist. And all over Crete two machines have only in Heraklion. It doesn't mean there's a need for one in Lassithi and one in Chania. It's about the population you're addressing to meet your needs in relation to radiotherapy. From there on, acknowledge, at last, that after five years - and it is not a question of good intentions, it is a question of good policy - we know the compromise that we have accepted, we know that we have voted on tough measures and measures which we do not believe in and which we are trying as a social counterbalance, through health and education, to balance the impact on both the people's family and poor people and on the middle layers and so on, and we are doing for the first time a serious attempt to strengthen the system. That's why I've answered. At the moment, this is the possibility of turning the position into a permanent position and calling it into the next seventy positions we have, or by amending it in the present notice on the position of the pathologist as permanent. The issue of the four posts as a whole is something that we will see when we discuss with the new administration and the Health Region administration of the Volos Hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1130	Thank you. The number 942/3-6-2016 seventh timely question of the second question of the Greek MP, Mr. Savvas Anastasiades, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the strikes in the port of Thessaloniki, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy. Cause: Occupation of officer at Scaramaga. Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, with regard to the uniformity of the three families with the multitudes, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mrs.Theanos Fotio. Cause: workload. Also, the first with number 984/13-6-2016 topical question of the second question of Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the non-inclusion of Samos in the pilot phase of the implementation of the Social Income of Solidarity, is not discussed for the same reason. Finally, Mr Athanasios Mikelis' question to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the legacy of Ioanna Krikki at the Orphanage of Larissa is not discussed for the same reason. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Friday 1 April 2016, Thursday 7 April 2016, Monday 18 April 2016 and Tuesday 19 April 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1131	The minutes of Friday 1 April 2016, Thursday 7 April 2016, Monday 18 April 2016 and Tuesday 19 April 2016 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-16-S1-commons.u1132	With the consent of the House at 17.02 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 17 June 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) the topical and urgent debate and b) the debate on the number 28/22/26-5-2016 topical question on 'Previous crisis in justice'.
