ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 16 December 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 286/13-12-2016 of the Second Vice President of the Parliament and MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Borough to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, about the rename of the Department of Environmental and Natural Resources of the University of Patras, based in Agrinio, in a Department of Environmental Engineering. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Georgios Kasapidis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Health, on the malfunction of the pathological clinic and the closure of the diabetic doctorate at the “Mamaceio” Kosanis Hospital, despite the global recognition of his offer. 3. The question by No. 273/6-12-2016 of MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgios Germenis to the Minister of the Interior regarding the murder attack by para-state indictment orders to a Member of the Greek Parliament. 4. The 285/13-12/2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK 5. The question by number 291/13-12-2016 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health about the acute problems of the Hospital "Evangelism". 6. The question under number 272-12-2016 of the Greek MP, Mr Ioannis Saridis, on the restoration of injustice in the production of electricity from domestic photovoltaic systems. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 287/13-12-2016 question by MP Lesvos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Pallis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the implementation of the programmes for bluetongue and bee fever in Lesvos and the operation of the Veterinary Department. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 280/12-12/2016 topical question by MP I Piraeus, Nea Konstantinos Katsafandou, Minister of the Interior, on state policies for multiple and third families and the treatment of the demographic issue of the country. 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development about the integration of the second phase of the expansion of the district heating distribution network in Megalopolitan Arcadia. 4. The 292/13-12-2016 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, on the problems of student housing at the University of Epirus. 5. The question by No 276/9-12-2016 of the Independent MEP Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, concerning the need to establish conditions in the ongoing negotiation for the renewal of the concession contract for Eleftherios Venizelos. 6. The 259/29-11-2016 topical question by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the position of Director-General at the Greek Festival. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the need to directly institutionalise the special non-confidential account for all enterprises. 8. The 235/21-11-2016 topical question by Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mrs. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the abandonment of the radiant monument of Amphipolis. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport about the interventions at Nikos Kazantzakis airport in Heraklion Crete. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, Regulations on Social Solidarity and Applicability of Law No.4387/2016 (A'85) and other provisions’. The bill was debated and passed at the beginning of yesterday. Today's session will discuss the articles and amendments of the bill as a unity. Please, SYRIZA's rapporteur...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, before I say anything to the rapporteur, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u3	What do you mean, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u4	We would like the ministers to tell us which parliamentary amendments have been accepted from now, so that we can know and place ourselves on them, because there are too many of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u5	We're waiting for more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u6	The question is when they will have the amendments to say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u7	As soon as they share with you, we'll be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Thraniotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I pointed out yesterday in my position the need for the Greek Parliament to support with the greatest possible majority the measures to strengthen the citizens, who are experiencing the economic and humanitarian crisis in the most cruel way. I also stressed that such a prospect did not mean support for the government, nor to say that we have solved the problem, nor to reward us, but because we need to send a strong signal to society, which is tested by the material policies of the memorandum, that the political system does not care for the weaker, but finds consensus, it can compose opinions and care in particular for those who are in the most difficult position, to send a strong message abroad, that the Greek Parliament decides how the surpluses will be distributed after the agreed implementation. This message must be sent by a large majority so that doors do not remain open for intervention and pressure. And that is not just about the present government. It takes a message to add with that of other Europeans, who realize that the Greek people are being tried hard, but are not alone. And there are such voices. It's not just Mr. Shoeble and those who share him. From the debate, and despite the individual reservations, a wider convergence has been found and comments have been made that improve individual articles. The ministers made legislative improvements and accepted proposals, such as, for example, for the homeless, the guests and the others. The amendments put forward give a solution to issues that are growing up, such as the abolition of the EUR 46 paradox for CSR for the most deprived and the unemployed. As regards concessions for the beneficiaries of the OAED, former OEK, where outstanding issues have been resolved since 1978, not only as regards the concessions, but provision is made for the transfer price and the loans of the beneficiary borrowers are more favourable. However, there was also a glamorous and resentment of whether the money should be given, if there is money, if the economy is to be destroyed if we give it much more. This noise crossed the border and some found the opportunity to promote their destructive policies, unlike the Greek people's will, contrary to what has been agreed. Let's get together. The money for the financial support for low-pensions is available and comes from not from the primary surpluses, but from the overpayment of this year's revenue, from overcompensation of the objectives of the programme that we have agreed and implemented. This real surplus may have needed better processing. But that doesn't change the substance. It must be given this year and it must be given to those who really need it. We do not write it in the next budget, and we see how it will go, as Mr Samaras in 2014. The money for the social income of solidarity has been written in the budget: EUR 760 million in agreement with the institutions and without cutting benefits. No other budget had been entered in the past, nor in 2014, when it was only for thirteen municipalities, but not for 2015 in the budget voted on by the previous government. The programme will be implemented and no pilot will be left, because we have secured the resources. The suspension of the increase in VAT on the islands, an increase imposed on our country by the persistence of creditors, which all parties are asking for is not properly implemented, is something that Europe itself should call for as a minimum recognition of the enormous effort and the burden paid by our islanders to face up to the refugee crisis in the whole of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill does not only include measures to boost extreme poverty. It is accompanied by a combination of social care services for people with disability, unemployment and social exclusion problems, as well as measures to integrate into employment. The national information system mechanism contributes to the modernisation of the administration. It is an instrument but also a part of the implementation of the social income of solidarity. Its application, as we have repeatedly said, is simple, comprehensible and user-friendly, with the protection of personal data. The main thing, however, is that it frees the citizen from the political system and the customer state, restricts corruption and is not a restrictive mechanism, as some have claimed. The measures we are voting on today are certainly not enough. They do not solve the problem of poverty and social exclusion. How could this be done anyway? And twice and three times would have been the sums we could have paid again would have been. More extensive interventions are needed. It needs a radical change in the production model so that society as a whole can participate equally in economic and social life, and that is our objective. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis is global, with inequality constantly expanding. The world around us in Europe, in the Middle East, in Africa is growing. The refugee crisis is getting bigger dimensions than we can imagine. The solution is not to send them back or drown them, as Hitler's nostalgic dreams do. The clean solutions. Cyprus has remained in possession since 1974 and the Cyprus problem seems to have the prospect of a fair solution with the efforts of the two communities. Social cohesion and stability are now more important than ever. With these measures, in these difficult comitology conditions, we are trying to deal with a small part of the poverty, but also to create an institutional framework that operates fairly, efficiently and multiplierly and to give an economic and psychological support to our fellow citizens who are struggling for everyday survival in a country of the European Union of the 21st century. You will allow me to refer to a statement by the Representative of the New Democracy yesterday, which was a surprise to me. Mr Javarras, whose term of office I respect in Parliament, stated that this House is not hospitable for SYRIZA. I mean, in this House he's no owner. The only owner of the House is the Greek people who send us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. The floor will be raised by the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Skourletis, in order to support Amendment No 803, on the subject of 'Confidence Research Centre for Equality Research' and Amendment No 810, on the subject of 'Amendment to supplement the provisions of Article 63 of Law 4415/2016'. A decision by the mayor or regional mayor concerned shall allow the transport of refugees and migrants to and from the hosting structures with passenger vehicles of OTA I and II grades. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, it is another amendment, number 814/65.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u12	It is also Amendment No 814 on the subject of ‘Funds from the Deposit and Loan Fund’. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, as the President has said, I am taking the floor to support three ministerial amendments. One concerns the possibility for the Equality Research Centre to engage in the rental contracts concluded by the General Secretariat of Equality in order to house advisory services for victims of female violence under the same conditions, so that they can in an uninterrupted way continue to operate. It is something that is facilitated so that we do not have any interruption in the provision of these services. I repeat that these conventions entered into the ERC under the same conditions as originally exist. The second amendment concerns the possibility of extending the leases that have been made for schoolchildren, which expire on 31 December of this year, and you realise that we cannot in the middle of the year stop and go to new competitions. So there is a need to extend until the end of the school year. At the same time, for those cases of regions that were not able to tender for the transfer of pupils, the costs incurred after the end of the last tenders, which had been made for the period 2014-2015, may be justified, of course, on condition that the regional director concerned submit and substantiate the inability to tender and, at the same time, to present all relevant documents. In order to clarify the reason for this amendment, this concerns the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace in particular. Also, this amendment provides for the possibility of transporting refugees and migrants to and from the hosting structures with vehicles of OTA I and II grades. This is something that is considered necessary. You realise that the management of this issue must be followed by the maximum possible flexibility and efficiency. The third amendment, with a general number of 814 and a special 65, relates to the Deposits and Loans Fund and the possibility of funding specific studies which help and contribute to the maturation of specific projects. This concerns in particular small municipalities, which do not have the infrastructure to fund such studies. This amount was set by a decision of the Ministry of Finance per year, but was not able to go to a special account if it had not been absorbed and used in subsequent years. So there is the possibility at the moment of setting up a special such account with this very appropriateness, and at the same time - and I think that this is very important because it was a request after consultation of the Deposit and Loan Fund and too many municipalities - that loans may be repaid up to thirty-five years, which have been concluded between the municipalities and the fund, from the twenty-fifths that were today, you can see that it is a measure which, under the circumstances, ensures a very large liquidity necessary for the municipalities to operate and it is necessary to vote in a staggered manner by 31 December so that the municipalities can balance the budgets they have submitted. These three amendments are in short. But let me take the opportunity to address another matter which I consider to be one of the things that seals today's procedure. I refer to the request put forward for a roll-call vote today. It's not about any other, random moment. This is a moment when the Greek Parliament, each one separately and all together, must confirm the right of this government here, that this country can do what is self-evident, that is to say, the possibility of a surplus of the sacrifices of the Greek people as a priority, to strengthen the weaker ones. This responsibility is collective and individual. This right is self-evident for every European democracy and cannot be denied. I have been listening to various arguments since morning: 'Have you consulted me well with the lenders?', 'the agreement stipulates?'. All of this is provided for in the agreement and confirmed by the budget figures, by the objectives, by the achievement. We have an integrated nine-month period from which an over-performance occurs to the specific objectives of the surplus. I do not understand why, as some people say, we should wait to make this decision in February or March. Citizens' needs, pensioners' needs cannot wait. Human lives take precedence over Brussels bureaucracy. So, against this challenge, the democratic national challenge, everyone must take responsibility and it is an opportunity for the Greek Parliament, for the political forces with a sense of responsibility to send a message of unity and unity. Beyond the different approaches, in addition to the different analyses, there is a need for the Greek people, for Greek democracy to stand up against those who play political games and for defending their dignity and self-evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. Mr Marios Salmas has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we were negotiating, and we were government, and we shared social dividends from the result of the sacrifices of the Greek people, but there is a warning difference. The warning difference is that the government has an international diplomacy with which it discusses with the institutions that lend the country, solves the issues and then comes and divides the surplus to the socially weak, which you have not done. Whenever you can't agree with the institutions, because Mr. Tsipras tells them from Kastelorizo that they're foolish, because when he goes to Fidel Castro he attacks Mrs. Merkel and then goes to the institutions to find understanding, but the institutions don't agree with you to give you the right to help the poor, by your behaviour you undermine the poor. Government decent and effective would be the one who solved the issue with the lenders, to help the poor, not the one making lionisms, stumbled into direness! You're bringing in the House a provision. And all parties say that, of course, we agree if you are going to share the surplus with the poor, even though we disagree with the criteria, since they are not the poorest, but in any case we have made the remarks at the beginning of the bill. And who would object to sharing some of the surplus among the poor? What do you want today from the roll-call vote? Take the parties' minutes to see that he had no objections. Why are you voting on a roll-call vote? Because you want to transfer your problem here and get out of here supposedly atonement, so you can go back out and say that the other parties want it too. What's that? Did it ever happen in the past? And I was in a government, and I negotiated troika issues. We never came as a Ministry of Health and tell you that that's not what bad troika does to us, so we should vote roll-call so we can go and tell them. We solved them by demonstrating efficiency in the objectives, measurable results, and people each time said that after you succeeded, make proposals and counter-proposals. Mercy with this populism! Nominal vote to say what? What's next? Expose parties? Since no party has a responsibility for how you share the surplus. You're the government. You're the official one who went to testify to the 1.5 million citizens that we're giving you the allowance. What are you asking us now? Didn't you go alone to the people? And Mr Tsipras, for the 1.5 million citizens, came out with a strong statement and said, 'glorify me'. What you ask of the House. Tell us. Are you asking us to vote on the roll-call vote? And then what? You'll go to half a million citizens to tell them "You know, it's not our case. To credit this political benefit to other parties.’ That is political honesty. That's it, isn't it? Since you cannot alone, if the parties say yes to the roll-call vote, you must go to the Greek people to say that it does not belong to us, but to all parties. That's the reading. Is there any other reading? I'll come to the bill to clean up the conversations. SYRIZA is forbidden to speak that he supports the poor. I'm not going to report to that. It's a matter of budget. We've been through this. He bled the retired, he bled away everything that produces wealth with high taxation, increased poverty. Minister, I asked you to discreetly yesterday: what is the purpose of a government? To limit the number of people under the poverty line or to manage poverty? The Bank of Greece - and you did not give an answer, but I repeat it in more detail - says: From the 2015 measures, the burden has been unequally shared among the poor. Inequality indicators are being launched. An explosion of the relative poverty index of 9% - was reduced by 9.2% in 2014 - and a growth of the poverty gap is recorded at 12.8% and the risk of poverty by 16.1%. All this on SYRIZA. And now you're here to tell us you're socially sensitive. The Greek citizens who hear this have put in their minds that the SYRIZA Government has increased the poor in Greece. Similarly, the Gini index that measures social inequalities increased by 1.6%, while the indicator that counts - listen to this! - how many times is the income of 10% of the richest in comparison to that of 10% of the poorest Greeks also increased, suggesting a deterioration of the inequalities of 9.1%. Even Thatcher didn't do that. This has never happened, to increase the inequality between the rich and the poor. I am not saying it, the Bank of Greece says it in a report. And you didn't question her. Now, Minister, we have told you about the support mechanism that we are prepared to vote on it, because it is prerequisite, it is heresy, so that you continue to finance projects under Objective 9 of the Regional Operational Programmes, co-financed by the European Social Fund. After all, it is part of the National Social Integration Strategy, which started in 2012, completed by the previous New Democracy Government - the co-government, to be honest, with PASOK - entered the European Commission and adopted it. That is why no one can say that they will not vote for it. We have made the point about the complexity of the mechanism and we have expressed our doubts as to whether it will work. We pointed out the duplication and duplication of the bodies and units you create. We pointed out that people who are in social exclusion, in poverty and the unemployed will no longer have access to "one Stasis Service", so that they can go to the municipality and there too, be the OAED employee, be all and try to reinstate themselves into the labour market. The Services will send him back to the OAED. You didn't hear it, and you didn't make any corrections. We told you that the draft law on how these poor people will be actively reintroduced, who will receive the social solidarity allowance, does not have any initiative and action. He has no prediction. I asked the president of the OSCE at the hearing of the bodies in the committee and did not say something was changing. It's another bill. No one understood how, tomorrow, the employment measures will be practically increased, to get away from the EUR 200 of the Social Solidarity allowance and to join the labour market. In other words, active reintegration policies are lacking and the bill is dominated by passive integration policies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need one, two minutes, Mr. President. Thank you. We have told you that the concept of social welfare is missing, that the concept of subsidiarity is missing and that the concept of individualisation is missing. Minimum guaranteed income: It is an action launched by the New Democracy, from the coexistence with PASOK to be fair. You've been late for two years to continue. We applied it to thirteen municipalities and extended it to thirty. You, allegedly, went to the piles of the poor, to make a similar communication policy again. You've been late two years, so you can come and say it has to go on. And you changed his name to believe it. People know, society knows, because it's an action that's started a long time ago. Now, for the Single Social Security Agency, there's a salt, there's chaos. It is supposed to work in fifteen days and bring in more than a hundred pages an establishment plan, where you say with an article at the end that this will be abolished when the regulation, the establishment plan and the single social security body are established. That's a peculiar one. On the amendments, we have several comments to make. We'll see them in our dentistry. I don't want to say anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u17	You're welcome, Mrs. Fotou. Do you want to speak properly or intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u18	No, I won't speak normally, just for a minute, because there's been a misunderstanding. Mr. Salma, you know I respect your parliamentary experience. Yesterday you were not in the Chamber when I tabled the reply and the relevant documents. I thought you'd read it. Mr Salma, on the report by the Bank of Greece, which invokes EUROMOD, I would like to say that EUROMOD is a process in which the views of the people are taken on a sample basis. No measurement markers. We questioned all the evidence yesterday. At the same time, you submitted 166 page, while you did not deposit the 165 page or the 164 page, which we tabled, expressly stated that the humanitarian crisis measures for 2015 were not evaluated. In addition, however, Mr President, in order not to worry you, I submitted the 2016-23 June 2016 report from ELSTAT for 2015. It's official numbers. 2012, therefore, at risk of poverty or social exclusion, is 34.6%. In 2013 we had an increase of 35.7%. Increased to 36% in 2014. In 2015, we had a decrease to 35.7%. These are official data from ELSTAT. I tabled this to the House too. Let us know. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u20	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Salma, I honestly didn't understand what you were questioning first of all. I'm not answering this joke you said that SYRIZA can't refer to the unemployed and the socially weak. I can take that as a charity. Do you question their goals and achievement? Say it. The target has been overcovered, yes or no? Secondly, when you see that there are backsliding from certain European circles - and I am referring to Mr Symble - and at the same time feel the need for Mr Moscovici, Mr Pittelas, you, honestly, are taking a stand against this dialogue, which concerns our country, primarily the weaker ones. I didn't hear anything. I have heard a general agreement and an awkward attitude, which I can explain for one reason alone. Do you know who that is? First of all, your ideological and political affiliation to the Siomple proposals, and above all the attempt to cover those voices from your party and especially your Vice-President who says, "What Mr Siomple tells us, we will do more." If, therefore, your political attitude is dictated by such a kind of argument and opinions, please say it so that the Greek people know what you are doing in the end. Otherwise, you know what? You'll remind me of the man who says the killer always goes back to the crime scene. And your government's views were murderous, they were disastrous for pensioners, for workers. At the moment, then, you have an opportunity: Rinse some of your responsibilities and get yourself together with national self-evident. So please tell us what you are going to do as a party in today's motion for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u23	Let me tell you. Under the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Koukoutsi...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u24	Two ministers spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u25	I'm sorry. The Minister intervened under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u26	It's set.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Salmas has a dentext four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u28	That's right. I'll remove him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u29	If the House agrees, I shall give the floor, taking the time away from the denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u30	Please, Mr Salma, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u31	Minister, with all due respect for your capacity and your role, I have to say something to you: dividends to the poor, you give when you have a real surplus, which comes from the production of wealth. You took the pensions - because you were in the Ministry - more money than people themselves who are now coming back. For example, you received 850 million from the retention of 6% and 4% from the main and supplementary pensions to give them to the EEAS. You didn't give them. Isn't that a deception of the world? You told them, "I'll get them from your pension to give them to your health." You didn't give them. Where'd you do it? You withholded them. This is a concrete example. This is called a political trick, not to say otherwise. You also have EUR 1.4 billion outstanding in the EEA today, which you owe to the market. Where's your surplus that you're coming now to share with the poor? That is not, Minister, good political support for the poor. It is not possible for the poor to support tricks and terrestrials. In practice, you need to be serious, you need to do a serious job, you need to show a responsibility, you need to convince the lenders, you need to convince the Greek citizens you deceive, so that you can have an effect on your policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u32	What are you going to do in nominal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u33	Since we have a denomination, we'll respond to the denomination.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u34	You're welcome. Mr. Koukoutsis has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, be quiet. Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u35	Let the New Democracy and the SYRIZA we exist and others forgive us. Honestly, we apologise for our existence. Never and nowhere in the history of humanity has there been an example of bliss in countries where "development" met only the needs of the foreign factor and a few local speculators. On the contrary, such states were finally driven by the foreign factor and its co-operating governments in the economic catastrophe so that through neo-colonial relations the robbery, further dismantling and regression of these states can be completed. These relations are imposed through subordination mechanisms such as the IMF, the World Bank and the European Central Bank, etc. These mechanisms impose anti-democratic policies on speculators they represent through memoranda, which provide for the impoverishment of the lower classes of the artificially bankrupt state and the strengthening of the above classes and of local speculators. This in terminology is the right, capitalist, called'stabilization'. That's her name. It is the stability that is imposed by aggressive mechanisms like the IMF and others. Everywhere and always it is known that they establish two main classes: the few riches and the large number of unbelievable poor people who have no access to social service, because they have been cut sharply and largely because of the shrinking of the state with ridiculous excuses supported by the extremist, predatorial and inhuman neoliberalism. Never and nowhere in the history of humanity is there a successful example of the application of the absurd political capitalist mechanisms of the IMF. On the other hand, never and nowhere until today in the history of humanity the Left has made redistribution of wealth. All he has done - with great success in doing so - was reallocating poverty. The Left has within its sperm, in its starting ideology the equalization of society, an equalisation of everything downwards, in poverty, poverty, so that the powerful mechanism of the party - state can control all aspects of human life and activity, even when it does not have adequate repressive mechanisms. The aim of the Left - and the Greeks have it on the left at the back of their minds, they have it, they have it, and they will have it - is the creation of the two classes: elite and impoverished. Today's coup d'état, not inspired by Latin American socialist equilibrium, has put in place such a plan. The fact, of course, that the country belongs to the European Union, NATO, etc., is a small blockade that cuts down some applause. However, the Government is trying to impose suffocating control over social life through the tax raid it has launched, by obliging citizens, by means of indirect and direct taxes, to limit their lives, in order to find the resources for the maintenance of the waterhead, inefficient, cannibalistic, client-private state, which is its only support, i.e. the public. Every day's leakage, and, as I said, indirect and direct, is aimed not only at collecting funds but also at destroying citizens so that they do not resist the restriction of other freedoms in the background of this coexistence. On the pretext of the mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating policies of integration and cohesion, with a view to strengthening social protection, with the aim - supposedly - of combating poverty, in this bill you are making some interventions. What do you actually do? You put sugar in the poison. It is a question of how all this can be implemented in practice and, above all, of whether something changes. Instead of speeding up procedures, instead of flexibility, what do we see? We see other, new mechanisms that enhance bureaucracy to make the people comfortable and, ultimately, not to produce a job. With your policy - quite rightly said to the committee by one of the institutions - the beneficiary becomes a benefit. You, that is, self-righteousness, call them privileges. We said that to combat extreme poverty - extreme poverty! - which we currently have in the country is not enough for structural changes. We need a new production model, any reform. These are the essential elements of a long-term policy to combat economic hardship, the unemployment it causes, the development and production of wealth. Meanwhile, people who are below the poverty line - extreme poverty! - They want support now, they want support immediately. The heroism we see in this Chamber has no meaning, but no meaning. The lions you see today have voted for a common consensus in this Chamber in the last memorandum. And we hear today that we need to raise our heads up and oppose those who come to the Hilton and not say what they do on a daily basis in today's coexistence. So they themselves, who each day go to Hilton and bend the head, come today to say that, "We will save the place", "We will do the one", "We will do the other" and engage in lionisms for a squirrel that they will give. But retired people have to take this, because they need it. They need 50 euros and 30 euros, not 300, 200 or 400. They have to take it. But is that their salvation? What's that? It's, like we said, an aspirin for cancer. Let's not walk. Let's not say things that don't apply. Heroisms elsewhere. You all together decided to stay the Virgin Mary of 2015 to proceed with the further impoverishment of the Greek people. "It is too late for tears, Stella!" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's Vice-President Mr Spyridon Lykoudis from Potami is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 19-12-2016 to 22-12-2016. Also Mr. George Amyras from Potami seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 22-12-2016 to 28-12-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u37	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Mr Katsotis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. This is the second day we are discussing this draft law and we have these developments that we have all seen yesterday. We therefore want to say a few thoughts. What is behind these developments, behind the International Monetary Fund officials' articles on the negotiation, behind the decisions of the ESM, but also from what Siomple and the capital's representatives say? They are the fierce conflicts between the imperialist centres. There are the reclassifications that exist today in the imperialist system, but also within the European Union itself. They are the major constituencies between the European Union and the United States. There are major difficulties in the capitalist economy to emerge from the capitalist crisis. The alternatives and conflicting scenarios relating to the future of the Eurozone, so-called European integration are found. This development clearly shows how hostile to the people's interests is the confrontation that is under way, focusing on negotiating the second assessment and the next measures. In total, the acute contradictions and problems manifested in the international capitalist system have emerged. And it is confirmed that the working class, the people, must bring its own agenda on the agenda to satisfy its current needs. These, of course, cannot exist, if there is no conflict with its capital and its power, with their imperialist associations and their governments. Because the governments are serving these interests today, as are you. These interests are served through this policy, by your single strategy, by your memorial programme, the first, the second, the third, the third, which you have all voted together and which is bleeding our people. In this process of implementing the third memorandum, we have the elements of the poverty of our people. In this way of defending the profits, the needs of big capital, it is true that the work for all workers does not fit in, that unemployment will be the one that today is going to be abundant at very large levels. However, at a time when unemployment was growing, unemployment was high for him who was unemployed. They do not fit into this system of rights that are stable, such as working rights, full and stable work. It is the need for capital. And the governments, you parties that serve her, what are you doing? Its demands are called "reforms" and you come here and legislate on elastic work, euphoria, flexicurity, as they have called it in the European Union, which in particular lead young people and young people to wages of EUR 100 and 150, to a subordinate wage that has been placed on the agenda of the capital and all those agencies that serve it, such as the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and their governments. What will it say, gentlemen,'submissive wages'? Where are you taking our kids? Work with 100 and 150 euros and then tell them, "We'll send you to the solidarity structures, you'll have the minimum or social income of solidarity, the 200 euros a month." You condemn young people and young people in a future dark, in a future without dreams. In this system, therefore, there is no need to satisfy either the basic needs. And today we have hunger for the people, the homeless, the malnutrition in schools. And what do you suggest? You say you'll deal with the mechanism. And yesterday Mrs Fotio consecrated us as a JRC and said: “Okay, New Democracy. But do you, the JRC, want this national mechanism that ensures the public character of structures and solidarity?" We said yesterday - it seems that Mrs Fotou did not understand it, so we will repeat it today - that the JRC has never stood up to the new technology. It's with science and technique. That is why it says that today the science, technique and productivity of work enables our people to meet the expanded needs. But who is it that forbids it? They are the objectives of capital, which are its increased profitability, which are its own designs. And today you serve them. And what are the objectives of the chapter on solidarity? It is to be very cheap working power and to make structures, to give them a dish of food. It wants unemployment to rise, because this is its design, to invest, that is, anywhere in the world, where it has profits. And because there will be unemployment and there will be no social explosions, there will also be a dish for the unemployed, having a social grocery store or a social pharmacy. But is that what you build perspectives for workers, young people, young people, women, mothers, fathers? What will this national mechanism that you are going to do today and bring to the bill? It comes to enable the automatic cutter to function properly. Since we have the national mechanism and we will have all the benefits, there will also be the cut-off, which you are committed to being paid when the numbers do not come out and cut off wages, pensions, benefits and whatever is directed at the people. So this mechanism will work on this line, as, of course, it worked - as I said yesterday - the CCPs, the Disability Certification Centres, where the'slaughter' was a great one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And because I do not want to get far - and I want to finish with this in time: there has been a lot of discussion about the amendments, particularly the one which comes to implement the Prime Minister's announcement of financial support for pensioners. So what do we say? We said yesterday that, of course, we will vote on it, because pensioners need this aid. However, we have brought forward and tabled an amendment here as a JRC, which we are calling for the tenth and fourteenth pensions for pensioners to be reintroduced. They've paid them. They have lost EUR 50 billion from their pensions from 2010 until now and what they get back is, of course, a very small piece. We therefore want this request to be implemented by the pensioners, who this afternoon have an all-Greek rally. And their request is to cover the losses in pensions, to restore the thirteenth and thirteenth pensions. We therefore call on the government to accept the amendment. However, we also call on the other parties to put themselves on the amendment brought by the JRC, because that solves the institutions, institutionalises, or restores the institution of this pension which allows pensioners to live decently. Of course, we claim to cover the losses. From there on, we have said about the other arrangements in the bill. It is materializing the Katorugalou law, and we are completely against it. That was a law - looting. He brought great poverty to a large population in our country. That is why we are not voting on any of his articles, nor, of course, on the other articles. We are voting on the amendment to the Houses Agency because it gives concessions to the beneficiaries of the dwellings. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the "Collar Republic Workshop" educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th Collargo Municipal School. The House, guys, welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Varis High School. The House, guys, welcomes you. The special speaker of the river party, Mr Barriotas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the process of discussing the bill is, on the one hand, exhausted in my view, we have, I think, completed all our parties and arguments and our position already since the previous sitting, but yesterday's developments in Europe have, in any case, changed considerably, the timeliness and the essential object of this debate. For the first part, I will be very concise, since I think we have been placed and analysed our position. Very briefly, I would like to say that we voted 'no' in principle in this bill, mainly because of the process of urgency, the mismanagement and the poor preparation of a very important piece of legislation. We will vote in favour in principle of the need to create a mechanism, but of an efficient mechanism, which guarantees effective control and recording. I am afraid that with the logic of unlocking, absorption - because this bill will indeed unlock some credits that are necessary for welfare - but in previous years and previous experiences say that we can well go bankrupt, absorbing credits and disseminating them in the wrong way. The second problematic part, in my view, is the postponement of the effective homogenisation of our insurance system in a fund. In practice, it is suspended for an indefinite period with the provisions, with the amendments of the Katorugalou Law, which reminds us that it has only been six months since the unification of the funds into a fund. Minutes are adopted and the very bad practice of previous years is perpetuated. New management councils enter the top of a tree of endless management councils. I hope that will change. I think that in the Katrugalos bill, the insurance bill, it was perhaps the most important section of the provision for effective integration of the funds, which is unfortunately deferred indefinitely, because the fact that we had been postponing it since then has been postponed. It is a titanium project, which goes beyond the technical capabilities of the public itself at this stage. But it has to be done. The vote on this whole part was in this sense, that we insist on the need for effective integration of the funds, which only benefits in the long term have to give. It seems that the Government, on the one hand, for technical reasons and, on the other hand, awkwardly opposed to synergy interests, with which it has allied from the past, is unable to do so. You will allow me to talk about the rest of the year above all about the famous amendment and the environment, making a small back flash. Just these days - yesterday in particular - the famous 'parallel' programme of the Government was being discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, which has been a little synthesised on the knee by collecting various amendments to the previous draft law and an incomplete draft of the Ministry of Health, which has been passed on to the Committee on Social Affairs with triumphs about a parallel programme. I would remind you that at that time major opposition, namely the New Democracy, the Democratic Integration and the River, has departed from stressing that the process is not correct and, above all, that there is no guarantee that this will be implemented. The same divisive rhetoric that has been developed here by Mr Skourletis on collaborators, banks - those from here - and the foreign agents, etc. - has been developed in exactly the same way by other government speakers at that meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and the next day the government "has made savages" in the commonly called bill following a request from the institutions. I'm sorry, the troika. So I think we should get serious somewhere. No one objects to giving money to people who need it. That is, at the outset, a given. And no one is struggling and wonders what Potami or Democratic Integration or the Centro Association will do, whether or not he will say yes to that, because anyway this amendment has guaranteed majority voting and will go through. The question is what the government is seeking with this exacerbation, what exactly is the strategy of the government and what it wants to achieve from the roll-call vote in the House, and what it will do with the result of the roll-call vote tomorrow or the day after tomorrow in the negotiations with the institutions? The questions I think need to be answered, at least in the day, and one should come to tell us - the Minister responsible, obviously - what exactly has happened, what exactly has happened and what is the government's pursuits in relation to this legislation and its interaction with negotiation? The main questions that exist and remain unanswered are in relation to what the government is seeking. Does it pursue what was intended and last year's'solution before Christmas at all costs', so that we are prepared to vote for another amendment from a week that will cancel last year? Does it seek to extend the question of evaluation until summer, which will be disastrous for the Greek economy? Is it seeking elections, as has been rumoured and hintedly referred to by many MPs still in the channels and in public statements? What exactly does the government want at this stage? In fact, the government today calls on the parties to put themselves on the table, not on whether or not they wish to distribute aid to retired people. It's two completely different questions. The first question is easy to answer and I think it will be answered unanimously by Parliament. The second question, however, is the need for information, which does not exist, as the government seems to compose a strategy that consistently follows and pursues some solutions. We, like all the parties in this House, will be very responsible, but, above all, since we have the information we need to have and which the government has to submit during the current procedure through the relevant Minister. There are huge questions that remain unanswered. I mentioned them before, and I will put them again. What does the government want to do? What's her goal? He wants to do it, Cugie, just to say it, or does he want a solution? And if he wants a solution, what is this solution and when does he pursue it? The situation since last night with the freezing of the short-term measures of the ESM and the exacerbation in relations with our allies - lenders - tell them what you want - is particularly difficult and acute. One must be placed by the government responsibly, let me say, the splits easily on 'German germans', 'actors' and 'patriots'. This is a rhetoric that the government itself has repeatedly used and overturned. If we really want unanimity, we must move forward - firstly the government and then the opposition - which are necessary. That's why acidification and tens of festives don't help it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Mr Papachristopoulos, special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it's cool to see the reality that we have before us. This is not the first time that new issues and new obstacles have arisen in the final phase of a negotiation. I believe that this negotiation, the second assessment, could not be an exception. What do I mean? A large part of Europeans now have realised that the Greek Government has almost met 99% of the prerequisites and we are in the final agreement, and I believe that the second assessment will be made, which is an important prerequisite for getting into the quantitative relaxation of Mario Draghi. What just happened? Let's put things down calmly and say the following. The government had a surplus of labor, sacrifices. Did he have the legal cover to make it available? Not only did he have the cover, but he also had the obligation to do it, because otherwise he would go to debt if he would leave it for 2017 and indeed, not all, but a 30%. Let some people carefully read our obligations and I think they will agree with us. He did the self-evident thing. Once the surpluses went elsewhere, they went to bills, Panama Papers, Lagard, "SIEMENS" and various others. It's not time for us to dig up. Today, at a time of economic suffocation, which we all know about what the Greek citizen is going through, it became self-evident for a million and hundreds of thousands of citizens. For God's sake, no one said that the problem was solved, but that is how the government was judged. They had to be helped that way. It's a temporary way. For God's sake, nobody said too much! At the same time, the Prime Minister announced to Nisserra 30 measures for islanders, which it is not accidental to accept, such as Labetusa in Italy, to say the other one - as we do - the greater pressure on the immigration problem. The whole of Europe has deserved us for this, even Obama and the Pope and everyone. So another self-evident thing was done by the Prime Minister and he said "children, these people need to be helped, they pull everything". Indeed, they're pulling the pandemics. He made no exaggeration, did not come against the legal sense of world opinion. The third is this bill, where seven hundred thousand citizens will benefit. It's a small one, but it's a start, a principle that goes into the social state. I do not know which reasonable person on the planet could be opposed to these options in a country where we do not say so, but EUROSTAT says that 50% of the citizens - and I am not talking about extreme poverty, which is already cleared for about a million five hundred thousand citizens - are touching the limits of poverty. Who, in fact, will object to these choices? I believe that it was a sacred obligation and it is a unique opportunity for the answer that the Greek Parliament will give to these distortions of reality. We know how hard we took the cut, if, say, the surplus was not 0.5% and we had to give it equivalent. That is our obligation, and that is what we have responded to. Next year can be 1.75%. If it is not 1.75% and it is 1.60%, equivalent, or what we have been charged in 2018, 3.5%, unbearable, we have signed it. How far are we breaking a deal? First of all, let's make it clear. For those who haven't figured it out, Shoeble and Tomsen are something in common. When the financial staff comes from one door, Tomsen enters or when he comes in, Tomsen comes in. I say that for those who have an idea of what's going on. I think that what Shoeble does - Mr Shoeble, the respected Mr Shoeble, the German Finance Minister - is his inalienable right, but I think that the pretexts have no longer kept them. So far, he's been holding a somewhat diplomatic attitude. I think not only will it hurt us, but it will do us good. I am not referring, in fact, to the statement by Pitella or Moscovisi, but I believe that the sound thinking pan-European public is on our side. I believe that this assessment will end and end positively for our country. Some people who - I'm sorry to say - have invested their political survival not to slander the government, but not to care - for a fire mixed up - to destroy the country. It is something that Greek citizens will understand sooner or later. Already, I believe that these three measures are not the first ones. It is the bell for what this government is thinking about suffering Greek citizens. Some people in this Chamber know they won't have any reason to exist. The social state will fight it with fingernails and teeth. The first step has been taken and I think there will be more to do. I believe that everyday life will come back and at some point the Greek citizens will see who is really close to them. And we also made mistakes of danger, to make our self-criticism at least in the January elections, because in the invisible elections in September there was no mistake. We said very clearly and clearly: 'They have forced us to do this. Do you want us to manage it, yes or no?’ And we went to elections. The world has chosen us. I also want a truth to be restored without exacerbating the climate. I would ask the Members of the New Democracy to read very carefully what exactly we signed on page 1,115 for the surpluses after 2018. I would like them to read it carefully. I'll testify to the Minutes, get it, reprint it and see it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute more, Mr President. No official commitment exists. It is clear that these texts, referred to by the Member of the New Democracy, do not reflect reality. In the same text, there is both 1.5% and 2%. They have nothing to do with the official text signed by the Greek Government, which I tabled in the Minutes. Let the Members of the New Democracy read it before they start bailing - not with great responsibility, I would say - against the government. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Finally, I would like to say this: it is a unique opportunity at 1 p.m. the time when the vote is to take place. I'm making a friendly appeal. I'm one of those people I want at some point to stop making mistakes. We will be judged by the history of how the country has arrived here, what and who the Greek citizen is paying today. Let us leave this at the moment, because we are actually having a difficult time. So we have a sacred obligation to admit at the moment. A message tomorrow will be much stronger and our negotiating position will be very great. I call for anxiety, if you like - I said it yesterday in my speech, as if I were a prophet, I call it again - that the Greek Parliament should give a mandate to the Prime Minister for self-evident reasons. It's not right to give the lenders an account of whether we're going on a date with our wife or whether we're going to eat at the tavern, because that's what this is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u43	The reason for this is the special employer of the Association of Central Banks, Mr. Megalo-Economics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in yesterday's speech I referred to in detail, I believe, in Chapter I of the bill. It is therefore planned to record the people who receive some kind of benefits and, above all, because we will finally be able to identify effectively all the people who live in poverty so that we can help them. Of course, all this should have happened for years in Greece, on the basis of the revised European Social Charter and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Indeed, they were also a prerequisite for the NSRP 2014-2020. Of course, at the point where our batch has arrived, we come to say 'good slow and never again'. In this direction and in order to maximise the performance of the whole project, I consider it essential to upgrade the National Committee on Social Protection under Article 12. This committee will consist of a large number of members and will include representatives of many important bodies, including members of the National Confederation of Greek Trade and even representatives of the Church of Greece. Thus, it aspires to have a comprehensive account of all the parties involved on how social reality is reflected. In order to monitor the social phenomena, however, I think it is not enough for the National Committee on Social Protection to meet only once a year. I think it would be more useful to meet at least three times, so that each member of the committee can monitor developments and contribute with his opinion on the basis of how the implementation of the mechanism is progressing. Otherwise, we are talking more about a decorative instrument and less about a substantial effort for constructive dialogue. With regard to the costs of the two Directorates of the bill, the Social Integration and Social Cohesion Directorate in Article 7 and the Poverty Control Directorate in Article 8, I have already raised my objections by the committee responsible. This is because the wage costs for new organic jobs, which will be created, will reach EUR 864,000 per annum. The Minister has pledged that the posts will be covered by transfers and secondments. However, as this does not result in an obligation by the bill, we expect to see whether the relevant government commitments will be complied with. Accordingly, the budget burden is caused by the creation of new positions in the State’s Legal Council to meet the needs of the ECAA and by the provision of advisory and other legal services to the new insurer. The annual wage costs amount to 624 000 euros. Of course, I must admit that the ECJ will have to deal with a huge amount of new cases and therefore the Legal Council of the State is required to do so. But the annual burden is important. Of the main points of the bill are, in fact, Article 8 and the structure of the Anti-Poverty Directorate. However, I find it extremely disappointing that from a description of this article it appears that the Directorate's responsibilities are beginning and ending in the exploitation and management of the Social Solidarity Income. However, as the Minister has stressed, and we all understand it, the most essential thing is not to give our weak fellow people a small financial aid which will hardly help them survive. The essential and real question is to give the citizens of our country who have reached the limits of impoverishment, the necessary supplies, the necessary impetus to return to society, to return to active work. Only then will we be able to say that there has indeed been an incision to date. However, this bill, unfortunately, makes very vague and frequent references to the issue of professional rehabilitation. There is, of course, provision for the participation of the OAED, but we have not received any specific commitment as to how extensive the involvement of people living within the limits of poverty in employment programmes will be. I would also like to stress my grave concern at the fact that personal data protection legislation is absolutely and without any derogation. For the first time, the Single Geographical System is set up in Article 19, where the register of beneficiaries will be kept and there will be all the elements of the people who have requested assistance from the system. Of course, strict sanctions are provided for in the event of any leakage of these elements of citizens. However, there is absolutely no provision in this article for specific preventive measures, so that we do not get to the infringement of the legislation. As we all understand, the people who will be recorded are people who will try to get out of marginalisation and trust the state. If any leak of their data occurs, it will be devastating. With regard to the Social Income of Solidarity under Article 22, I would like to make a comment. While the bill aims to unify the systems for dealing effectively with poverty, I notice a breakdown of the system. In particular, Article 22 on Social Income of Solidarity will be given to the homeless. At the same time, however, the Government has also tabled an amendment number 807 extending until the end of 2017 of the 'House and Reintegration' programme, which offers housing and jobs to homeless people. All action in favour of the homeless is to be integrated and ultimately everyone, who belongs to this category, has access to specific employment programmes. Not only those who happened to choose the Housing and Reintegration programme, but those who would be recorded through the National Mechanism should be able to make use of specific projects of particular housing. The third chapter of the bill relates to implementing provisions and amendments to the already adopted Katorugalou Law, L.4387/2016. Thus, today's bill reinforces the problems created by the new insurance law, since it also brings new provisions in a problem. For example, Article 24 provides for the following. Those belonging to the category of persons insured with heavy and unhealthy health, as well as the mothers and fathers of incapable children, as well as those insured with chronic and special illnesses, lose the increase in their pension even though they have paid increased contributions. Of course, such a regulation creates injustices to these categories of citizens, who are even vulnerable. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the government's overall attitude and the choices of the Prime Minister to exploit the need for our fellow citizens - especially the low pensioners - are, if anything, dangerous for the country. After yesterday's unpleasant developments, on the part of our partners, now more than ever, there is an absolutely imperative need for an overall understanding of all the parties. Finally, we must all realise that it is the only solution offered by the Central Association, that only through convergence and cooperation will we be able to help our country get out of the way. For the rest of the time, our parliamentary representative will speak to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you. The reason for this is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mrs Eve Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, since yesterday I think that our stance in this bill has become clear. We could only vote in favour of those articles, the majority of them - apart from Articles 7, 8, for the clarifications made by Mrs Fotio - on the issues of the National Social Integration Mechanism. It was our policy. You continued it. And, indeed, it's something that the country needs, we need our most sensitive fellow men. The same applies to Chapter II, for the minimum guaranteed income or for social solidarity, no matter what. But we must apply it soon enough. And, of course, we expressed our complete disagreement with the last group of articles on the law implementing - looting law, the Katrugalo Law, the law that really cut pensions and abolished the EASA, which the so-called so-called negotiation of the so-called left-wings brought to the country among other problems. Mr Petropoulou, Minister, here I have a complaint from the Board of Directors of the OSCE - IKA that, for example, you have forgotten an entire address to include in Thessaloniki. Yesterday I and many other colleagues from many of the wings of this House spoke to you about clandestineness, we told you that you literally slapped addresses. I want to put it in the Minutes and take it into consideration. Would you do something about this matter? [[At this point the Member, Mrs. Paraskevi, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] We have obviously disagreed with the monolithic EFKA format, which cannot function and we have told you. So we are also voting against this group of provisions. Has it been heard that there will be a roll-call vote on the amendment giving this allowance - crumb - but is it, anyway, an allowance - to pensioners? That's what it sounds like. It is clear that you have failed everything. I said it yesterday. Two o'clock! Hurricanely, the provisions on debt. They're freezing now. Increased surpluses, which you signed wide-planned for after 2018, 3.5% for ten years, which do not come out. And you've given the cutter. You've given him the cutter, and all you have left is the 'dickers', that is, not to name the cutter's measures! The cutter exists, ladies and gentlemen of the government. The axe also exists on retired people, professionals, creative Greece, as well as on the people of active ages. You have all achieved this in two years, with only EUR 7.5 billion accumulated on the people's backs, and you have also only in this EUR 2.4 billion budget. You come and share 617 million euros to the low pensioners, who really need them. You are forgetting, however, both the poor unretired over-ages and the unemployed and the single-parent families and the multiples, many of our fellow people who would benefit from such treatment from a surplus. But remember, ladies and gentlemen, how did this surplus come out? Remember that it came out of the blood of the Greek people you incapable, why did you want to make the 'barifacy negotiation', to do the Tertipi and the hurricanes of Mr. Tsipras, who proudly took the 'no' of the people and then turned it into a big 'yes' to Mr. Soible? Who gave the property of the Greek people to the superstate for ninety-nine years? You, the great negotiators and the so-called progressive, with your ANELS partners, have done this. And today you come and tell us what? That of all the burdens you have accumulated to the Greek people, you get the modest sum of EUR 617 million and give it to the low-pensioners. Give it to me, then. Give it to me. You say that you will also vote on a roll-call vote. Make a roll-call vote. I do not understand, but I do not understand the attitude of the New Democracy. I heard Mr Salma - I heard him from above, unfortunately, why couldn't I come down, we had a meeting - say 'Why are we doing nominal?' Is New Democracy afraid of something? What are you afraid of? Mr Shoeble or the European People's Party do not take their ears, why for austerity? Because, as you know, the European People's Party, under Symble, and Merkel - both of them, in any case, to remember both the'medicalists' - has lifted the flag of absolute austerity and held it. But in the context of the Socialist Party, the Social Democrats, another logic is being developed. This logic of the second force in Europe today is the logic - not the logic of the so-called left - that can overthrow austerity policies. So I don't understand. Has New Democracy feared Mr. Tsipras' term of term, or has Mr. Shoeble been afraid of pulling her ear? We have tabled - and I call again all parties - two 'breath' amendments for the world. One is the discrepancy of personal accounts at EUR 1500, as it was before. Listen to it, ladies and gentlemen, and the government and the New Democracy, and take a stand. I want to hear the Civic Opposition. We had this at 1500 euros the irreversible one, and at the initiative of Vassilis Kegeroglou and PASOK, then the privileges of the disabled, the allowances of our fellow human beings or those groups in need of special aid because of disasters and earthquakes were excluded. So this is what the Democratic Reconciliation, PASOK and DIMAR are voting for today. So I invite you all to vote on it. No matter how negotiable, vote. You also vote in favour of the amendment to the other bill concerning the irresponsibleness of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which is required to survive. Listen. Why does Mr. Tsipras put a name on it? It's an artificial collision. He's lost, like I told you, in everything. A debacle! To hide his defeat he uses - because that makes - our elderly fellow men. That's what she does. However, the prosecuting of Mr. Tsipras cannot be punished by Greece. Greece cannot be punished by Mr. Tsipras, who is a common persecutor, and he and his Government must also leave. And the sooner they leave, the better! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So it is not possible for Mr Tsipras to carry the country out once again with his turbulence and his incomprehensible tactics. So we say, do your nominal thing, do what you want, give the help, because these people, even this place, as we have told you, need it, but get up and go, because as long as you sit down, you irreparably harm the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 15th Gymnasium of Peristeri. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I am speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u49	Wait a minute. Mrs Fotou, would you like to put yourself now for the amendments or later?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I prefer to be placed later. However, if the circle of speakers is closed, if you can give me some time before the time of the parliamentary representatives begins, but I will not speak about the amendments now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u51	Good. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u52	What is provided for in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u53	Eight minutes. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I must confess that, as the rapporteur for the River has said, a major political event has overshadowed a bill, which, as I see it, is based on the vast majority of the political parties and on what I understand, both from the river today and from the Central Association. In other words, the six parties from the eight are supporting a bill, which is indeed part of our country's prostitutional situation. It changes, indeed, our country's forward-looking map and, as it appeared in the consultation, where again the vast majority of the institutions were in favour, so I understood from the debate in Parliament all these days that a great change is acceptable. This great change in the pro-institutional map has the following features: a tool is created, the mechanism of social protection, let's say social protection. I say a mechanism so we don't get confused. It is therefore a tool which, for the first time, brings together all the government's databases, from wherever they come, all the seventeen pre-benefiting bodies, all the benefits in the state - one hundred and twenty-five the number - brings them into a new database. This for the first time will allow us - it is already made - to know exactly what is happening to every citizen in this country, so that we can help to claim and receive his benefits in a very simple way. For the first time, in Greece, we'll have this file. When we are told 'how many disabled are they?', we will respond, 'how many allowances does a disabled person receive?', we will answer and we will not let the lenders claim that the disabled receive thousands of benefits and so on. That's the one. Transparency: For the first time after all these years all the files will be together. We've made the file. They're not "flying feathers", they're flying words. They will not be made. It's made. The second record is all institutions providing welfare services. The third file is all programs. No Greek will ignore the fact that this programme from the European Union or from the budget is given to all regions of the country and that it does not take it. He'll find out. How will he know? He'll learn from the two hundred and fifty-four community centers, which will work as well. That is not something we are saying, because we have secured 60 million from the European Union, to serve with 750 people - under SAPA procedures, to end the remarks about the Syrian state - all the municipalities in the country, which are connected to the Community services of the municipalities, which are now obsolete and could not do this work. So the citizen goes to the community center, which is a counterfactual bench with some employees behind, with an electronic platform in front of him on the ground floor of each city hall - so simple - and he asks: 'I'm with this VPM. Tell me: What am I entitled to?' So, the benefit of the beneficiaries and of talking about them, you're not tired of telling them. But the rightful citizen now has his rights. It will not go to SYRIZA, it will not go to the Democratic Reconciliation - I say the ones I see in front of me - to tell him where to claim an allowance. At the same time, when they tell him where his allowances are and what he still deserves, the application - because the system is new technology - makes it either with the employee or his own at home. Because all the evidence is pre-paid. So the client state, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and all the others, ends here. And, therefore, with dignity, the citizen will not have to plead for where he will put his sick father, his old father or his child, with disabilities, mental deprivation and so on. It's all over here. That's the dignity. We, the Left, must give dignity, since you have indeed brought us into this situation that we have no money to give. Yes, it is! So what do we do? We have no money to give, but dignity and transparency to all of us know everything we have to give, and not just that, we know and make it. We know and we can build it, the unbelieving and incompetent and work it very quickly. That will be what the Greek people will live in their daily lives. That's our big difference, that's a big difference. After that, which I told you and which the Greek people will live in everyday life, I have to tell you this: for the first time we are making the social solidarity allowance of 760 million. Anyone who had it more in front of the account than PASOK and New Democracy did not write it in 2015 to do it or did not do it alone, to apologize here and now. We found the 760 million, and we did not cut a single allowance for them, and we are therefore giving the CRL with three axes: not only the 480 euros to the four-member family a month, because we do not regard it as important, services, which I said, and, of course, work. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In two minutes' time, Mr President. 10% of the unemployed will get to work. With what programs? With the community programs. With special programmes designed by Mrs Antonopoulou's bond portfolio, that is to say, we will bring together the businesses - not to imagine that they will not happen or to you that we will not do that - with the unemployed beneficiaries of the CRL and we will find work and we will be subsidising the businesses. It is our obligation, we have signed this, so we will implement it. To conclude, Mrs Christophilopoulou asked me about Articles 7 and 8. I have repeatedly said it and you know it, Mrs Megalo-Economics: Since there is the Memorandum, the eight hundred thousand to staff the two Directorates of the Ministry of Welfare, the Welfare Portfolio - I say, fifty-four people are all in welfare and we are all putting another thirty-nine people in welfare to raise the burden of a new redeployment of the whole of Welfare - these thirty-nine people will come out of the public sector. You all know that, and the New Democracy, etc., that until the end of the memoranda no one can be appointed to the public - you know it from outside and untouched - except for fifteen consultants, who are experts exclusively and appointed, Mrs Christophilopoulou - as you know, you, better than me for all previous years - from the NRP, under the ESDP procedures, are evaluators of the programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u55	You don't write it in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u56	It reads: “Experts”. Let me fill it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u57	Put it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u58	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u59	To supplement legally that they are experts from the NSRP and are appointed according to the procedures of the NSRP. I don't want there to be any shadow. It's a democratic tool. They are democratic policies. Our people will live and see a difference in their everyday life. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that Article 65 of the bill has been applied for roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA, which will be held at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u61	So, what time about, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u62	We'll count around 7:00 an hour. If we do this, it'll be sooner. But you realise that the ministers, the parliamentary representatives and twenty-s seven speakers are involved. So, you know it's not easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u63	Did you say the ending's about 17:00 a.m.?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u64	Approximately 17.00 hours, but it depends. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Shahinides, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Today is the beginning of lessons of democratization in this Chamber. You will be rated by the Greek people. You have to prove that no one in this Chamber is really in possession of ideas and that you really want to legislate for many and for the good of the Greeks. The Golden Dawn, unlike everyone else, has tabled an amendment today under number 815 and number 66, as far as VAT is concerned for all the islands of Greece and not selective for specific islands. It makes it surprising that only some specific islands are selected. SYRIZA is trying to take bait on these islands because of the problem with illegal immigrants. Golden Dawn tabled an amendment signed by the following Members of the Golden Dawn: Ioannis Lagos, Nikolaos Kouzilos, Dimitris Koukoutsis, George Germenis and I. Here, today, you are given the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to admit that you are indeed humanists and that you really want the good of the Greek. Prove us and give us, if you want, lessons of democracy, by accepting the amendment - and not simply by accepting it, but by supporting it together in this Chamber and then, if you like, we continue our democratic lessons. We therefore put forward an amendment on 'Reiteration of a reduced rate of value added tax on the islands'. I would remind you of the explanatory statement: it is well known and generally accepted that the islands face particular problems and difficulties due to their island character. That is why Article 101(4) of the revised Constitution requires that the joint legislator and the administration should take into account the particular circumstances of the islands and mountainous areas, while ensuring that they are developed. A similar reference to the need for support for island and disadvantaged areas is also included in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and especially for island regions in Article 121 of the International Maritime Law. The main problems are as follows: Firstly, the islands, because of their geographical location, are detached from the mainland and therefore from the internal market. Secondly, movements and imports and exports of products are excessively burdened, so that the cost of the products to both the trader and the consumer and consequently the cost of living is much higher than the rest of Greece. Thirdly, problems in the small islands are more problems, because the small population that have not been able to develop economies of scale, which would help their overall development. Fourthly, shipping and air connections are now a brake on their development because of the problem situation in these areas. It is a direct priority to upgrade air and sea accessibility on the islands, as it is of course vital that they are not isolated and have development opportunities. Fifthly, there is a need for the immediate implementation of integrated actions to strengthen infrastructure and improve the functioning of health and education, which are of major problems, but also for supporting employment. Sixthly, it is also noted that the problems faced by the islands have become much greater because of the negative effects the economic crisis has today on every activity. The relevant provisions of the Constitution and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should therefore not be left to the Member States, but should be implemented on a daily basis. Our islands must have equivalent opportunities with the continent in the transport, economic, energy, logistics and medical capacity. In practice, however, there is a lack of transport coverage of our islands with an impact on supply capacity, huge shortages in health structures, medical, nursing staff etc. Memorandum policies in recent years have led to fundamental measures being taken for the island country as well, which is contrary to the economic development of local societies. The increase in VAT to 23% for OSE tickets, airline, restaurants, hotels, catering, food, water, wood, PPC invoices, gas tariffs, agricultural products, theatres, newspapers, magazines is the final blow, not only for tourism but also for the survival of islands. It is worth comparing VAT with other European Union countries and our competitive ones. Italy, France, Austria and Spain have 10% VAT on hotels and catering. Croatia has 13%. Germany has 7% to 19%, while Turkey has 8%. VAT on fuel in Greece is 23%, in Italy 22%, in France and Austria 20%, while Germany has only 19%. In other words, our partners, which impose us VAT of 23%, have much lower VAT in the Eurozone. Moreover, the special arrangements for reduced value added tax for islands are a practice that applies to all countries of the European Union, in order to reduce the disparities and the problems that exist. The third memorandum therefore abolished the reduced rate of VAT on the islands, despite the Government's declarations that this was a red line. In accordance with Article 52(3) of L.4389/2016, therefore, urgent provisions for the implementation of the budgetary objectives and structural reforms agreement and other provisions, as amended by paragraph 3 of Subsection D2 of paragraph (d) of Article 2 of L.4336/2015. Fourth, paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of Article 21 of Law 2859/2000 on reductions in VAT rates shall be phased out as from 1 October 2015 in the first group of islands, from 1 June 2016 to the second group of islands and from 1 January 2017 to the other islands. Thus, for the islands of Thira, Mykonos, Naxos, Paros, Rhodes, Skiathos from 1 January 2015 and for the islands of Syros, Thassos, Andros, Tinos, Karpathos, Milos, Skyros, Alonissos, Kes, Antiparos and Sifnos since 1 June 2016, the reduced rates of Article 21 of the Code of Added Value Tax under Law 2859/2000 apply and the VAT rates applicable to the rest of the country apply. Furthermore, for the islands of the Prefectures of Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Dodecanese, Cyclades and the islands of the Aegean Sea Thassos and Samothraki, the Northern Sporades and Skyros, which provided for VAT rates reduced by 30%, which were abolished as from 1 June 2017 pursuant to the last third phase of increasing the rates of value added tax, in the framework of a Memorandum of Understanding on the equalisation of VAT rates in the islands with those in force in the rest of Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] According to the recent decree of the Prime Minister, the planned increase from 1 January 2017 to the islands above is suspended because they have been particularly affected due to illegal immigration flows. The common place is that in total the abolition of the reduced rates did not have any positive effect on our national economy. On the contrary, the competitiveness of the islands has been affected, any development perspective has been undermined and the already deserved island economies have deteriorated. The proposed provision, therefore, also under the relevant provisions of the Constitution, as well as the conditions of operation of the European Union and in return for the particular problems and difficulties encountered and due to their island character, abolishes, in respect of all islands, introduced by the provisions, first indent, point (d) of paragraph 1 of Article 1 of L.4334/2015, second indent (c) of subparagraph D2 of Article 2 of L.4336/2015 and third paragraph of Article 52 of L.4389/2016, repealing the reduced rates of VAT on islands and subsequently increasing them and assimilating them to those in force in the rest of Greece. They shall revert from the publication of this Law and without retroactive effect the original arrangements for reduced rates of VAT on the islands, as provided for in paragraphs 4, 5, 6 of Article 21 of Law 2859/2000. Our amendment to the draft law, therefore, of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, says: they are abolished by the publication of this law and without retroactive force, such as paragraph (d) of Article 1(1), such as paragraph 3 of Subsection D2 of Article 52. As you can see, we, because we are genuinely interested in the Greek citizen, tabled an amendment which would abolish the increase in VAT on the islands and all have to have the same VAT on our islands. Here's a splendid field of glory! Vote, support the Golden Dawn amendment, to show us that you are indeed not struggling, neither in ideology nor in the fact that you really want to offer something to the Greek people. You'll have to accept it. It's imposed. After all, you are the ones talking about democratisation. Golden Dawn is doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too. It will also apply today what has been agreed, that three Members will speak and that a parliamentary representative or a Minister will intervene. So we're moving towards the speakers from the MPs. Mr Metarakis is the first to follow Mrs Vranza and then Mr Vorides. Please, Mr Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras' story is not, of course, a success story, it is not even a true story, as Mr Tsakalotos said the other day. It's a failed (= failed) story. After the theatre in Nisros, we had the theatre in Thessaloniki yesterday, and today we have the theatre of the roll call for - who? - The majority. It is a transcript of a government which has lost control on all fronts, on the economy, on the negotiation, on immigration, on national issues, on a government which is co-responsible for the Zourari declarations, statements which should have led to immediate dismissal, a statement of insult to our islanders, a government of co-responsibility for the Cironi declarations, which separates our national symbol of public and private law, a parliamentary majority of co-responsibility for the Friday declarations and for our national symbol and for co-existence with the extreme right. It is proof of a government which, with today's amendment, is trying to compare the social dividend of the Samara Government to the turbulence of the Tsipras Government, a government that cannot govern, a government that is led to false whims that divide our society. What you have done as an opposition, trying to divide the Greek people, you are continuing it today as a government, on a subject that we all agreed on and we have shown our social sensitivity in practice. But I would remind you that the social dividend of the Samara government, firstly, was given under an agreement and in agreement with the programme, secondly, in a year when the Greek economy had returned to positive growth, thirdly, at a time when we were reducing tax burdens for all citizens, not a few days after we voted for a budget with billions of billions, not a few days after Mr Juliarakis stood up in the Chamber and informed us of EUR 4.5 billion new measures in 2019. On the one hand, you celebrate what you are trying to bring, on the other, you lead the Greek people to impoverishment with the new measures you bring, having led the Greek economy back and in 2015 and in 2016 to the recession, having lost 20 billion euros of national wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, "the insurance has been closed" said the former Minister, Mr Katrugalos. The current Minister said so at the Ministry's delivery-receipt ceremony. We see, however, that the insurance is still open and, above all, with the creation of Mr Katrugalos, the personal difference, you have exposed to the risk of cutting a major part of the income of Greek pensioners. Reading today's bill in the articles on insurance, three are the main conclusions: Firstly, you are not ready for the Single Social Security Agency. It must work on January 1st. Today, fifteen days ago, you come with an emergency bill, where the forty-two articles change the provisions of the Katorugalos law. Two-thirds of the bill today is changing, a few weeks, a few months after Mr Katrugalos' bill, demonstrating how correct the New Democracy's position was in May, which we disagreed with the single fund and we had proposed to create three self-employed funds for employees, for self-employed people and for farmers. You, to impress, voted for EVA and now you are being proved unable to implement your own law. You are also changing the regulatory instrument of the insurance and benefits regulation, which will be done - it says - by a ministerial decision instead of a presidential decree, because it is - it says - easier, because you do not have time, as is the right legislative decree. You also do not even set a deadline for its adoption. You had to put a deadline, even long but realistic, for unification to proceed smoothly. Because your workers have been denounced that for the last seven months you have been doing only exercises on paper and you have excluded workers, who have the knowledge, from all consultation. The second conclusion is that you are not finally moving towards substantial integration of funds, because the EBRD is just a sum of its parts. This is not a reform, ladies and gentlemen. The Undersecretary said the day before yesterday that no labels or paints in the buildings will change. I am very pleased to report that each of the participating entities will have its own staff department and financial management department within the ECA. So you do not build a modern, flexible new service and we will not achieve the economies of scale. The GLC only speaks of 61,000 euros a month of profit from this single entity. The third conclusion is that, as in all the bills brought by the SYRIZA government, you plan to create new structures. Do you, for example, anticipate an unlimited number of special-purpose units - what constitutes a specific purpose? - without any budget, no responsibilities or staffing. Of course, there are, as always, many examples of dubiousness: overlapping responsibilities and organic units that have a different name at different points in the bill. You also bring some improvements, such as the provision for a transitional period from 1 July in the method of calculating the contributions of the NAT and clarifications for the calculation of our single seafarers. Of course, we all know that these are semimeters. They give only a little breath to the NAT and the sailors. They are not an integrated approach to the acute problems, including maritime insurance, which is the main pillar of the country's development. Ladies and gentlemen, the government eventually redistributes poverty and misery and Mr Katrugalos' insurance is also a stimulus for work and a stimulus for saving and a stimulus for insurance. And after the natural migration of the Greeks we also have insurance migration to other countries, to other markets. I referred to Nishro before. The Prime Minister used our islands as a setting to give his performance and, instead of giving concrete concrete solutions to the acute problems of our islanders, he presented us with general plans. Mr. Tsipras forgot that he himself in his letter to the institutions in June 2015, it is on page 3 that he proposed abolishing the reduced VAT rate on the islands, a measure already applied to a large number of islands and will apply definitively to all islands, because, as he confirmed from Maximos the day before yesterday, VAT will be abolished on all islands after this short-lived extension, which is the result of the united reaction of all the islands that forced you to retreat. However, these islanders are asking you for a permanent solution to the issue of VAT. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. I conclude with the New Democracy's proposal to exit the crisis, as expressed by our President Kyriakos Mitsotakis: Firstly, we need to change the policy mix, by degressing the tax rates for all, and not just for entrepreneurs, as you falsely distort ours. Secondly, a rapid restoration of the liquidity of the banking system is needed to support the small and medium-sized enterprises with a resolution of the acute problem of red loans. Finally, we need reforms everywhere: in the state, in justice, in administration, in order to have a country that is modern and friendly to investors, to workers, to a country that produces wealth. And that wealth, ladies and gentlemen, must be distributed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too. Ms. Brandza, SYRIZA Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a few days after the budget was voted, a budget with a positive budgetary and development mark for our country, we are debating today another important draft law aimed at restructuring the social welfare system. It is extremely important at this juncture for the country to modernise and shield the social benefits allocation mechanism to the beneficiaries. When 45% of retired people today receive a pension of less than 665 euros, i.e. within the limits of poverty, while over four million Greeks face the risk of poverty and social exclusion, we have to house the social welfare mechanisms. As was correctly laid down by the Minister responsible, the state takes the necessary tools for the first time to demolish the regime of pluralism and evil, which in the past decades has eroded and undermined customer relations and has smashed valuable resources. It is essentially the first time in decades, which has been attempting to create a single framework, which will provide for equal rules and simple, transparent procedures for all citizens. Therefore, the bet on our Government, which I think is clearly reflected in the draft legislation under consideration, is to fight chronic weaknesses of a social care system, which has for decades been distinguished by fragmentation, overlapping of the responsibilities of many different directorates and bodies, as well as the total lack of coordination and evaluation. These weaknesses have been accumulated for decades and have shaped a state of pluralism, which costs the state dearly and is simultaneously ineffective and burdensome for citizens, without uniform and systematic supervision. And that is precisely what favours clientele relations and corruption. With this draft law we have the establishment of an effective national mechanism for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of social inclusion and social cohesion policies. This is a mechanism which will allow for the first time in Greece, in all public services, in the municipalities, regions and ministries, to have a clear picture of the needs and what they need to do at the level of welfare policy and social care. However, in order to function effectively and for the benefit of the citizens the mechanism is extremely critical to operate in practice, both the regional observatory of social inclusion and the social services of the thirteen regions, as well as the local social services and community centres. In particular, the community centres, which will be the first points of contact with our fellow citizens, will be addressed by citizens with their problems and requests and will be informed of the rights and opportunities to be integrated into programmes, should, Minister, be directed directly and of course not to stick to endless and impeccable personnel selection procedures. An important objective of the bill is rationalisation of welfare policy and channelling through simple, non- bureaucratic procedures of pre-school benefits to those in real need. That is why I consider it very important to introduce a comprehensive and integrated electronic monitoring of allowances. I'm talking about the Single Geographical System. With this system and registries, which will include, we will have an important tool at our disposal to ensure information, transparency, directness, objectivity, planning and good administration and allocation of resources in the area of social protection. Citizens will be able to put their demands and have an immediate response, without being forced to seek willing mediators, in order to provide them, obviously, with services and benefits, which are legally entitled to them. In this way, the administration itself will be effectively supervised and controlled, as will those involved in the relevant procedures for the registration and documentation of requests. On the other hand, it is very important that the prosperous policy should also be accompanied by measures of social integration and social cohesion. This is why the institutional establishment of the National Mechanism will make a decisive contribution, not only to the development and systematic monitoring of measures to modernise social protection, but also to the encouragement of social inclusion. In other words, a mixture of policies is being achieved, which will not only emphasise the benefits of a voluntary nature, but will encourage and enhance the reintegration into the labour market of vulnerable social groups. To this end, I consider it extremely important, in addition to the benefits introduced, which this bill extends to a pan-Hellenic phase through the Social Solidarity Income, that beneficiaries will have automatic access to the public health system, free medicines, and access to social grocery stores through the NRP. However, I consider it even more important that, with this bill, the responsibilities of the Anti-Poverty Directorate include provisions such as cooperation with the competent OAS services to design targeted programmes and to promote 10% of the benefits of integration or reintegration into the labour market through public-benefit schemes and vocational training. In conclusion, what I would like to stress is that this bill comes to give effective and clear solutions to the daily problems of Greek households. It is also doing so, with an absolute awareness of the real needs, of the living conditions and of the dignity of all those vulnerable social groups and our fellow citizens, who require substantial support, practical support, assistance and solidarity. Exactly, having been fully aware of this situation, the Prime Minister announced the granting of exceptional support to pensioners, which we are now being called upon to ratify. I imagine, and I hope that no wing will object. The reactions of lenders and Mr. Shoeble were a little - very expected. What gives rise to an alpine impression is the reactions of Officer Opposition. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of both the draft law under discussion and the amendment to support pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too. Mr Vorides, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. We are, of course, coming back to an extremely critical environment and it is important to consider the kind of government and the ministers, who represent this critical moment in the country: Prime Minister, who calls the Minister of National Defence 'bouli', happy, Minister who says 'it is not important to lose two, three islands, we do well to be, our language to keep them, we will take them again' and another former Minister, who considers that the environment is mature, to open the debate on the fact that there is no problem, let us denouncing the burning of the flag. These are statements by the last weekend in this environment, at this critical time. And what do we have in this Chamber today? Another communal trick of the Prime Minister. That's what he thinks he should do right now. Ladies and gentlemen, it comes to the National Assembly, it comes to Parliament and recommends that a allowance be granted. It lies, of course, that it is the thirteenth pension, that has become clear. He thinks one forgets and can make fun of what one has done to retired people, that they have been cut off by the ESS. He thinks he can make fun of the burden he created from the contributions to the EEA, from the increase in VAT, but says "I will give the allowance" and ask Parliament's approval to give the allowance. And without a single wing having raised a substantial objection, it comes in and says 'I shall vote roll-call'. Yes, sir! But here a question arises: What is being raised today in the Greek Parliament? Should we or should we not give these funds to the low-pensions? Is that the question? Then, I'll tell you, "Why is that all? To give more, if that is the question. Who has any objection to this? Is that the conversation? Is this the case with financial measures? The President-in-Office came to us and said: 'This, do not worry, is an over-performance of revenue'. And we said, do we have to worry? Because every time he tells us that we shouldn't worry, we should finally worry. It's a return on revenue. A first objection was raised, a first reservation. Has the surplus been finalized? Why? If the surplus, which is finalized in March, is not finalised, we will find this issue before us if the figures do not press. So we are asking right now: what is our point again? Yes or no to the pensioners' amounts? Terminal? Answer: Responsible yes. It is, though, isn't it? Because you see that this is not the case now, because, for example, it has been associated with the issue of debt regulation. Can the Prime Minister tell us the whole question then? Yes or not to these amounts, but to lose the debt arrangement? Yes or not to these amounts, but tomorrow morning is equivalent to these amounts, perhaps with increased taxation? Yes or not to these amounts, but at the risk of not completing the evaluation? Is yes clear? Yes or no, no consequences, or is it yes or not with consequences? The Prime Minister came here and assured us that there are no consequences. That's what he told us. He told us that he was in the agreement, that there is no problem, that these issues have been settled, that he has checked the international environment, that we are not going to find it in front of us, that it is the over-performance of revenue. And immediately the reactions created were created. How's the Prime Minister? He is lying to Parliament and the well-known account is taking place again, who is with the lenders and who is not with the lenders? The contract with the lenders, who's done it? The Prime Minister hasn't done it? Counselling with all these institutions, the troika, who's doing it? The government doesn't? Are you doing it, colleagues? Are you SYRIZA's colleagues there? Are you negotiating? You're talking? You know what's going on? Do we know? Who represents the country in this conversation with the lenders, who should we choose with who we are? Are we with the government or the lenders? Isn't the government talking to these bad lenders? Isn't she talking every day? Isn't she negotiating? Isn't she making deals? She didn't agree to 3.5% for the next decade? Did we agree? So, let me understand: does the government not come here to tell us what this is about to ask Parliament? Until yesterday, the Prime Minister told us that there are no asterisks, that it is clear, that there is no problem, we cannot find it in front of us. Will you bring us ten days to "democratize" it? Will you bring us to 15 days equivalent to taxation? You'll tell us: “What can we do? We have given a glorious battle, but do we have another painful compromise before us?" Because we now have experience of the battles you fight. We now have experience of how you deal with things. Our people have experience of where all this leads. So tell us here what the commitments are. The Greek people are not going to come out of Mr. Tsipras' communication program. And to be informed here: do you want us to agree within Parliament on a number of things? Do you agree that the surplus should be at 2%? You agree. And we agree. Now that we've agreed, do you want to go get it? Is it up to us to give you the surplus? We tell you, 2%. Go and do it. Go, negotiate, but come back with a deal. Do you want to agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u72	4.5%?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u73	Don't say that. Don't say it. What growth rate, 4.5%? Don't say it. We've been through a thousand times. Is that the argument again? You went and agreed, you fearless, 3.5% for a decade! For a decade! And the Minister comes here in Parliament and says, "I have not made any agreement"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u74	Don't insist on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u75	But what shouldn't I insist on? Shouldn't I read the paperwork?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u76	You read the documents, as you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u77	What can I read? Don't I read the Eurogroup decision? Does he have many readings? It says that in the Minister's decision, 3.5% is the goal of the surplus in the medium term!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u78	It's not a decision. It's a script. That's what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u79	What script?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u80	Scenario.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u81	Is the Eurogroup decision a scenario?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u82	It's a script. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u83	Look, we have a problem in this country. Decisions are decisions and produce bindingity. Scenarios are in the plays. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The problem is that you go and vote and bind the country and think they are scenarios, which we then come here and live as an alpine reality! Unfortunately, they're not scripts at all! It is the dramatic reality that we live in! So here, in this particular case, did the Prime Minister, once again lying before Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, tell us that these are assured? She didn't tell us she was from the performance? He didn't tell us that there was no problem? Before you chant three, the problem was created. It raises all your own announcements of the great success of the debt, because at the moment the great success has been frozen! We, Mr. Tsipras' communication games, do not participate. It's your responsibility, it's your problems, it's your country's governance. You will not transfer your failures and your inability to Civic Opposition!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u85	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Merope Jufi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u86	Because this matter was raised yesterday and answered, about the government's commitment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u87	How does he take the floor? Does he have a speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u88	Yeah, I'm taking the floor. I'm a parliamentary representative. Can't I do it? Let me clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u89	He's got a speech, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u90	Our parliamentary representative will also answer and we will have a debate!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u91	Is that a speech, then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u92	It's not the speech. It's an answer. I am entitled, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u93	Mr Georgiadis, you know very well that the parliamentary representatives for a very short time can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u94	On this subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u95	Yeah, just for that spot, for one or two minutes. That's it. And anyone can do it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u96	Because that was answered yesterday, I'll answer it again. The government has never accepted any primary surpluses of 3.5% for ten years after the end of the programme. The New Democracy, once again, distorts reality. The document submitted and claims that the country has committed itself is a Commission compliance report that says so, and there are other IMF compliance reports indicating that the first surpluses amounting to 1.5%. These texts are not binding on the Greek Government and are not signed by the Greek Government, which does not accept these assumptions on the surpluses, claiming a viable solution to the debt. Thank you very much for the opportunity you gave me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u99	Because, in fact, yesterday, this opinion was heard, and since the Minister who, having been genuinely expressed by the government, told us that this text brought by Mr Brutsis to the House is not a binding text, because it was not signed by the government, we had at least the requirement by the government, if we wanted to believe it, this morning that we have the text, which was finally signed by the government. To date, however, we do not have such a text. So, for what Mr Vorides said, the government is going to sign and sign with its signature binding the country and internally comes and tells us that what I signed in the context of a scenario - a project, as Mr Vorides said, is true - that is, what we are living in Greece is fantasy and what the government is doing to endure abroad is a hard reality, that the government must finally decide on this: either it will once reconcile itself with reality or it will continue to do so. We, for the time being, want explanation from the government. And we want to explain the following issues: First, when the Prime Minister said that it was the right of Greece and its Government to have the surplus, in the way it decides, was it aware that his Government and himself had signed a binding text for Greece that they could not make available the surplus without prior approval of the lenders? This is very important, Mr President, because, in order to have - and that is self-evident - what I am going to say, but I have to repeat - national dignity, we have to have a trade balance. For the reason that our credibility in the agreements, which we have made, is falling apart today by the Prime Minister and is asking to use the prestige of the Parliament, with the roll-call vote requested by SYRIZA, to equip his inadmissibility and indifference with the prestige of the Hellenic Republic, which the Greek Parliament expresses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u100	But you can finish it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u101	So that won't come from us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u103	But don't go on like this! Mrs. Jufi, you only have the floor for thirty seconds and we're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, my colleague has raised other issues. Apart from the first one, in which he could of course say that as an answer, he added the second topic. As regards the second part to which Mr Javarras referred, which deals with the issue of the day, I would just like to say: When the Commission itself does not denounce Athens, but takes distances from the tactics of the hardships of Berlin and when the Commissioner responsible, Mr Javarra, is coming out and says that the Greek Government has not broken any rule, I would ask: What is your argument to question the right of the elected government but also of all governments, that is, the right of the Greek Parliament, even though it is in commission, to be able to legislate when it fulfils its obligations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u105	We will now give the floor to Mr Megalustakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u107	We cannot go on like this, Mr Javarra! There was a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u108	When new issues are raised, I will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u109	So there won't be any bipartisanism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Katsotis is right. Here you go, Mr. Megalustakas, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every time I go to the Step, I am unfortunately repeating myself. Unfortunately, however, you make the same mistakes. In a bill, which could have had, as it solved problems and issues that had to be resolved for years, a European directive and a need for our society - you are coming and bringing into the third part of the draft legislation, in essence, amendments to the draft law, which you brought about three months ago, a week before it is implemented. And you don't do it, but bad policy. All this is the result of the bad policy, the lack of plan and the curiosity with which you legislate and exercise your government duties. Indeed, this is now dangerous to the country and I will tell you why. I am afraid - although we have heard the Minister commit, we will be here to check it - that there will be additional reinforcement of the SYRIZA State. I hope what you said is true. You know, however, and you know who is running the new structures and agencies that you have set up. And we see what their work has been so far, which is not satisfactory, under no circumstances. Unfortunately, we are in this situation. Poverty in Greece is seen as a given, and that is something that I think is so sad about. Poverty will not be solved. That's how it's arranged. We're not kicking her out of this bill. They are brave political decisions, which must be made, to solve this problem. I remember when I was younger, at this time of Christmas, waiting for my grandparents, who came from Germany. Unfortunately, now the parents have come to wait for their children who have been resented, because they would be poor here. I'm afraid so. And since we are talking about poverty, you need to redefined your policy and correct the political poverty phenomena, which are expressed by some of your officials and, indeed, by you serious officials, who have had serious ministerial positions. It is not meant to say former Minister: 'Let the flag burn be legalised'. It is not meant to say 'private' flag is not a national symbol'. The culmination was what Mr Zouraris said yesterday, who actually insisted. "It's okay to lose some of our islands as well. We'll get them back." Listen to what he said, Deputy Minister of Education! After Mr. Philly's statements that the Pontian genocide was not genocide, another minister comes to tell us, let them take our islands, now that Erdogan is ripe! You don't live in this world! Where exactly do these people live? What reality? What dimension? You're causing people! He's putting his back on, sacrificing because of bad policies, and that's what we're talking about? Is that how you give hope? I'm sorry about the tone of my voice, but that's outrageous. There's a viper of patriotism, isn't there? In fact, Mr. Zuraris insisted. I heard him on a radio show. He was asked by the journalist, closing, if he gets back what he said: “No. Please don't snore.” He thinks it's disgusting when someone asks him to withdraw what he said! And you continue your dangerous policy, with the roll-call vote you are asking for today. What exactly do you want to achieve? Will someone come out and tell us? What do you want to achieve if we vote in favour of the amendment, with which you are right to give some money, to people who need it? Although you should have real income criteria, because perhaps a pensioner who takes 500 euros should have income from rents another six grand! And he needs them? So why don't you introduce income criteria? Can you explain it to someone? What exactly are you going to win? I want someone to answer us specifically because you want our vote in a bill, where everyone has said from the outset that they will vote for it and the majority of the parties have said that it is in favour of the bill and of the amendment. The Prime Minister has said in this House that no problem will arise. The problem arises, and now you want to be covered, as Mr Vorides said. We're not here to cover the mistakes. We're here to show you the right way. For some time now you have been following us, but we are proposing to you a broader-floor government, a government of cooperation, even one consultation. What did you do? You've come, you've made your announcement, you've only taken the political gain, the party profit. And now that you've screwed up, what do you want us to do? Explain! Can we fix it? Do you think this is correcting? No serious Member can refuse to give money to vulnerable groups. But no one can support your policy. Why didn't you come sit down at the table? We've even sent you letters, we've made you infinite invitations to work together for the common good, and you were just ignoring us. Really, I'm expecting a SYRIZA executive to say exactly what he's going to win. We support you. Will you bring the evaluation? Who are you kidding? You? Us? The lenders? Who? But it says Berlin, but Brussels, other than the IMF, but the Prime Minister, other SYRIZA and ANEL MPs. Only seriousness does not give that attitude. And that is what we are asking from the outset, as a Centro Association. We ask for a strong government, with all the voices that will give seriousness, because, if you are not serious, you are not going to win anything under any negotiation. You've felt it in your skin. Failure will be written in your DNA in a while. What are you waiting for? Destroy the country? How will the Greek people hope for a better future? Explain to me, one of you. We, as the Central Association, are here, ready to work effectively, not with you, with all the pro-European parties. As long as you are inclined to put political costs aside and finally, as a goal of the country's recovery, the development of the economy, the arrival of businesses, the fight against unemployment, the fight against bureaucracy, corruption out of the country. So far we have been seeing such phenomena. That's enough! The Greek people are indignant and we're just making it worse in here. And I say 'we', because unfortunately, beside bad policies your own policies, the greens are burning too. We all have to change that together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, I would like the floor to explain a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u114	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u115	I told Mrs Christophilopoulou that I would make a legislative improvement - I have already tabled it - for Article 7 and Article 8. In the phrase ‘with special scientific associates and experts’ the word ‘and’ shall be deleted. So it becomes "with special scientific collaborators - experts" and it clears this. Also, after the word "experts" the words "... up to eight people in one address, up to seven in the next address", that is, the fifteen that I have promised you for both Directorates. And, of course, already within the law, there is the provision of the ESDP. Refers to the 2014 Act, which are the provisions of the NRV. This is also true of Mrs Christophilopoulou and of the Central Association, if there are no suspicions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Minister. Mr Paulakis, Vice-President of the Commission, has the floor to explain a ministerial amendment which he has tabled and which you have in your hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is Amendment No 818/68, signed by the Ministers and Deputy Ministers from the Ministry of Health, Economy, Development and Finance and the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction. This is a series of urgent provisions which need to be legislated before the end of the year, because they concern deadlines and a number of other urgent issues and are the following: Article 1 and Article 2 essentially extends the status currently in existence for the National School of Public Health, as well as the Health and Safety Regions until 1 January 2018, as the process of drafting their agencies had not been completed, due to the well-known delay caused by the presidential decree procedure. Article 3, like Article 4, actually enables contracts to be extended, as until February 2017, the new health procurement law must have been passed, on the basis of our commitment. Until the vote on the bill is completed and the whole procedure, which is required for the new way, is being drafted, we are giving the possibility of extending the existing contracts to hospitals and to the IRS and extending the role of the Committee on Health Procurement so that the system can continue to function. With Article 5, because there are about fifteen governors and deputy hospital governors whose term of office expired or ends recently, we have declared the posts to be covered. They are commanders, who had remained last year in the selection process, which has been and has been from an old age, but which has ended or ends their term of office. In fact, we are enabling until the new selection of commander and deputy commander to remain in their positions so that there is no administrative gap and a problem of malfunctioning the hospitals. With Article 6, we are basically prolonging the operation - this again goes with supplies - of the price observatory to the Ministry of Health, which we created by the law of the parallel programme and which corrects the flaws of the EPH price observatory. We had received that large, coordinated attack by some supply companies, which gave too low prices and blocked the system of the supply of hospitals. Article 8 concerns the possibility of non-paid members being chosen from the board of directors of AEMY, which also has the responsibility of the Santorini Hospital. And also for the Santorini Hospital is Article 9, where by mistake in the law on its establishment he had infiltrated the need for a certificate of good service. Santorini Hospital is a public hospital. The certificate of good functioning is given by its founding law - as for all hospitals - and these paragraphs are effectively deleted from the law. Article 10a and (b) essentially repeats the provision in force by the former NRP - and it will now also apply to the ETUC - that for programmes, supplies, services, projects co-financed by the European Funds, practically the approval of feasibility is granted by the Ministry of Health and does not follow the procedure provided for in respect of other supplies and other projects approved by own resources. And there the check is thorough and there is no need to do the same thing twice. Article 11 corrects an injustice involving certain permanent workers in a public hospital, who may have been administrative, physical therapists, nurses, etc. and who acquired the diploma in medicine, specialized them, and must now be transferred to places in organic, empty, which relate to the specialty they have completed. With the Mobility Act, recently passed, these people were practically excluded from being able to do this. And we are actually correcting this injustice. In other words, they can be transferred and then fall under the regime, which concerns doctors and other health professionals. With Article 12, we solve and cover a great wound that we have received from the past. That is, about twenty-two or twenty-three hospitals and sanitary districts throughout Greece owes money from overtime, nights, exceptional to other hospital workers, as well as the Kilkis Hospital for newspapers. And that's why this was happening? Because then - I am talking about the years 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, which concerns a hospital - there was reduced funding from the state budget for on-calls, nights and exceptions. So, what did many hospitals do in 2012 and 2013? They've been leaving unpaid for the last one or a half months. In fact, now with the very large increase, which has been made this year through funding and the EEAS, hospitals have cash resources, have own resources and with this provision, we are giving them the opportunity to use these cash resources, which come from their own resources and not from the state budget, to pay for all this unpaid work, which amounts to about EUR 6.7 million. It is also about the Kilkis Hospital, where since the mistake of last year the former commander, not only, did he not pay the newspapers - because this is the only case involving mainly on-calls - but it needed 200,000 to pay for them. He had the 100,000 on the basis of the first programming, he turned the 100,000 back and could not use the funding of the EEA. Now there is the possibility and, in fact, with this arrangement, we are closing down all the 'loans' that we inherited from the previous government, in relation to unpaid work, either the daily work of the doctors or the unpaid work of nights, overtime and exceptionally the rest of the health workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u119	Here you go, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u120	The amendment, which the Minister has just developed, has not even been posted on the page of this House. He spoke of four, five, ten articles, signatories obviously. Mr President, was it not possible for this amendment to come to our knowledge, even in the committee, so that we could discuss it? How do you expect the parties to place themselves? I'm leaving Mr. Polakis' free scars. We're used to him. I'm up against it. It doesn't make any sense right now. The point is the point. Mr President, if we want to be serious in this House, even in an urgent bill, the Minister himself should have come to the committee to explain to us the plan, if he hadn't been able to do so, the legislative process. If he wanted to. Not last minute. These are not serious things, of course, from a very'serious' and dangerous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u121	First of all, I was informed he was uploaded to the site.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u122	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u123	Do you have anything to add? But for a little while, Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u124	We have no intention of hiding anything, especially when the amendment is very good, and it concerns necessary articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u125	Why didn't he come to the committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u126	I heard you, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. You did the show. That's enough. I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u127	The show is yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u128	It's always yours. "Share all the time"! The reason why the amendment has come urgently is that all these provisions were incorporated into the bill of mental health, which was certain, until very recently, would be voted on before the House closed down for Christmas holidays. However, because, due to the burden of the parliamentary work that exists, it will be tabled, but these provisions will not be passed, because they must be carried out before 31 December, which is why we took these articles out of the body of the bill, we made the amendment and brought it, so that it can be voted on and implemented in the context of the urgent time-limits that exist. The rest of it, the free scarf and the show, I leave it to characterize Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u129	We proceed with Mr Steerios, Member of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the rule of the Government's Social Solidarity Income, there is another attempt to deceive and deceive workers and, more generally, to deceive our people, which very well knows how to do and has done so repeatedly over the last two years. Why do we say that? With this bill, which is prerequisites for the third memorandum, which you have all voted together - not to forget it - and the mechanisms that you are creating, you are aiming to ensure that the restriction is strictly respected, but also to reduce any benefits in cash, items and services in popular layers, which are or are likely to be incorporated, on your own always criteria, into poverty and also extreme poverty. The cost of the Social Income of Solidarity you intend to cover it from the recycling of the privileged benefits, but which are curtailed, but also from resources from the state budget, which come from the surpluses of our Greek people. The third memorandum, which you have all voted on - I say it again - leads to a drastic reduction or dismantling of family, prosperous and SME benefits. In particular, a cut of EUR 1 billion per year of State aid to social welfare is foreseen. That's for granted. According to the quartet, the government in the year should have completed the restructuring of all benefits in order to cut 0.5% of GDP. That's what's gonna do with the notorious mechanism you're legislating about. He'll make a correction of all the benefits. Moreover, the World Bank, which has a central role in the restructuring of the pre-innovation system in our country, has delivered to the leadership of the Ministry of Labour a list of the benefits being restructured. Towards, therefore, over a hundred subsidized benefits, but benefits, paid in cash or in kind to insured or unemployed, such as heating allowance, which the SYRIZA - ANEL government has reduced by 50%. The same applies to subsidising camps for the unemployed and other benefits - allowances, for which workers' contributions to the insurance funds have been paid. The Government, in application of the third Memorandum and in this draft law, is preparing changes in the welfare sector, including the review of the social welfare system and the replacement of the minimum guaranteed income with the CRL. In this sense, moreover, the OECD report, which says that there is an excessive number of beneficiaries of benefits in Greece and states that the payment of benefits and disability pensions should depend on the poverty threshold, labour capacity and assets, with a view, from 1% of GDP expenditure, to go to 0.3% or 0.4%. In other words, it says the OECD - and you apply faithfully, because you are too good students and we recognise it - that one of the LEIs, who is capable of any work, cannot receive a disability pension or a disability allowance, as if the state were ensuring a permanent job for the disabled or in the years of suffering, or as if the ability to work could, today in particular, meet its needs for shelter, medicines, which are increased, food, heating, travel etc. After all, the disabled, the benefits get them, to cover exactly these first needs, arising from their disability or illness. So, what's the result? Cut off from the poor who still have a small income, making them poorer, to give out of these crumbs to the impoverished, through the CRL. This role will, moreover, be played by the mechanism you are promoting with the bill and will be the tool for the exercise of the anti-grassroots policy of the government, which reproduces and permanentizes poverty, more and more of our people. So this measure of the CRL, which is really, without shame, being promoted by the government as a guarantee against poverty and social exclusion, presupposes the toweling of welfare expenditure by EUR 900 million. The beginning of this year, with the abolition of the ESRB from 1-6-2016, grabbing from the low pensioners EUR 168 million and until 2019 they will be removed from the low pensioners EUR 2.4 billion. The CRL, for which you are proud, like the Members who speak here, amounts to the astronomical sum of EUR 200 for a four-member family. This is the limit to meeting the needs of the'minimum decent living' as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. We will call 'Syrian logic', but absolutely capitalist logic of decent living, with 200 euros a month for a four-member family. What about this thing? Does either of you live, not for a month, but for two days to 200 euros? So how do you give EUR 200 to a four-member family? You are talking, however, about the reasons that hundreds of thousands of people are in impoverishment and millions in poverty or poverty. The only thing for sure, however, is that it's not their choice. The policy, which you are faithfully serving all of you, is dictated by the defence of the sacred and loyal interests of the capitalist economy, is that which leads our people to poverty. And to make "oil", the system and disintegrate it into the consciousness of the world, throw it over there a crumb, you call it Social Income of Solidarity, and you expect it to say and thank you. On the one hand, hang him with the rope and the time he goes to drown you put a squirrel on his legs, but he stays hanged on your dependants too. In poverty, millions of workers today drive your policy, with the abolition of collective labour agreements and the legitimisation of flexible forms of employment, which means that the majority of workers work with individual labour contracts, with rotating jobs, with wages down and from this unacceptable EUR 586 per month, up to EUR 100 per month. In the negotiations, which you are now doing with the troika, a new massacre is being prepared on the remaining working rights. You're talking about "subject" wages. What's that? Moreover, what can we say about the unemployed, who, from over a million and a half million dollars, only receive 10% of the EUR 360. Aren't they poor? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Do you really want to alleviate the poverty that the system you serve gives birth to? We tell you to do so today and we will tell you how, because with the measures you are taking, even in the Monday's presence, our people will not see it. Do what we'll tell you now. Bring to plenary and vote on the proposal for a law of over five hundred trade unions, which restores state collective labour contracts, abolishes all elastic forms, restores the basic salary to EUR 451, covers the losses of previous years. You are voting in favour of the amendment tabled by our group for a universal reinstatement of the thirteenth and thirteenth pensions and leave the mockery to the pensioners with the allowance of EUR 300, which you are giving them, by a letter from the Prime Minister, you have called it the thirteenth pension. Rehabilitate pensions, which you have cut together fourteen times all of you and the current government and the previous one, by reducing them up to 50%. Keep the ESS, don't cut it. Do not proceed to cuts in the pre-primary and disability benefits. It's a crime! Raise them. Upgrade the unemployment benefit and be granted to everyone for as long as unemployment lasts. You're going to ask us a question: are these happening today? It's not realistic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u131	Complete your thoughts, Mr Colleague. You realize we've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u132	I shall conclude, Mr President, immediately. So I repeat, will you all tell us now: are these happening today? It's not realistic. Because for you realism in 2016 with so much productivity, with so much wealth you produce, it is to have impoverished and poor. The rich, that is, the ones that produce wealth. This is the great contradiction between the capitalist organization of the economy and, therefore, since these are not done, because the capitalist economy and its profitability are not allowed to do so, you have baptized with a Syrian rhetoric - and without a trace of shame, I say again - as a minimum of decent living - in the bill, this is what 200 euros are meant for a four-member family. And with this bill you get a vote of confidence from the capital, the European Union, the IMF, because you prove - and we recognize that to you, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - too capable, better than the previous ones, to pass anti-grass bills and, at the same time, to manipulate the conscience of our people, by putting them on a left ribbon and by saying that they are for his own good. But the workers, our people certainly haven't said their last word yet. Power is in his hands. He showed it to a large part on December 8 with the workers' strike with our seafarers. Today, pensioners will be on their way to demand, not just the allowance that the government has given them, but what you stole them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u133	I would ask colleagues to be in their time, because as you know, the roll-call vote will take place at the end of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u134	What time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u135	To make a calculation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u136	I'm trying to make a calculation, but I can't do it. For now, as far as I can count, about five. I'm saying this so we know what's going on with us. But what I'm saying is personal calculation. Things can go better or worse, it can be 16.30' or 19.30'. It depends on the situation. To know the data, we have eighteen other, nineteen speakers and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u137	And we have secondary periods, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u138	Three seconds and a number of parliamentary representatives, all at the same time eight minutes apart from those who will have second thoughts and, of course, the Minister at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of "Kefal Glyfada", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st PASAL Glyfada. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let the students know they're following a legislative process. A bill has been tabled by the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. We're on the second day of conversation. Then there will be a vote and a state law. Next is the speaker, MP of SYRIZA, Ioannis Theocratic for eight minutes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Labour's amendment on the infamous one-off financial support, since we now have a roll-call vote, which is why we have the statement by the Staff Officer that he will declare 'at present' and I wonder why. Let us ask together, Mr Ministers and ladies and gentlemen. We have an excess, an surplus in the 2016 budget and the 2015 summer agreement, which all the parties to the House voted with L.4336/2015, clearly provides for the government's right to have part of this surplus before it closes the year, where it deems it to be. It is something in which our institutions, our lenders, cannot stumble. So the government is choosing to make 617 million of this, which has left it with trouble, with the struggle of the government and the flaw of the Greek people, to make it available to one of the most vulnerable social groups. It's the back of the middle class. But to say this, for the first time, the rich layers have been taxed. For the first time, we saw big businessmen paying at the threat of prosecution. For the first time, we have seen that the Borgians lists are being checked in substance and in depth, things that have not been done in the past. That's what goes like news, but they're leaving, because we're working on refining the concussion, about the millions of trivial things. But to remind the world: the rich paid and part of the surplus is from the big businessmen and people who had never paid. On the other hand, it is also the effort that has been made to reduce expenditure, which is a worthwhile and commendable effort in every ministry. What can I say? Rent, cut to waste? And we have this surplus and we decide that thing. How can you say no? And we have many European officials, Schultz, President of the European Parliament, we have Moscovisi who support this choice and this decision, and the world has not broken. We have waited and waited, that is, self-evidently, for national unity to be so important, that we would also have an almost unanimous decision from the Greek Parliament, which would support us in negotiating with the institutions, because - I repeat - it is something that does not conflict with the agreement. And all these last three days individually each fell in love with each other: who disagrees with supporting the low-pensionist, who is on the line of poverty? Who disagrees with supporting, with a small allowance now, - do we not say they will become rich - from this surplus of the budget? Who argues that people who have a hard time paying their bills, who can cut their electricity, who can cut their water? Who disagrees, people who have to deal with shopping, make savings in their daily shopping, back up? Who disagrees with supporting people who support many more, because the shocking - not, of course, funny - of pensioners and low pensioners is that they also support other people. Whole families are waiting to celebrate, now Christmas, from a pension of 600 and 700 euros and will you say no, gentlemen of Officer Opposition? Do these families not even rely in this way in the interests of holidays? They're people who support whole families on them. I will accept that this is a distortion. It's a temporary distortion that we inherited, so we received it. It doesn't make sense for families to rely on the retired person. Families rely on the worker. But, in the exceptional circumstances we live, that's where we've arrived. It must be these people who have been sacrificing them all these years to support the country and to go through the crisis, even now, to support them. So we did not expect the New Democracy to disagree. But we were wrong. We had to wait for it. They're the ones who cut pensions and wages 11 times. Let's remember. That is why they will now say 'the present', namely 'no'. Because they don't respect them at all and never respect them. They have the Greek people, the pensioners, the employees - and the private sector and everyone - as citizens. We say white, it's the subjects' fault. We say black, it's the subjects' fault. Then, when they cut off pensions, they said they took a lot, and they didn't deserve it, and they were both “we were eating it together” and “we were eating it together.” Justifications then. And now, they're starting to say a number of excuses, that you're gonna ruin the negotiation, where you're going without knowing, etc. So what Shoeble says. But this undermines the national unity and an effort, which is national, to close the second assessment. A few days ago, Mr. Mitsotakis, the Chief of the New Democracy, said, "Yes, we want the second assessment to be closed". Uh, how will it close when you do not show unity on a key thing that the 2015 agreement provides for? So this unity is being undermined, which we must show to something essential. Why are you doing this? There's no excuse. You are joining the toughest lines of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. On the one hand, there are already serious, remarkable and reliable voices in the European Union and in the international fora, which are in agreement with this movement of the government, and on the other hand, we have the hardest lines of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, which are against the national effort. And you're joining them? Is that possible? Is it possible to miss this opportunity, to show a unity, even for pensioners, and when the agreement provides for it? There is no excuse in the Qualified Opposition to decide to keep this post. I would, however, like, by addressing the government and the Minister, who is present, but also those who are listening to us, to insist on something a little. We are doing the roll-call vote and the negotiation is getting worse, i.e. we are going to go where we have to do this. The government's doing well for everything I said. However, while we have said to all tons and to the public fora in our country that the sum is irreversible and indeed some people have said tax-free, I do not see the amendment anticipating the incompatibility. Warm request: This should come as a legislative improvement next hour. I said this in private to the main ministers. Perhaps because a number of Ministers sign up, because the co-legislative ministers are many, the delay is due to the co-responsibility. Get a piece of legislation now. The Ministerial Decision, which says will be adopted, does not cover us. Normally, he can't predict it if he's not authorised. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The irresponsible has to be foreseen now, with this law. I insist on that. Because if you look at the aid Samaras had given to the commissioners, there was this problem. I say this as a bad precedent and stress it because I have experience in this, Mr Ministers and those who are listening to us. First, it's aid, it's not pension. So it's not inconsistent with the Code of Civil Procedure. Secondly, what some people say - because I spoke to several people and made many phone calls these days to convince some responsible - that it is inappropriate to EUR 1.250 is wrong. That's a myth. It's not inconsistent with 1,250 euros. It's up to 1,000 euros. From EUR 1,002 onwards, the euro is confiscated. We'll find it in front of us. We are making so much effort, we are raising this issue so high - and we are doing well - but we need to have a legislative improvement, which provides for the irresponsible, as we have pledged to be, and tax-free.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u140	Good. Please finish right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u141	Otherwise, the families I mentioned, Mr President - and I am closing with this - at the beginning, who are now waiting for it to be done and how to make the holidays instead of taking EUR 300, instead of taking 500 euros, will get 250 euros and will end up complaining. This must come - I say with all the tone - as a legislative improvement to ensure that this effort by the government is complete, otherwise it will be devastated and will not achieve the objective we are here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Theophile. The speaker of SYRIZA, George Cassa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the actual debate and the amendments of the bill. Yesterday, I spoke about the bill, and indeed, I think it is a great effort that has been made by this government to deal with the whole issue, which for at least forty years - after the reintegration I would like to say - had not been legislated. The reason for this whole customer system, which could not work if they were clearing our allowances and who, how and what our fellow people and fellow citizens deserve. I didn't get a reply as to why for so many years this bill didn't come. It's understandable, of course. Today, I will only speak of the amendment, which was tabled and relates to the one-off allowance in a million six hundred thousand pensioners, who are under 800 euros. The sixty-seven million, ladies and gentlemen, are revenue-sharing. It is from where many predicted, opposition and media, that in 2016 we will not catch the target for our revenues, that the cutter will work, and all these evils that would happen. Unfortunately for them, and fortunately for the world, we've caught the revenues and had a little over-performance. It has been shown that in practice we have caught tax-hunters, those who have not paid all these years, and so we have these 617 million, where it is an surplus, which we can make available. This excess, some outside and out of the country, question that the government can give it to a vulnerable category of our fellow citizens. This question cannot pass through and be accepted. We've lost a lot in this country. But we cannot risk our fellow citizens and we do not have the right to help them, which is a human right and we do not lose it while we are human beings. On the one hand, there should be islands to treat refugees and immigrants and to be proud of us and on the other, not to be given the right to alleviate them, even as far as possible, that is to say, not to increase their VAT. I think none of us can accept that. In my Prefecture in Evros, we have an island, Samothraki, which has three thousand inhabitants. By depriving these three thousand people of their VAT, who all know what they're going to do, we're not going to hurt anything. As they say in my special homeland, 'the ox doesn't look at the pin'. Here is what Mr Moskovis also said: 'In my eyes the terms of the Eurogroup agreement have not changed from the measures decided by the Government of Mr Tsipras'. I make the statement on the Minutes of this House. [[At this point, the honourable Member, George Caisa, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Those who vote'residents' or do not vote 'yes' in this amendment whose interests do they serve? The hirers? The retired? No, of course not. We think that a portion of Europeans, of Siomple and of the lenders. I believe that all Members will vote for this amendment in the roll-call vote that follows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Caisa, SYRIZA. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Javarras has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, until yesterday we knew from the official prime minister's lips that the country is entitled to any surplus resulting from the measures taken, in the context of the agreement with the partners, to have it as it wishes. It is characteristic that the Prime Minister's statement in Nisserro is a statement and we, too, felt that we have the right to monitor this path of protecting our fellow citizens vulnerable to poverty by providing this allowance, the one-off allowance, which you have now seen as not the tenth pension that you promised, but this is a allowance given as long as it allows us to do so by the agreement we have made. It should also be added to this that yesterday there was another presumption that this is the result of the surplus, i.e. the surplus that arises if we deduct the costs from the revenues generated by the State. And this morning - let us start with the second - the elements of the first eleven months were published, and that is where we have seen that there is a viciously over-performance of revenue, but at the same time also a vicious under-performance of expenditure. Because it can reach 7.5 billion what is called an excess and results from over-performance - very beautiful word - to hide exactly what is going on. It was also found that the public's overdue obligations towards entrepreneurs, farmers, against those who are waiting for VAT to return because they are export businesses and against those workers, the producers of the primary sector of the economy, who also expect VAT to return to grow, has reached close to 7 billion. There is an increase of 63% of unpaid debts due. And here, then, the question arises: Really, can you talk about this surplus, when at least a given view expressed by the SYRIZA by the mouth of Mr Vitsa then, which was in the opposition and criticised the surplus of the New Democracy, the Samara and Venizelos government, saying at the time that it is not 3.5 billion dollars the surplus, but is one billion less, because this 1 billion dollars of outstanding debts were then called an internal deficit? So this surplus should be accounted for, or better counted, an internal deficit, which is obvious and you hide it. It is this story of the truth and the transparency you serve. Of course, not only have dozens and hundreds and thousands of businesses been troubled, but they are driven to poverty by people who are mainly producers in the primary sector. I have had the opportunity to address Mr Pitsilis, the Secretary-General responsible for the administration of the 'independent' - in an introductory capacity I shall now put it - the Public Income Authority. And there I wanted to come as a Member in contact with him to tell him what complaints are constantly coming to my office from farmers and from entrepreneurs, to whom not only a return, but also a set-aside. So there I heard - and I convey it to this Chamber - that the Secretary-General does not speak with politicians. Obviously, it only speaks with the Government, although on the basis of the provision of Article 3 of Law No4389, which established the General Secretariat for Public Revenue as an independent authority, it is foreseen that this General Secretariat is not subject to any hierarchical control and administrative supervision by any governmental body. On the contrary, it is controlled and supervised by the Parliament. So, for Mr Pitsili, they are political persons, with whom the Members want nothing to do and, of course, they are loved by the members of the government, who have obviously forced them to delay, to have this kind of delay in fulfilling, to pay off government debts to farmers and entrepreneurs. This is an institutional scandal and, of course, in the next few days, I will ask the House's Committee on Institutions and Transparency to invite Mr Pitsili at least to see who should be accountable to. But there is another issue that was noted yesterday. We have had the opportunity to note and point out in this Chamber that no one can oppose the provision of positive discrimination to people vulnerable to poverty, since, of course, even at the last moment, the government, in view of the Christmas holidays, decided to financially support a number of our fellow people, who are retired and despite the fact that, in homeless, unemployed, in a series of far more vulnerable than poverty - those who live, that is, in extreme poverty - citizens do not show the same sensitivity. But the worst is that, on the basis of this legislation you bring, Minister, - I told you yesterday - you are asking the House to build a national mechanism for protecting society against poverty. Combating poverty you are asking, you are not asking for protection of poverty. And poverty, as I have explained yesterday, is not being fought with tips on the poor, but it is being fought if you institutionally organise their access to work, their access to a number of other situations, of which this poverty will, in fact, cease as a treaty of their daily existence. A much more serious subject you will allow me to raise for two minutes, Mr President. But what does not have a precedent in the history of this Chamber is that, while the Prime Minister assures us that this is the case, yesterday we heard other things from the European Union, and indeed from the Eurogroup, from the ESS, from institutions, that are also expressing the institutions with which we have open issues in the context of the second evaluation, but above all the states which have borrowed us, because that is what some have to understand in comparison with Mr Moscovisi, whose view is respected, but it is Commissioner and the Commission. But what the European Union is and still remains is a union of states and those states represented through the Eurogroup yesterday has told us that there is agreement in particular where the Prime Minister of the country and Mr Tsakalotos have undertaken in the event of surpluses not to make available any sums of any for the purposes of social policy without their prior assent. This raises the question of whether we are talking about a national course in terms of consistency with what we have agreed - as the Prime Minister, in Latin, said earlier - 'pacta sunt servanda', that is, 'the agreements must be respected' - or we are now talking about an inappropriate one, which is sound from yesterday. That's what matters to us, and that's what matters. Because it did not exist in the definition of any issue of roll-call voting. After all, it would also be absurd and comic, the majority, which has the power to pass this provision, to want today, in order to see what the attitude and the opposition stand are, to test our positions with this vote. So our positions are clear and we are telling you: we will protect democracy and Parliament, and we will not allow the Prime Minister to use any decision of this top democratic institution, which is Parliament, in order to empower with prestige and seriousness this deficit of prestige and the seriousness of the way in which it has dealt with these issues. And we tell you that, because precisely what this space should be of interest here is the prestige and credibility of the Hellenic Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u146	Please complete your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u147	This is what we are serving here and for the sake of it we should not allow this to happen to any Prime Minister in the country, who is in our confidence. That is why I said yesterday, Minister, that the government is hosting this Chamber. Why, I repeat, because you do not realize that this is not a government, it is a parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u148	Do you feel the owners, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u149	The government is based elsewhere and your presence here is the point that you are subject to parliamentary scrutiny and you are proposing to the House the vote on bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u150	Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u151	I say this because so far none of those who represent the government has explained to us whether there is indeed a commitment from the country, which the Prime Minister himself has signed, on the basis of which he is obliged to obtain prior consent from the institutions for the disposal of any amount arising from any surplus of public revenue management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Mr. Antony Gregos, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. I'll talk from here. A Memorandum speaker from SYRIZA and a Memorandum of Parliamentary Parliamentary Representative were preceded and a Memorandum MEP from New Democracy will also speak after me. I would like to make a few comments. SYRIZA's rapporteur said that the money for the allowance to the pensioners has been entered in the budget. But you have forgotten, as we have repeatedly said, that you should include the budget loan. And if you're having trouble with your bosses, do a referendum, since you're so democrats. The inhabitants of the islands of the North Aegean and, in general, the islands are not at risk of economic decline by increasing VAT. Their lives and physical integrity are now at stake, and we see this every day. You are constantly talking about the refugee crisis and you are taking action. At last, close the border! This is the concept of borders, and at least that is what you can apply it directly to Evros. In addition, fill our islands with an army. Make a referendum too, since as I said so democrats, to see whether the Greek people want illegal immigrants here or not. The amendment, with a general number of 810 and a special 61, states: "Refusals and immigrants are allowed to be transported with passenger vehicles belonging to TA I and II in terms of accommodation structures or wherever necessary, following a decision by the mayor or regional authority concerned". Gentlemen, these vehicles, as you know, are paid by the Greek people, by citizens. They pay for the purchase, for the maintenance, and for the fuel. You cannot always put a whole state mechanism in the service of poachers. Of course, the problems of transferring pupils should be solved immediately and legally. You are still fighting today - for the eyes of the world, of course - for the votes, and your policies are exactly the same. You've voted for them. You have destroyed the Greek people and their vote no longer can you buy it. You implement the same policies with the same catastrophic results. This afternoon, retired people get down here. Apparently, they're not coming on a trip. So since you are so democrats - I will keep saying this - go out and chat with them, see what they have to say to you. There is also a need, of course, for pensioners, multitude and third parties and the unemployed and, indeed, for immediate action. You seem to have great surpluses in both nerve and lies. We have heard a great deal from the Minister, very much 'we will' hear and remind other times of these 'will'. But we heard something really worth laughing. The Minister spoke of democratic tools and democratic policies. Such a democracy, enjoy it! And to prove once again that you are not democrats, we expect to see what you will do with the amendment tabled by the Golden Dawn concerning the islands. That is the amendment here. In conclusion, I would like to say that some guys like Mr. Chironi and Mr. Zurari have to collect them a little, because they are dangerous and cause popular anger. And if Mr. Zouraris comes here to the House and tell us which islands he doesn't mind the Turks conquering them and going to these islands to tell the inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u154	Mr Adonis Georgiadis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, before I say anything else I mention as an example of how populism and humble political interests may seriously harm homeland, I will tell you a news about the press. A short time ago, ladies and gentlemen, the prosecutor proposed a full discharge of all accused persons for the so-called Batopedi Monastery scandal, because it proved that there was no illegal act and no damage to the public. This was done an hour ago. Do you know what happened in this House and in this country for the Batoped? Do you know how much mud the New Democracy and the then government of Kostas Karamanlis accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u156	Did you see how independent justice is?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u157	And I say this as an example to understand that if all we care about in this Parliament is the narrow-minded party interest of each of them, eventually the country will always be back, because that period has contributed to the destabilisation of the then government and to the acceleration of the tragic developments for the country and the Greek people. So this mud campaign was paid by the Greek people. Secondly, before I speak on today's bill, it is this: the first issue now in the German media is not the involvement of the Eurogroup. The first issue today in the German media - and I am sure Chancellor will put it to the Prime Minister tomorrow - is the failure of Greece to keep the Afghan who strangled and raped this girl in Germany, a man arrested by the Greek Police for an attempted murder, had condemned Greek justice for attempted murder, and you SYRIZA MPs came with the Act of Friday and allowed him to go and kill the girl.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u158	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u159	Be ashamed of you for voting on it and seeing how you sleep at night, for you did this thing with your vote!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u160	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u161	And we told you on that day in Parliament that you who vote to come out of prison, without any control, will take the blame on you for what these people will do by going out. And now, Mr. Mada, you will tell me to be ashamed, see what German newspapers write about the Law of Friday and the responsibilities of Greece in your own actions!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u162	Have you let Christ go like this, I love God, and then the Afghan hurt you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u163	And now we're going to today. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I have heard the previous colleague, and I have heard you say, ‘ Who are you with? With lenders?’. Listen, don't get upset. I hear often, Minister - and I have my favourite Mr Polakis there, and I will close with him - a little SCAI plays with Mrs Fotio, who is asking 'we' fraudsters'. Have you heard that? "We are deceivers?", wonders Mrs Fotio. So let's see if you're cheating. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, when you Parliamentary Representatives of SYRIZA - I don't know what you're doing and I don't want to hurt you - sign a contract...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u164	What do you mean, Mr. Georgiadis? What are you telling us? I don't understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u165	I'll ask you now. But you're not letting me talk. When you sign a contract, sign it to keep it or sign it to violate it? Because the one who violates a written agreement, in the commonly spoken language is called a crook. So we say in our interpersonal relationships someone who signs a contract and I intend to violate it. Let's see what the memorandum you signed in June 2016 is written. I doubt a SYRIZA MEP from those who yell underneath has read it. And I don't know if you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u166	The ridiculousness goes beyond the line, Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u167	I challenge any member of the SYRIZA who wants, to go up after my speech, to read the memorandum signed by Tsipras and to explain to us whether Tsipras is a fraud or not. So what's he signed? I say it so that I don't waste time: In agreement with the Institutes. I repeat: In agreement with the Institutes. What does the written agreement you signed say? That, of course, when the primary surplus is certified in April, when this certification considers the surplus to be permanent and not short-term, then, in agreement with the institutions, with the troika, you can go share a 30% for social policy. Question: Was the agreement signed on behalf of Mr Tsipras respected? Oh, no. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't be like that. It obviously wasn't observed. First question: is it not a fraud, a person who does not respect his written agreement? Second question: When he came to Parliament and assured us on Saturday that it is an inalienable right for Greece to share it as he wishes, did he not know what he had signed in June? And because of the fact that he knew it, and yet he did it, what did he do? The involvement in the evaluation, which we hope will go ahead, is that the evaluation depends on the country's survival, as you said. So Mr. Tsipras came and deliberately fooled the House, violated the agreement with the foreigners, presented Greece not to comply with its written agreement. And why did he do this? Because he wanted to give money to poor people? Is that why? No, but why did he have polls of 16% and 17%. So as Mr. Tsipras always has to choose between his own interests and the interests of the country, he always chooses his own interests. And ignoring the danger...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u168	Do you speak as a representative of foreigners?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u169	I am in favour of dignity. You, Mr. Papadopoulos, personally, when you write an agreement, do you respect it or not? Or are you a crook like the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u170	We're keeping it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u171	Oh, keep it. Well, if you keep it, you must vote against it now. Otherwise you don't keep it, and you're on this floor too. And don't move your head at all. I told you yesterday about this 'caramella' for foreigners. Listen, when a SYRIZA MP comes out and answers to Yiannis - with a n-Varoufakis - not me, Baroufakis, who made him a Minister of Finance - who told you "soibbles" and said that Tsipras was the "usable idiot of Soible", when he dares a SYRIZA MEP to comment on Yani - with a n-Varofakis on what he revealed, then you will again talk about who they are representatives of the lenders, because according to your Minister, the representatives of the lenders in this Parliament are you who played his game. And I'm very afraid you're playing it again today for an entrance. Why? Why are you undermining the agreement, affecting the country's right to vote, bringing Greece into a position of weakness and you will come tomorrow to bring far worse measures to Parliament. I close, so I don't abuse time with Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u172	I'm waiting for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Polakis, listen, then. I'm waiting for you too, since you know you're my weakness! You're going very well to health. You made a nice speech the other day, and you said everything was fine in health, it's all perfect! Some unreasonable trade unionists built the health ministry door. Evidently doomed! People don't know what good things are going to health! Well, listen. Before the summer referendum, Mr. Paul Paulakis, this Creitiscarus, had written a tweet and said: "The "no" is for the levedes and the "yes" are for the chickens." Paul Paulakis, Minister! 'No' is for the people. Cretan boy! 'And 'yes' is for chickens'. After four days of "no" "yes" Tsipras and made him a minister, he said a nice "yes" Paulis! A relic chicken, that's the way it is! [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Why do I bring it back? You rewrited tweet today. One would expect you to have at least the intelligence to understand that after you got so humiliated in the summer of 2015, you will not repeat it in December 2016. To see you now, if Tsipras finds them again with the lenders and brings the measures here, if you will resign, Mr. Polakis, or if you will keep your chair as you did in July 2015! Because I had their Cretans for levees, not chickens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u175	You have the floor for a very short time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u176	In both personal and political terms. And look me deep in the eyes! First, there are talk on the Internet that you find Karamanlis - the one you defended today - you swear Samaras, you swear all of New Democracy as traitors. And in this New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u178	Wait, wait, wait. You've got a lot personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u179	I'm here. I'm waiting for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u180	And in this New Democracy that you've caught worse than we have, you went and became Minister, from being registered with the others, as a reward, as well as your then leader, Mr. Karatzaferis, of the services you have provided, and your hostage and your leader then, for the German submarines and the speeches you have made at the time. Because that's how you made the transfer. That's how you did it! And we don't look like each other. We didn't bow down to this life! We didn't lick where we spit, just like you did to be the minister of a government you swore to, to be the Memorandum of the Memorandum and the Most Faithful Dog of Shoeble than he has in his yard! One of the prisoners. Second, you sleep at night and all New Democracy when two and a half thousand doctors fired in a week, broke down the primary school and pushed the whole world to private health at that time? Are you sleeping? You sleep at night or you sleep tonight, if I tell you that from the uninsured people your policy has made on non-insurance coverage and who dared to seek health services from hospitals over the years you have ruled and dismantled the country, those who dared to ask for emergency! - has the Treasury confirmed EUR 30 million in debt to the hospitals? You created these debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u181	No name!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u182	You created these debts. You, your predecessor and the next of you have created these debts. And you have the nerve to go out and shake your finger and say if we sleep at night, that we have implemented a law that all the civilized states of Europe have passed in relation to prisons? Are you sleeping at night, when you toweled, along with your predecessors and your next, public health and care spending, and pushed the whole world on the private initiative, without touching a hair off all the system that created overpricing, corruption and smuggling in the health field, and with the calculations we make - and are moderate - of the 340 billion debt that it had reached, is the black health money? How much do you have to take part in these 84 billion and dare you step out and shake your finger?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u183	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u184	Let him go, don't cut him to the best!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u185	Wait a minute. Because where they owed us, they're taking the ox. When you did all this, did you see this trade union bureaucracy of twenty-fifths - why isn't it more - to come and build your own door? No, because you didn't mind them, because you were together, because you were company, because with your IACC people and the rest of you shared rugs, moves, shots, licks, hospital budgets, "there are our hospital budgets, put more" to others "they're not ours, put them below" and you had them in this game, and you and the predecessor and the next one, and that's why they didn't build you. But we cut them off, and that's why they're attacking us. Twenty-five are with the camels and mules together! That's how many they are. They're not more. Real workers support us, because if they didn't support us, we wouldn't stand it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And because you're a great liar, and besides English, you know ancient Greek, you know French?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u186	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u187	Well done. If you know French, he read Commissioner Moscovisi's statement, which says that Greece is not breaking any deal. You're doing a fucking thing that's from the surplus. It's from the revenue overturn. All the black disaster you bring six months, "we go bankrupt, they break the revenue, we do, we show, we get in". Ten nomatos have asked different professional charges and everyone, but everyone tells me - doctors and plaques and engineers and coolers and whatever you want - that they all have 30% increase in turnover this year. That's the reality. [[Laughers - protests from the New Democracy ward]] Laugh, laugh! That's how the revenue comes out, you think. Do you know how they get out otherwise? They come out with the fact that, in August, the Ministry of Health, because we persuaded people to put their backs on, gave a month's worth of EUR 950 million over a period of time. That's the ones that came into the market. So far, these EUR 950 million alone of the hospitals and EUR 460 million of the EEA, which have also been provided, have given birth to two others, and to every obvious circle they make, the state receives from there and from there the twenty-seven million tourists are the rise and from the increase in industrial production in September is growth and from the decline in unemployment. This year, the Ministry of Labour for the first time will give this amount to the EEAS. That is why we also supported public hospitals with EUR 400 million. This is where the dilemma enters as follows. The Greek Government has the potential, because it is not a colony. We signed a compromise so the chaos won't come. We kept the deal. It's not a colony to ask for permission, because it's from the revenue overturn. We have been able to give the thirteenth pension and abolish the increase in VAT on the islands. Who are you and the rest of your company with? Who are you with? Are you with the Greek Government in this or are you with Shoeble?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u188	What are you asking now? Georgiadis said it with Siomple.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u189	What are you going to vote today, "yes" or "no"? Leave the rotting around - around. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Know one thing: I sleep very quiet at night, so quiet, because I don't get it. But you, too, are being put on the CEDEFOP. You're also being relied on by the wings you were sending you and your wife for whom to appoint.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, you must give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u191	It's the whole system that you guys got into. It is a system that you fed on with at least EUR 6 million - it has reached EUR 20 million - advertising expenditure time to savage you from morning to night and, while you were destroying, to say that you are the ministers of the galaxy. Other priests have come and other papers are basing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u192	Close, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u193	Take the ham and place. Who are you with? With the Greek Government or Shoeble? It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u194	Good. On personal strict - we will have no further dialogue - you have the floor, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u195	You have allowed it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u196	Everything was personal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u197	First of all, Minister,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u198	You can sue me again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u199	...you will now bring the blankets here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u200	You can sue me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, protect me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u202	Minister, let Mr. Georgiadis also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u203	You sue me again, you and the one sitting behind you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u204	You're saying that to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u205	Yeah, for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u206	Now I'll answer you, you scoundrel, you piece of shit! Now wait and you'll hear! Mr President, give me the floor for a personal answer. He'll hear it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u207	What are you gonna tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u208	Minister, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u209	Mr. President, Mr. Paulakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Georgiadis, let me speak a little while and I'll give you the floor right away. Minister, I gave you the floor and you spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u211	Mr. President, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Georgiadis, what do you say "forgive me"? Let me finish my proposal. I will give the floor to you and to Mr Salma, because he mentioned his name and I would ask that we close here. We have the bill, which we are discussing. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Polakis, you will now bring my wife's notes to the House. If you don't bring them, I'll beg the president... I'm gonna sue you, and you're gonna ask for your immunity to be lifted, so you can bring them to court. But you won't be hiding, donkey, behind immunity. Do you understand? Liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u215	Sympathy, cheating, you dare and touch the name of my wife in your mouth!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u216	That's not how it works!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u217	The liar's immunity will be lifted or he'll bring the blankets here! Donkey! That's a scoundrel!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u218	You're going to retract...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u219	You'll bring the papers here, you fake Cretan! I'll rip out your mustaches if you don't bring them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Georgiadis, you're revocational.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, this is my wife's name in his mouth! Him! That subject there!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u222	Rescind! Your pimps elsewhere!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u223	You'll either bring the boxes now, archangel, or they'll be here in Crete! Now get the papers here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u224	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u225	Now listen, Mr President. They're serious. With my honor and my reputation, no one's playing! Nobody! I didn't call you a thief or a crook!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u226	So long you don't insult our honor of asking us what kind of profession we've been doing and what have we done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Georgiadis, you will be revoked. We won't be able to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u228	This guy thinks he can get ugly and hide in the mustache. You're not hiding from me, Paul. There's a lawsuit, and the prosecutor has brought to the House, and he's asking for a special court to be held for you. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u229	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u230	But the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group covers you. Once Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou said here that when she comes for a minister from the prosecutor, you'll be the first to take him to justice. So, let's see you here now! Will you vote for the file Mr. Paulakis has sent here against you to go to court? No, of course not, because Mr. Paulakis is a chicken! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But listen, Paulie! You're going to fall sometime. You say slow, I say quick. And then, look me right in the eye,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u231	What's gonna happen? I'm looking into your eyes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u232	You can't get away with it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u233	Bravo! Bravo! And threats now, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u234	All right, all right. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u235	What are you gonna do to us? Tell us what you're gonna do to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u236	So we said what justice says, sir...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u237	Tell us what you're gonna do to us! What are you gonna do to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u238	He's going to justice, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u239	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u240	We are already at risk in Parliament! Your pimps elsewhere! You, too, welcome! This is your democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Paulakis doesn't remember the trade unionists he mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Georgiadis, will you please finish this, please, so we can close?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u243	They hadn't built the door on me, he said. They had it, then, built the door. The trade unions had built the door in the Drocaete. And do you know who was behind the bricks when they built it? Mr. Blonde, who is now Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u244	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u245	Now you're doing everything you don't know. But when I was the Minister, and they wouldn't let me into the hospitals and make episodes and build the doors, they were your best friends, Mr. Polakis. Now all of a sudden you don't like them, because they dare and criticize you for messing with health!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u246	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u247	As far as the budgets are concerned, he had the courage to say that we cut the budgets. The budgets are now lower than they were before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u248	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u249	They're lower now than they were before. Why don't you raise the budgets, Polakis, Cretan? We said why, let's not talk about it again. He's a relic chicken!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u250	I raised them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u251	Yeah, all right, all right! So he's coming here to the House, he's lying about everything, and he's smuggling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Georgiadis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u253	Bring the papers. Get the blankets now. Get the ties here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u254	Now I'll tell you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u255	No, "I'll tell you"! You'll get the blankets. Otherwise in the courts. Get the papers here to see them. Liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Georgiades! Mr. Salmas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u258	Please, Minister, then. We're closing. Mr. Salmas will be speaking for a minute on staff. You have the floor, Mr. Salma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u259	Listen, Mr. President. Mr. Paulakis is indicted by me by lawsuits. And instead of having the bravery to go to court to face me for a slander that I blame him, he went to the committee that judges immunity and begged that his immunity should not be lifted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u260	Are you sure he begged?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u261	Let's go down. Describing data. Take him out of immunity. It'll be lifted. Take him out of immunity. Read the minutes of the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u262	So let us know first if he's begging. You're all lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u263	Secondly, Mr Polakis, for my term of office I challenge you to say what you want. I did not, however, go as Chairman of the Sfakeon Brotherhood to ask the pharmaceutical workers and the health suppliers to give me money to buy an ambulance to take it to Sfakia, not to the municipality, to take it, driving it, to get a mayor to Sfakia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u264	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u265	You! I never defined Georgakopoulos as vice president, who, when St. Andreas was demolished by the earthquake in 2008, was paid for four months on-call in an intensive unit that was not working, which was closed. And you dare and you have him there. Alert!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Salma, hang up here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u267	The Sfakia, my president, have a thousand men and a socket called Paulakis, who hides every time he slanders. If your words are counted, or I'll put you in jail. I told you. As long as you don't hide behind your immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u269	First let me make an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, you cannot give the floor to the Minister. These things can't be heard in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u272	I'll give you the floor right after the announcement. Give me two minutes. Everybody, calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u273	I'll lock you in jail when your immunity is lifted. I got you ready!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Salma, please! Let's take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u276	I'll give you the floor, Mr. Polakis, in half a minute to calm down. The kids from school who are watching us wait so long patiently. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Kalamata High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are in the process - what you have seen was a sideline - a bill by the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. Now there has been a parentheses between MPs. They're used to this. Don't be surprised. If you have a little patience, you will also follow the legislative process then. Mr Minister, before I give you the floor, I would ask that we do not escape - we have already made a major decline - from its main task. I would ask you to be very brief and, if possible, a personal request - not to trigger new convergences.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u277	If we have a personal matter, we will do it again, Mr President. Or you won't give the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u278	Please don't have one. Let's just talk about facts, no faces, because then you'll be right. Minister, for very little time you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, if it is with Siomple or the pensioners, the Greek islands of the eastern Aegean and the Greek Government, I did not get it. Secondly, because I do not throw away air words, I will just say one example, and all the papers will come.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u280	We want the blankets!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u281	Let go of it now! Don't show me your little finger now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u282	The ties!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u283	Just one example. You had, yes or no, an unpaid partner to your press office, a lady who had no qualification for this post and who, in fact, to get her a monthly, sent her to take up a job at CEDEFOP as a field project there with the AIDS sufferers, etc. Did you or didn't you? How was he appointed? Qualified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u284	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u285	Is that what we're dealing with now? Is that it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u286	No, Mr. President. Answer me! Two...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u287	Minister, please! These questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u288	No, Mr President, because he wants answers and my finger's moving!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, as rapporteur, is this our debate in the bill today?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u290	Let's go to the bill now! That's great! I'll give two answers to Mr. Salma. Because flying into the mud in the fan - when you're guilty to the point where it doesn't go - is easy. First of all, as far as the subject you said is concerned, you have been misinformed by your parrots! The ambulance that went to the Municipality of Sfakion is one of the old ambulances that the EKAV of Chania had and is functional. We didn't throw it after the twenty-five ambulances went to Crete. These were part of the ninety that for eight years our predecessors had not found in the misery and the competition was not complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u291	Did you get money from the pharmaceutical manufacturers? Yes or no? Did you go and beg the pharmaceuticals? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u292	Please, Mr. Salma!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u293	That's the ambulance!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u294	Leave the analysis! Yes or no? You're playing anti-capitalist! The left-wing hero took money from the medics!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Salma, please! That's not how it works!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u296	Sit down! I heard you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u297	Minister, go on, but very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u298	Secondly, the complaint Mr Salmas has given me is because, as it seems, the procedure has also been initiated by the EEAS, through a scandalous procedure he has honoured with a closed integrated hospital an act that is done in the hospital at 1,500 euros, and now it is invoiced at 300 euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u299	President, stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u300	Sit where you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u301	Who invoiced? I invoiced, where's Paul's job to invoice?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Salma, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, you will give me the floor. He can say what he wants! It's his job to invoice. It's not mine!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u304	He filed documents for 850,000 euros, won't get them, and he'll be asked behind the EOPYY. That's it! And all the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u305	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u306	You're indicted for what you're saying, you fool!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u307	Why? Because you sued me, am I indicted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u308	You're indicted!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u309	You're indicted because you filed 850 grand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u310	You go hiding for a thousand points!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u311	...when you should have taken no more than 100! The thief is yelling for the housekeeper to leave!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u312	Minister, don't open such a debate!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u313	What do you think, you fool? Idiot! Bunny!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u314	Your transmissions are coming out in the forum!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u315	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u316	That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u317	I'll fix you! Mr President, I want the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u318	No, we can't! There's no way! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, I want the floor for a minute on staff! This gentleman has been mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u320	No, you won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u321	No, Mr President, let me answer for a minute and close. Please! You're so noble!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u322	No, you won't, because then Mr. Paulakis will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u323	There will be tons falling, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u324	We cannot go on like this, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u325	For a minute, and it's over. Really remove it from my speech!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u326	I'll give you thirty seconds for one sentence and nothing else! We've really exceeded all the limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u327	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u328	The vote has been postponed for too many hours after and the programming of colleagues has been overthrown, having been involved in a matter here. And I know what word I'm using! Here, I give you the floor for thirty seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u329	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paulakis referred to this issue in the House for my absence. That's why I sued him for slandering. There is no procedure at all by the EEAS. Mr. Paulakis has lodged no paper, nothing and nothing! Mr. Paulakis is indicted, presented to the committee responsible and said that his immunity should not be lifted! Clear words! I, Mr. Polakis, want to go to court. If there's anything wrong with that, I'll be accountable. Otherwise, you will prove what you are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u330	Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u331	And I shall end, Mr President. I want you to know, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that what Mr Paulakis says has become about Polakis. The responsibility for invoicing the examinations lies with the Minister. In June 2015 until March 2016, Paulakis has the invoicing liability for it, who did nothing and now came to ask for the change! That's all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr. Salma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u333	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u334	No, no! It's over! We can't!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u335	He asked me! Shouldn't I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u336	It's over! It's closed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, for 20 seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u338	No, Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u339	But he asked me! He didn't ask me? Let me take the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u340	Not a second. No fraction of a second! Mrs. Thalerite has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u341	Dear colleagues and colleagues, a little quiet, so I can speak. Thank you. I have taken the floor today to talk, above all, about the amendments. But because I was provoked, I would like to comment on what has been said here in the Chamber. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Georgiadis, I'm sorry, but I can't talk if there's no silence. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u342	Sorry, it's my fault. A little quiet, please, to the room. Mr. Georgiades, please be quiet, so we can hear the speaker. Please! Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u343	Please, Mr Georgiadis, you do not respect your colleagues. Mr. Georgiadis, we must respect our colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Mrs. Welleritis, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u345	I would therefore like to comment on the 'no decent government, the lionizations of this government that go around in prudence and populism'. These were said by the Qualified Opposition. And before I raise a number of questions, I would like to make a proposal from Mr Deusina, which expresses me: 'If anyone calls me populist, because I express the popular interests against this elite, then I have no problem. Faced with the neoliberal policy that despises people, we must, as Sanders said, compare a left populism." So in the face of the disaster, which you claim we have brought, we are really facing... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, I can't talk. Colleagues and colleagues, you don't respect me. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u346	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Not to mention by name, it doesn't, but a little quiet, please. Carry on, Mrs. Therlerite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u347	I'm on it. We will continue to negotiate and fight. They may not all be glorious, but we will fight. And if we need to compromise on this painful compromise, we do not hesitate to come and take measures when a large part of our population is affected by these Memorandum policies. And as much as you are trying today, colleagues and colleagues of the Civilian Retirement Officers, to change the agenda using statements by colleagues, you will not avoid answering whether to vote against the support of the low-retired or to join the most extreme voices in Europe. And here I remind you of Moscovisi's statement, which restores reality and runs counter to the most extreme circles trying to create problems in the negotiation. They have not changed the measures decided by Mr Tsipras' government. And what else did the Commissioner stress? What is essential is the debt relief, which does not conflict with the social cohesion that the Greek people expect. Ladies and gentlemen, this must not be allowed to happen in our country, what is right for each country to use only a small fraction of revenue or surplus - it does not matter - to support groups that are affected and paid daily for policies of austerity and the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to set an example here today and leave a case to the effect that this country is not a colony. And we have to do it today. That is why I really call on the opposition to stand up to the seriousness of this moment and to decide that we can really face surpluses as a country and give them to those who are affected and paid for the crisis. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, we have not come out of nowhere or gone in any time. There have been previous years, there have been previous governments, and you are the ones that cut off the EASA, you have voted in 2014, you have decided on various things in the negotiation, and we have had to make the painful compromise. Let's not forget these. We don't live in space. I would also like to mention, for that is why I have taken the floor today, in three parliamentary amendments concerning renewal agreements: One is the extension of contracts for workers at the Networking and Promotion of Gender Equality Offices, namely the Equality Offices in the CEDEFOP and the EIA, where the EIT is actually coming with an amendment to be introduced as an employer's contractor, because it was before the CEDEFOP and could not have been with the amount provided by funding to pay workers. So this amendment really comes to correct a problem that there was, to pay nine months of retrospectively, unpaid workers. This amendment is, in the same context and philosophy as the minister presented by Mr Skourletis for the renewal of staff contracts in advisory centres on violence against women under the ESDP programmes. Secondly, I would like to talk about the amendment concerning the extension of administrative support for OTAs, which concerns municipalities which have not been able, because of adverse conditions, to organise their services and another municipality is coming for another year to provide them with administrative support. The third amendment is the extension of the merger of FVOs. You are all very well aware of Article 13 of Law No 4071/2012 that it consists of regional NGAA and all legal persons operating, whether as associations or as public limited companies or with other legal form of FVO companies, are compulsorily merged into a regional one. Since the entire procedure for this merger has so far not been completed, the amendment calls for an extension of this deadline of 30-6-2017. Finally, I would also like to refer to the amendment supported by the Minister of State, Mr Skourletis, which is a breath for the local government. This is the possibility for local government agencies to extend the repayment of loans concluded by the Deposit and Loan Fund and intended for their financial reinsurance. That's up to thirty-five years. Also, given the fact that the Deposit and Loan Fund is evolving into a development bank in self-government, this same amendment allows it to grant revenue from its own resources for the preparation of studies and development of local government projects without bureaucratic procedures. We therefore need to help small and island communities, which do not have technical services and can actually be helped through these measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, and I am really finishing, Mr President, give me two minutes, Amendment No 803/55 concerns leases for advisory measures, as I said before, concerning violence against women. What is this amendment? Because the main beneficiary of the project, which finances these advisory centres, is the Centre for Equality Research, comes this amendment and, because he is the main beneficiary, completes it so that they can also enter as counterparties in the relevant lease contract. So, with this they can just operate the centers and get paid by the TBR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mrs. Thalerite. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I made a mention, in fact, of the provisions of the draft ECA law, that is, this new organisation that unites all the funds in one. Mrs Christophilopoulou and I reminded us that our position was that one fund was wrong and that the three funds were the best option. We also recalled that Mr Katrugalos, then Minister for Labour and Social Services, said that the change in the architecture of the insurance EFKA would save EUR 500 million and would not make horizontal cuts. I have demonstrated, using the arguments of the General Accounting Office, that from this draft law, the many articles in the CCA, there is no savings for a single euro. There are new costs and cuts that balance each other and there is no single euro for savings. Mr. Katrugalos was lying. The Undersecretary took the floor after my speech and made no mention. So you lied about the change of architecture and the benefit the country would have allegedly had. You're lying about protecting retired people. Urgent lies. I do not have time to mention them all, but I shall mention some of the cuts that you have voted on and the next few years are starting to implement them. Within 2017, for example, for two million pensioners in September will determine the personal difference, which from 2018 onwards we will see, in the medium or other measures that you will bring, how it will be arranged in time. This means millions of pensioners in their main pension. Their main pension, ladies and gentlemen, you wouldn't hurt the main pensions. You also increased the cost of purchasing fictitious years of insurance from 6.67% to 20%. It's about the public. You did this. And I mention little. It is ten cases of new cuts in the insurance field. And when we talk about retired people, it's not unreasonable to report to the ESS's allowance. In 2017, it will become the great slaughter and in 2018 it will end. This is your social curriculum, ladies and gentlemen of the government and SYRIZA - ANEL. I also mentioned that in Articles 61, 62, 63 EOPY, for the sake of IKA and EKA, is taken away because where they owed him the ox. For committees studying how much debt to the EEAS is, 5% cut on these debts, for the sake of IKA and EKA, 5% on IKA and 2% on the EKA. Of the EPPY's money. Where you owe him, you get him. Yesterday I made these reports which make up the reasons for our refusal to vote for these regulations. And, of course, within the environment discussed by Mrs Fotou's initiative, how is it possible not to comment on the major issues that make up the political problem, which the Greek Parliament has today and yesterday: the Prime Minister after the Eurogroup should have resigned for political reasons. At the Eurogroup, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to say this today, but we will also have many opportunities as long as time passes and the governance of the SYRIZA - ANEL - continues - he first accepted what we request, of course, but he has accepted all the terms of the International Monetary Fund. And it did not succeed, ladies and gentlemen, in exploiting the conflict between the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission, but it accepted what both of us wanted. Global defeat at all levels. And I said, when we discussed the budget, that accepting the terms of the International Monetary Fund creates a new one - after May with the cutter and the excess of 100 years of public property delivery - a third memorandum of plus. Now it also agrees with the second version, the second version, the second phase of the third memorandum of plus, which will be everything you know, that the International Monetary Fund is required to participate, i.e. labour, tax reduction and so on. You also agreed to have a medium-term that is not in 2018, but in the years to come, which your ministers themselves recognise that the cost of measures reaches 4 billion for each year. You accepted - verbatim this results from the Eurogroup decision - that, after 2018, we will have 3.5% surpluses. And the European Commission's report of 9 June proves what you have received other documents, which will be submitted as long as time goes on, will prove that. Obviously this will also be the case in the medium term, when you table it in the light of the second assessment. Listen: I did not ask the Minister of Finance what Mr Diaselblum means when he says, 'Three years will be over 3.5%, five will be, seven will be?' I don't care about that. I asked him: 'To 2019 we're going for 3.5% surplus?' No answer. He's supposed to be negotiating. These, as a summary of the Eurogroup's defeat, were reason to say, 'I can't do it, I give up'. You ought to do it now, but you had to do it first. You didn't. At the same time, you have brought a budget - we have said that - which literally evaporates the poorest with 2.5 billion of indirect taxes. We've been through this line, word for word for five days. In this way, as a compensation policy - someone else sees it as electoral, I do not see it - you said, 'I will give something'. "To burn you, my Yannis, to lure you oil." We answered you that week. The demagogy continues. Demagogy, pollening and lying continue. This measure, this one-off aid - we criticised the political methodology of the government, but we said that we were voting on it, we have told you that since last week - you are now trying to make it an internal issue, because within the defeat and the consequences of defeat and the shame of your officials, you must find a compensation, something to say. This is demonstrated by your handling and by what we hear from the European Commission. I would point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition is not making the negotiation so that he knows exactly what is going on. Negotiations are made by the government. And she knows limits and she has responsibilities. For no governmental choice, we will have no responsibility for its consequences. However, as you are dealing with the matter again, it turns out that the problem, ladies and gentlemen, of the first six-month rule of SYRIZA - ANEL - the primary problem - was not Mr Varoufakis, was Mr Tsipras. This is the orchestra of irresponsibility against the country. He's the one who smashed Greek women and Greeks. He is the one who did what he did and did on a basis and a criterion: his own personal, political interest and the interest of his party at the expense of the Greeks at the expense of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u350	Complete your thoughts slowly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u351	Excuse me, Mr. President. You gave the floor to a Minister for a personal matter, and he spoke nine minutes. I'm a parliamentary representative. It's a special meeting and you'll allow me one more minute. It's not going through what you're trying to do about internal fronts. There is rich, richer experience. They don't count for election and politics. You are in the context and on the way that you have drawn for your defeat and this route no one can shake it down, however unprecedentedly the perpetrator it is. Because that is the Prime Minister, first of all a destiny chaser who has no precedent in the 20th and 21st century. It's in 19th. And I have said a thousand times that his model, the model of which it is, is Deligiannis. His mistakes, however, will pay for it on his own. And, indeed, his mistakes will pay interest. And for any trouble he creates in the country, he is responsible himself and anyone who supports him. Ladies and gentlemen, for the country there is a solution: for Mr Tsipras to resign at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u352	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-five students and students as well as two educational attendants from the 1st Kalamata High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let the students know they're following a legislative process. We are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Labour, Social Security. We are in the debate of the bill and a few hours later we will vote to make it a state law. Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u353	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if one were to notice from another country what is happening with regard to the pensioners' allowance, he might even find them fun. But because we live in our homeland, I think everyone seems sad. And I'm explaining. Give the pensioners the allowance? Of course it is. That is, I think, more than clear. But I would like to add three "but"s and I would like every fellow Member in the Chamber to think whether I am exaggerating what I am saying. The government which has decided to pay the EUR 617 million allowance and which is squeezing about it - has even baptised it for the thirteenth time - has only taken care last year of the increase in the contributions of pensioners to the EEA to take them out of pockets of EUR 710 million. That is, only from this measure takes EUR 100 million more than pensioners in relation to their allowance. Secondly, the Prime Minister when Mr. Samaras did the same as the social dividend in 2014, in statements from Yannina he considered the relevant move to be shameful, shameful and the "false". When was he right? Then when he condemned the New Democracy or now that he does the same thing? He can't be right twice. Thirdly, it turns out that this whole move was not only without consultation with the creditors, but that - as it now appeared from the official Eurogroup and the ESM statements - there will be adverse consequences for the country. Already, because of this move, the debt measures have been frozen, which you so advertised last week. There will therefore be adverse consequences for the country, obviously for the pensioners who live in the same country. So the conclusion is that the government is not so interested in retired people, but the elections and how it will reduce the extent of its defeat. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, if you were not interested in this, you would have waited two, three months until the details of ELSTAT and EUROSTAT were formalised and made this move with complete security for both the country and pensioners. That is quite clear. I think every good-faithed compatriot understands it. What was that hurry Christmas? What you care about is limiting the extent of your defeat. You think - you still have one illusion - that this will be the way to do it. I come to something very specific, and I want the attention of the ministers. On behalf of the New Democracy, I am presenting you with a very clear proposal. Withdrawal of this amendment. In the next few days and months with the creditors, bring with them a new arrangement and the New Democracy will vote on it. It's a trustworthy placement. We expect you to consult Mr Tsipras, who is in Brussels, with the financial staff, and we expect your answer to be given in the light of the vote. Net bills, good placement. We're waiting for an answer from the government. Meanwhile, the government - it is evident from a series of moves in recent days and not only - is preparing its electoral escape. That's why you've re-entered the referendum dress, like when you did "No", "Yes" in a week. And you find your familiar enemies again. Attack the IMF. Which is a surprise! Except that the IMF - and I tabled the papers here last week in the House - called for measures for 2014 and 2015 to the tune of EUR 3 billion. You who are so leprosy and heroic for 2015 and 2016 brought measures of 6 billion euros. At the same time, you brought twice as many measures as the IMF asked. And if we add the measures of 2017, it is three times the measures. Attack Shoeble. Yes, sir. Another surprise is that. It is only a few days ago that you have come to an agreement with Symble that the country should have a primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP and even in the medium term. These are your lectures, and this is your approach. That's why you have the demographic collapse you've got, because you've become provocative. Every day you become provocative. Of course, what are you doing right now? What are you doing all these days? Incidentally, in Nisvro, the Prime Minister presented, as SYRIZA's intention, the island clause that has been in place for many years in our Constitution. So you do overall political manipulations, which - and I want you to hear, I say good faith - put butter on the bread of every hard politician in northern Europe who wants to kick Greece out of the Eurozone. That's what you're doing. It's not worth two, three percentage points in the elections to play Greece in the dice. And I tell you to think about it, because over SYRIZA and New Democracy there is Greece. You haven't changed for a while. Do not bring more evil into the country near what you have accumulated over the last two years. We therefore have a very clear position. We say 'Yes' to the pensioner's allowance and 'No' to SYRIZA's populism and tranquility. That is why we will be voting 'Paris'. But if you accept our proposal and withdraw the amendment, we are here to discuss it and vote, of course, for pensioners, because we want to support pensioners. We do not want to support, of course, the destiny of SYRIZA that sees him, but primarily harms our country, Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u355	Mr President, I would like to speak. I don't understand. I have a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u356	You have no say, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, I have a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u358	What process?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u359	We need to see what we're going to do. He's making a suggestion. Right now I'm the Minister who recommends this bill and I have to make a position. We need to figure out what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u360	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u361	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u362	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u363	You said two things: the first, to withdraw the amendment, which you will vote on, I imagine, when it comes, namely March. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u364	I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u365	No, that's right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u366	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u367	That's how it's all proposed. Either the amendment is now withdrawn and you will be voted on the new year in March, or you will be voting 'the present' today. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u368	We'll explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u369	Yes or no. He doesn't need much!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u370	It is not ‘yes’ or ‘no’. I'll tell you. Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u371	Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u372	Mrs. Fotou, things are very simple. We said that as the amendment stands...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u373	Understood!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u374	...they create adverse consequences for the country. Already yesterday, they frozen the measures you adverted on the debt last week. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I don't think I'm the most extreme in the room. You could, if you were kind enough, for thirty seconds to listen to me so that it could be fully clarified. As is true of the amendment, and with the reaction of the Eurogroup and the ESM, adverse consequences are created for the country. They froze the measures, the short-term, on the debt that the Prime Minister himself from Stepa of this House advertised. So we say this: you can consult the ESM and the Eurogroup. There are primary surpluses in the country. You're going to prove them through ELSTAT, EUROSTAT, etc....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u375	March.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u376	This whole process will be closed whenever it is to close - in March, in April - and you will have an amendment that will have this allowance - if it comes up and more so, let it be as much as we want - on the New Democracy side, if it is in a safe environment, we will vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u377	Clear. Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u378	Clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u379	In the meantime, we can only clarify our position, which is 'yes', of course, in the support of pensioners, but 'no' to SYRIZA populism. And it's quite clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u380	Yes, Mr. Hatzidakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u381	We get it. Not today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u382	The parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party, Mr Thanasis Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u383	It is important, particularly for the workers and the people and the Greek people, to see on what data and in what context this scene has been set up since yesterday - or even before - of the allegedly great confrontation with the lenders, on the basis of the one aid, because that is what it is all about. It has nothing to do with the third pension, nor much more with the fourteenth. And to make it clear that a third pension means permanent. And it means the same amount, that is, doubling the pension. It's just a help. In what context, then, is this controversy for the Greek people? What do we got? We have a rapid promotion of the third anti-grassroots and worst memorial, which is added to the other two, rapid promotion of all measures - and through the budget - which literally breaks down the popular layers. It's crushing! And that will appear from the end of January. Secondly, we have the implementation of the new insurance law, the looting law, which will have a reduction in pensions from next year and the new fund with a deficit of close to 3 billion. We have first home auctions. Aren't there? And that's not all. The next one is, within the framework of the second evaluation, when and when it appears that it will be implemented. So this controversy, in our view - and we want the workers to listen to us - sets the ground to go through the new measures that are coming. And there are new measures coming. And we challenge everyone again to say here whether or not they're gonna come up with new measures? Let one express a willingness to say 'no' on the basis of the negotiation that is taking place and the second evaluation. So they turn the ground on this side. And secondly, with this allowance - I do not want to describe it - they want the people to be convinced that their sacrifices are taking place. In other words, you get him ten times, you give him a hand and you get a feeling that we're taking measures hard, of course, very hard, but that's what's going on because we're giving him a hand too. We shall vote on the amendment. We don't have any dilemmas like that, and we never had one. Even the slightest measure that can even be temporary relief from giving the people's layers, we will support it. We don't have such questions, we never had one. However, I would also like to ask a few questions: where does it come from? Really, does it come from tax evasion? Just? Is it from wealth taxation? Just? So, it's not from the tax checkout of the workers? You made the account, and you said that 617 million took it from the corruption hit, from the Borgians list, which you say, etc.Huh? Have you made such an account? No, of course not. They're bloody surpluses from the Greek people. And there's what's coming. You've already taken them, in other words, with the new measures, this aid you're giving. Anyway, from what I saw from the evidence, the primary surplus is plus 4 billion. Since you're generous, why don't you give the rest? The remaining four billion to go? Development? Aren't they going there, Mr. Pappa? So who? To those who do not pay once and above, that is, to monopolies, to business groups. So, if you do social policy with the workers' pockets and the rest of the 4 billion, why don't you put these on - even other funds - for workers, for the people's populations, for the unemployed? I'd like to say one more thing. How many casualties? It was 50 billion dollars from the pensions. So I'd say get out. I repeat, I have said so in the budget. Substantial relief doesn't exist. There's a help. Do you want substantial relief? Please accept our amendment, 13th, 14th wage. Isn't there any money? There are. Aren't your partners leaving you? Hey, you've got such partners. You're voting together. In any case, a smoke saying 'national independence' has risen. Well, now you remembered that? National independence is 617 million? The European Union? Aren't you assigned? You're the ones who say it. Everybody says it. Don't they decide? Can you get out of what they decide? Oh, no. Where is independence? Didn't you all sign them? Where's independence? Now the flag's up, we're crashing? But who are you working for now? Literally, what are you clashing with? With a help? This is the big conflict and you are now preparing how many and what measures will you take? As far as the bill and confrontation is concerned, I would say that it is sad and extremely outrageous that both the government and the New Democracy and the other parties are confronted. What's the question? Who is better faced with the phenomenon of poverty, who, in other words, abusing the poor. But who told you these people don't want to work? Who sends them to poverty, unemployment and misery? Isn't that the system you all serve? Is it not the capitalist system that literally crushes them and which presupposes that profits will increase exploitation and increase and poverty? So why are you fighting? This is shameful, shameful for the workers. What are beggars - I say again - waiting for mercy? From what? And most of them -- not to say all of them -- have worked their whole life and built all of what's around. Also, for the other pole, are we ever going to talk about wealth? Because for poverty, you're tired, we'll give charity, we'll do it. Who creates poverty? For those who don't know what they have, to whom you give more, will there be any debate? No, because they serve your policy, no matter what everyone says. It reinforces them. I said the example of the four billion. So the question is who best manages poverty. You also call on the world objectively and with intent or without, to reconcile with this idea, that there will always be this poverty, that poverty is, what to do now, it is so you compromise. I'll say something. Previously the king was slaughtering, and the queen gave candy and made charities for orphans. That is exactly what is happening today. Governments are slaughtering - they are not cutting heads, but slaughtering people's rights - they create poverty and unemployment and then come with crumbs. This is practically the case for the European Union itself. What do you say to the people? That while technology and everything else goes forward, poverty in the European Union - as you say it - is growing every year. Yes or no? So what is the European Union doing? It takes them intolerable wealth, creates objectively poverty and misery - the poor are not just them, moreover, this word is not so peculiar, anyway we swallow it - and then it tells them that 'we will make you a social programme'. I have heard here anthems about the European Union's Social Charter and Mr Javarra's New Democracy - quite reasonable - and the SYRIZA Members. I don't know if the ministers did the same. The Social Charter says: 'The protection of citizens against poverty and social exclusion'. This is the European Union's Social Charter. I read as follows: 'Legal right to employment, education, culture, housing and social life'. That is what the Social Charter of the European Union says. Really, who are you all laughing at? Is that the reality today? They're like the constitutions. What's the civil constitution? 'The right to education', the right to work', the right here, the right there. Does any of this apply? This is the general declaration. It's the mocking for the people. And you are coming and defending today - and it makes sense - and the New Democracy and the other parties with the European Union and SYRIZA sometimes even more Europeanist, this mockery towards the peoples of Europe. I'll say one more thing, because we haven't told the House. Even dealing with poverty through these programmes is actually the subject of speculation from business groups and others. And that's where they come from. From the scratch fly all over the place. I don't just mean the NGOs. I mean business groups that act in this area and say they do social policy. The difference between us and you is radical. We're not half-life. The whole world wants it and it deserves it. He produces wealth, he has to take him into his hands from those who exploit him, he has to manage him, he has to build his economy, build a program, exploit the capabilities of the country. We can't deal with these crumbs. Of course, you can't tell them to die. But the people themselves must not compromise. He has to take his whole life and not half the life you give him. As far as the bill is concerned, we are dealing with both the mechanism and the overall policy on what role it will play, whether or not technically it can help. What's the question here? What are we waiting for, or what are you waiting for? Increase in allowances? And are you and the advisers expecting an increase in the European Union's benefits at all? Do you have such evidence that they will come and increase them or the line is 'cut and more'? So, objectively - we do not raise too much tons or this is the main point of confrontation, but it is and is more serious - since we expect cuts to social benefits, this fresco in the good sense, that is to say, that it will have a full picture, in practice on a cut-off line, so that in some world it can probably cut off some aid that it can get now. That is the general line, and in this general context we are dealing with it, and that is why we are not entering the debate. Are there any proposals? We do not say'socialism'. I wish people could believe it and take authority. We have proposals directly: Reset minimum wage. Where is he? 80% is the OAED allowance. It's 751 euros. He's not a lunatic wage. On the contrary. Poverty is all 751 euros. Maybe that's it. Who's 80% going to the OAED allowance? They get 10%. That's what you all forget to say. And you from New Democracy are cut. Who established all this and applied it and goes further than today's governments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u384	But please complete your proposals, Mr Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u385	I'm done. There is the proposal for a law tabled by five hundred or more trade unions. Why don't you talk to anyone? You can say'reject it'. Why are you all making the dead bug? To leave the government or the party of SYRIZA and say "we reject it, we do not accept it", to leave PASOK, to go out and to tell the workers that "the things you ask is above what the economy can give". While what a rich man eats in a night, which is five working life, we can give it! Well, we do not accept this, and we call on the world to join the JRC, to create a front against the JRC, a front that moves towards overthrowing, aimed at overthrowing, because then only in this direction can it divert some temporary conquests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students of the ERASMUS programme. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are on our way with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Stakoura. Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister and his Government every day increasingly confirm that apart from ideologically and politically unreliable and inspiring, they are occupied by a dangerous gambling mentality in their political behaviour. Instead of serving, they use the country and the citizens. They are being used in order to achieve their political goal, which is no longer their stay in government for as long as they can or the creation of conditions, as they think, so that after their run, they can be maintained as strong players in the political system. Since for years as regional political players and also as Civic Opposition they burned the seeds and found nothing positive in their political positions and actions as rulers of pelagic rule without a system of coordinates. They have completely failed, despite the fact that we as a Qualified Opposition, contrary to what they have done in the past, have not created any problems for them. But the government has proved that only damage is accumulating in the country. In particular, with its signature, the signature of the Government itself in the last Eurogroup agreement, the following were decided: First, the Government accepts that there is and is a financial gap in 2018, which agrees, within the text, to cover with additional austerity measures. Secondly, the Government confirms in the text that fiscal targets will remain high for several years after 2018, as it had agreed since the summer, despite its disapprovals. Thirdly, it commits to achieving these high objectives by implementing structural measures and extending the cut, namely by applying the country's permanent comitology mechanisms. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] And since the government, as I hear in the last few hours and days, has continued to deny reality and hide the truth as regards its commitment to maintaining high primary surpluses for a long time and despite the texts that have been tabled - which it disproves - I shall present another proof of its lies today. The government celebrates the short-term debt measures, which will reduce, as we know, the debt by twenty percentage points of GDP in 2060. Here's the decision. However, this exercise, as you can see, is based on certain assumptions. Therefore, according to this report of the European support mechanism, achieving this objective, namely debt reduction in 2060, is based on the main scenario of the previous May. I am therefore tabling the first document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What, then, is the basic scenario of the previous May and is the second evidence? It is to achieve a primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP by 2028, 3.2% over the next five years and 2.5% of GDP by 2040. If you are celebrating debt regulation, then you are fully accepting all these primary surpluses. I am tabling the basic scenario that you have decided on for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, since you are celebrating debt measures, I repeat, you fully accept the basic scenario.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u388	And yesterday you testified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u389	No, it's another document. You haven't read. I filed this with the ESM. You have confused European Commission with ESM. It's good to study. In fact, it's what you're celebrating. That is why I told you that I tabled a new document. The decision of the ESM, which you celebrate for the 20 percentage points, is based on the basic scenario. Read it, and whoever objects, here we are. So the lies have short feet. And today it is demonstrated once again that the government has no red lines and that the completion of the second assessment is shifting, the government regresses, builds enemies, within and outside the country, to cover its deadlocks. But the truth is not hidden. Whenever the government is supposed to negotiate, the account of the measures goes up and the painful commitments are multiplied. It is even trying to gold the perpetual cutter's pill with a supposedly single donor. Let me remind you, of course, as my fellow Members have done, that in the recent past, on the initiative of the previous government, the Prime Minister, at the time of the Chief of Officerial Representation, described the act as "an act of shame, shame, deeply immoral, act of humiliation of every citizen of that country". In any case, the necessary - I repeat - support for society, particularly the weaker income layers, must be done, but it must be done in terms of truth and not with communication tricks, impasse lionism, political blackmailing and mocking. After imposing measures of EUR 9 billion, which have considerably and permanently reduced the public's available income, the government today gives a small part of this loss and even a one-off one. After imposing the permanent reduction in main and ancillary pensions, the permanent abolition of social benefits, the permanent increase in insurance contributions, is now moving towards the granting of a single sub-multiple aid. And all this at the same time that provokingly ignores those who have a greater need for state support, such as the long-term unemployed, who do not receive any income and assets criteria at all, at the same time as depriving the real economy of the payment stop which it has declared, at the same time that it imposes new taxes, four times higher, in 2017, as much as an additional ENPI, in particular indirect taxes, which particularly affect the weaker income layers, and at the same time, as I said, it commits to additional austerity measures for 2018 and in the coming years, which will bear the available income of all citizens. And today, confronted with dangerous turbulences, opportunistic acrobatics, irresponsible internal populism and political tactics, we are in the same work as spectators. It divides society, seeks extortionist consents to the region in the international living room and at the same time blames the opposition as a "fifth conglomerate". The government, which, without moral suspensions, without ideological coordinates, votes everything, today also throws a disorientated toffee in order to remain in power for a moment more. In this blind course that Mr. Tsipras builds on casino terms and letonian behaviors of the type "my profits, their losses we share", the Prime Minister may not be looking for accomplices. Political change has become a prerequisite. The Greeks can move forward with a plan, based on the truth, our understanding and our cohesion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u390	Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u391	Ladies and gentlemen, I am the clergy in the sense that I represent in the national Parliament a unity of the islands of our country, the Cyclades Prefecture. And as an islander I would like to convey to all sides of the Greek Parliament the wrath, indignation and anger of the islanders. I personally feel deeply offended, like all islanders, about the unacceptable statement of Minister of Government, Mr Pappa, who remains a Minister today. The next day, as the Prime Minister goes to Nisyros and announces measures - an empty shirt of course - for islands. Mr Zouraris made the unacceptable statement, 'E, and what happened to some islands?' And Mr. Zouraris remains Minister today. And children come from schools to the Greek Parliament and attend the meeting and see in Parliament a political representative of the country tell about the islands that unacceptable expression. What do we expect from the Turks? To be better dealt with when they see the Minister of Government so placed? They'll laugh across Turkey. And as far as VAT is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA is now supposed to be cut, look into each other's eyes, let's look a little in the eyes to see what the truth is. I would remind the National Representation that the Greek people, the non-Islander who does not know that, because islanders know that - that the reduced VAT in the Aegean Sea came as a counter-duty - as a compensatory measure by the national ruler Konstantinos Karamanlis when we entered the EEC at the time, in return for an area of the country that does not enjoy public goods, education, health and culture on an equal footing. And then Konstantinos Karamanlis saw and said that this region of the country and due to the east-south dangers would have a special protection. And it was accepted by all of Europe. We kept it as an eye daughter. I have to admit - because I am a fair man - that the previous PASOK government, when and whenever he went to the table by the lenders, defended it. The troika did not dare, the institutions - apologies, it is the modern term - ever put it in the New Democracy, in the previous Antonis Samaras government. Nor was there a case for a government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis ever in a New Democrat government to enter this issue and surrender itself. And you delivered it in a gift pack. You delivered the VAT to the Aegean islands. And what do you say today? You are attacking the New Democracy, you who have done this criminal and unconstitutional action. They're not my words, I'm very careful. They are words of Panos Kammenos, who the next day voted for the abolition of VAT, went to Syros, the capital of the Cyclades Prefecture, and named the crime and unconstitutional what it voted for the previous one. That's who you are. That's called irresponsibility, hypocrisy and theater. This is how the game is played - and I address the Greek people - by SYRIZA, with theatrical performances and hypocrisy. What are you talking about today? Suspension of VAT, - be careful, not abolition and where? For the whole Aegean? No, where VAT was imposed, it will remain, i.e. Cyclades, northern Sporades. And the Prime Minister said about the East Aegean. But the East Aegean is also the Dodecanese. There is now a abolition of VAT. We are now talking about islands which have been deeply affected by SYRIZA's unresolved, unacceptable and anti-national behaviour with the issue of immigrants and refugees. They are deeply engraved and hurt on these islands economically and socially. And you went to enforce the VAT there too. If you really thought so, you should exclude it from the principle of VAT in these areas. Sadly, however, this is hypocrisy. And you're leaving New Democracy today to show that you're defending what you've handed over? I want you to see the size of reducing the purchasing power of the islanders. Let us say this, VAT on the Aegean islands, after 30% reduction of the previous VAT government, had fallen to 9%, due to a special scheme. 9% for the islanders became 24%. In other words, every islander loses 15 points of purchasing power in each market. This has happened in the Aegean Sea of our country, gentlemen of the government. I want to go a little quick to the pension issue, because it is particularly important and it opens the pension fund once again, and it is still timely, unfortunately, because insurance, despite unjust and uncomfortable reductions, as I say many times, is again in the air. Today, I'm going to present you with a numerical element. I want you to hear it, realize it and understand it. And I respond directly to SYRIZA's argument, which hung out, is supposed to be the previous governments for eleven, twelve, thirteen reductions: this is a very big lie. SYRIZA could have invoked it if it abolished the previous reductions and brought its own. Then there would be a comparative order of size. But what did he do? It adopted the entire past and brought 3.1 billion new ones to a level of reductions. The 310 million, which had been put into e-mail Hardouvelis, you doubled it and made it 3.1 billion. And there we could say 'yes, see what's going on', but these could have avoided them. But now listen to the most spectacular aspect: The issue of reductions is a part of a pension policy, which ends in May 2016. What has happened since May 2016? Another insurance scheme is starting to work. If we were theoretically to return and integrate all the current pensioners into the new scheme in the next thirty years, based on this new regime, which is a 25% reduction in every pensioner, every pensioner in the new environment of SYRIZA's insurance is losing four pensions. That's the truth. And there is another reason why SYRIZA does not bring the proportionate study, because it will appear that from 30 billion of the insurance will be lost between 6 and 7 billion. This is the truth in a future view by 2030, until 2040. Four reductions in the main pensions are lost with the new environment of SYRIZA's insurance. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, it simply comes slowly and progressively with the new insurance regime. So I would ask you to be very careful when you talk about reductions. I am now going to the issue, which I consider to be very serious, of the allowance for pensioners. As rapporteur of the New Democracy, in the sense of the speaker yesterday and in the committees, do you remember what the position of the New Democracy was? The New Democracy's position from the start, Mr Pappa, was to vote on it. You heard Mr. Mitsotakis from this step forward, but more than the criticism we made, that you did not vote for the social dividend, what I read and read many speakers, namely what Mr. Tsipras said in Yannina on the social dividend, that we disagreed with the horizontal way in which it is given, which is unfair and should be given under income criteria. He said one more thing: Is it ensured that this will not disturb our relations and the progress of the country and will it be on a safe path? And Mr Tsipras said 'then they are'. Why is New Democracy changing its position today? Does he want to do the bad thing against retired people? Do you have us for reduced liability and reduced sensitivity? Why are we doing this? Because yesterday the following events took place: First, yesterday from this step I tabled the text in which it appears, through the European Commission, that SYRIZA has agreed to primary surpluses of 3.5% for ten years and from there it goes away until 2040. You have drugged the country, you hide this deal. I presented it yesterday and SYRIZA answered how? Non paper, not in a responsible way. The Minister for Finance has not come to deny it here. Second element. Two pillars of Europe, the institutions: ESM and the European Commission. And the government is not officially placed. What happened next? Yesterday, following the presentation of the data, the ESM comes out and says that the debt settlement, 6% of GDP, which Mr Tsipras advertised and which we are all glad to see, no matter what he said, is getting on ice. Then what happened? Mr. Tsipras put a roll-call vote, why? It is clear, a popular communication game of Mr. Tsipras personally, since we were placed to vote on it. So what's Mr. Tsipras doing today? He's playing with the country itself. It throws the country into the dice, as it did in the previous half of 2015. Repeat a malicious procedure that we paid for by 9 billion metres. And listen to a clue, because the comparative evidence is understood by the Greek people. The budget we voted on - we did not vote for it, but the House voted for it - to reach a primary surplus of 1.75%, which is the target in 2017, incorporates measures in total, together with 2,5 billion for 2017, 9 billion, reductions in pensions and tax increases. I repeat, to reach 1.75%, 9 billion meters. Now think, in order to reach 3.5% of what measures are needed, ladies and gentlemen, and put the development line of the country, what do you take for the country and for the Greeks? For all these reasons, we will be placed with 'the present'. Showing our sensitivity...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u392	Sensitivity to the world!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u393	...we change our attitude, we say "yes" to the pensioners' aid, but not to the country at risk!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u394	Who is the country at risk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u395	And Kostis Hatzidakis made a suggestion. Keep this aid, agree with the creditors, bring the agreed one, but do not put the country at risk, do not relive the Baroufakis acrobases once more, so that the Greek people will not pay any more measures...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u396	Who is the country at risk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u397	... so that the pensioner and the unemployed don't lose again. That is the proposal of logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u398	Who are pensioners at risk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u399	Ladies and gentlemen, you must have the dilemma. You should be aware that the Greek people have taught you, understood you and did not "remove". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u400	This is the shirt you're wearing, the blue!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u401	Mr. Nikos Pappas, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Madam President. It is obvious that the New Democracy is in a great deadlock. And it is also obvious that its attitude is the only butter - fortunately a little - on the bread of those who want to hurt Greece. We want to welcome President Olad's statement, which says that there is no risk of negotiating from our own legislative initiatives. We want to welcome the statement by the head of the Socialists in the European Parliament, Mr Pitella, who has launched direct shots against Mr Soible. We want to welcome Mr Moscovisi's statement, who also said that the negotiation from our legislative initiatives and the emergency aid, the 13th pension for pensioners is not at risk. We want to welcome the statement by Mr Sapen, the French Minister of Finance, who said that debt decisions were unconditional and cannot be asked again. So let us wait for developments. We will, of course, be bravely welcome both the attitude of the JRC and the Democratic Integration, parties that are building opposition to our Government in voting for this amendment. We also welcome Mrs Gennamas' statement from Brussels, which she did a little while ago and said that Shoeble's policy is against both Greece and Greek citizens. It is against Europe as well, we would add. You're coming here and you're holding up against us. Why? Because we committed ourselves to surpluses. Are you cutting scripts that are being examined, without any agreement, and these scripts have what number? Three-five percent. You are doing so by signing the agreements of 5%, 6% and 7% for a surplus. Beware, the propaganda for cuts has limits, because there has been a tax measure for which, not just to be in favour, but to have and protest. First of all, of course, for a party like New Democracy, but it has made a protest about the cut in the EKRD when it protested about "Yes" in the referendum. So the Greek people look at them, they know them, they count them. Why does this program work, why does it work? Are you going to say any opinion? Our opinion is that it has low surpluses and that our programme, the parallel one, takes action on social protection. But it turns out from the New Democracy's attitude today that its 'Medite Europe' troops were not 'Medite Europe', it was to stay Europe as it stands. To remain a Europe of austerity. Well, this battle will be lost by the austerity forces in Europe, because the Greek Government exercises active diplomacy and effectiveness. Also, gentlemen, we will wish you Merry Christmas and good luck from now on when you go to your districts to explain to the retired people what you have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u403	You guys go take a walk to the villages. We're going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u404	Comfortable! Let's go together!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u405	Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to go now, okay. Independent MP, Mr. Harris Theocharis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u406	Thank you very much, Madam President. And I am very pleased to hear Mr Pappas say that he wants another Europe. I do not think that this other Europe is consistent with the surpluses of 3.5%, and even if Mr Pappas wants to tell us that there is no agreement, 'common psalm crossings'. This agreement will be made and we will see whether and whether it will bring us the lowest surpluses of 3.5%. But if you do not bring them, Mr Papapas, then the Greek people will have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u407	What you were, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u408	I wasn't Minister, Mrs. Fotou. I'm still here, Mrs. Fotio, waiting for you to bring me the D.A. for the drachma script. You don't even know that I wasn't a Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, your deadlocks are evident. What did you promise us? Quick closure of the second evaluation. Well, it doesn't seem to be too close. Integration into quantitative relaxation. Unfortunately, with what you have done, we lost the January meeting and it seems that we are going for March, although I doubt whether we will even succeed then. Why? Why did you give an alibi to this process that you chose our partners and lenders to say "Let us wait for the official surplus to come out", so the agreement should go back and lose in March, go for April and May. Counterparties for the debt. You have only won short-term measures and nothing else. The only actual profit of the last Eurogroup was that there was a parallel start of short-term measures, together with the second assessment. And that's what you missed yesterday. The ESS has frozen the short-term measures and will wait for the evaluation from January and we see. Outside the markets. Without quantitative relaxation, how do we get out on the markets? We're not going out. This goes to the Greek bells. Development corridor. But you drugged him into the hallway with what you've done. The preservative uncertainty, confusion does not go hand in hand with growth. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in a dilemma: With Shoeble or with the people? That's the dilemma. So you're with the people? For condemning him to 3.5% of the surplus for infinity? Where did you bring a fourth memorial? Where did you tie with the impossible goals and the next governments, not just yours? Where do you give infinitely defer growth? You who institute the "cutter" in the biennial? You are threatening elections, not Europeans, who do not care whether we will have or will not have elections, and have responded to this, and have given you the answer that you had, but your Members, to feel fear and vote for the measures that are coming? Ladies and gentlemen, you're not with the people. So, through the abduction site and according to "AGE" you're with Soible. You're Shoeble's representatives in the country. You're with Shoeble, because you're giving him what he wants, 3.5% surplus, permanent austerity, and he's giving you a deferral of measures. Withdrawal of measures gives you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u409	6.5% who were you giving it to?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u410	I know, you're upset about the truth. SYRIZA with the truth has a difficulty of coexistence. And so Mr. Shoeble gives you a postponement of measures, because if next year - it is cheap to postpone Shoeble, 3.5% cares - or in 2018 the funds fall apart, then what are you going to do? You will cut pensions then and the Commission will say: "Oh, we were wrong. I am sorry, the measures have not finally reached us, but the target is 3.5%. Cut pensions now." So the people, tied up by you and Siomple, the partners. Ladies and gentlemen, you have brought an amendment to give people a breath. But pensioners are on the outside and protest, because your mockery is obvious, because you did not keep your signature, what you agreed last year. Why do you keep making fun of yourself? Why did you give ESM an alibi to freeze the debt measures? What does the last August's agreement say, what Mr Tsipras signed last August? It says, if there is a surplus, that is, if our country succeeds and has more surplus than it has agreed, as is currently the case, you can give 30% - no, you must give 30% - to the outstanding obligations. So we're telling you, pay the pensions for the pensioners who wait two and three years to get their pension. A billion awaits retired people to be paid. That's three hundred million. Give a breath to those who wait for their pension and don't see it. Also, he says, 40% can give it as you like. Good. Give the money to anyone who needs it more. Who's that? There are two hundred thousand children, who are in families without any worker, and both are unemployed. If we give each child EUR 500, it's 100 million. That's where they'll get that money. Finally, about the families who will get the social income of solidarity. These are the families that have the biggest problem right now in our country. These families can therefore receive an exceptional allowance, a grant, another 300 million. A total of 700 million, which is exactly 30% and 40%, that you could do. So you could respect the agreement unilaterally, but keep it and not be able to freeze the debt and not put the following: either we help the Greek people or we have problems with them outside. But you only give no criteria for micro-party purposes. Six hundred euros pension and 20,000 euros of rent? He'll get your allowance. Six hundred euros pension and three thousand euros pension the husband? He'll get your allowance. Six hundred euros pension and 2,000 euros property? He'll get your allowance. These are the criteria that you have set, because only micro-party criteria you want to set, and that is why you cannot make fun of pensioners. I have tabled an amendment with Mr Gregoraco, which you should do, an amendment that is with the people, not with Shoeble, as is your amendment. Accept it to support the people. Accept it if you really want to resist Shoeble. Accept it to show that you don't want to mock retired people. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not participate in your bad theatre unless you agree to support the Greek people, as I tell you. The Europe of austerity is the Europe that you support and support. The 3.5% Europe is your Europe, it is not ours. Ladies and gentlemen, the way you have chosen is a dead end. Retired people know that. Free professionals know that. Employees know that. The unemployed know that, too. When you learn it, too, the lesson will be very expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u411	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Drama High School. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u412	Madam President, I should first of all like to express my regret at the way in which parliamentary dialogue is taking place at certain times between the Minister or ministers and some Members of Parliament, without taking a position on who is right. The way in which this debate is being held does not, unfortunately, provide an honour for the Greek Parliament. I'm going straight to the point. I wonder, since the government has signed a deal with the lenders and has daily contact with them, is it talking to the troika, why does it not explain to them that we will take certain measures, which are compatible with our agreement? Having been in contact with them on a daily basis, he must tell them that we will announce a number of measures which are compatible with our agreement. Why am I saying that? Because since yesterday, the international agencies and the EurooneWS broadcast that the European Support Facility, the ESM, announced that it frozen the application of the short-term relief measures of the Greek debt until it was established that the measures were compatible with the Memorandum. Good, why is it that the government, as it says, does not say to creditors, to the troika, to the gentlemen here in Hilton, that we will announce these measures, which are compatible and instead create such a situation that the international agencies say has caused strong pressure on Greek bonds and stock exchanges? Is this not a reasonable question that I am expressing at the moment? Of course, Mr Pappas has already reassured us, saying that European players say that these measures are compatible. She even said that Mrs. Gennamas was in favor. Of course it is in favour, because it is self-evident. Is it possible for the PASOK Democrat Association to be against when it defends the law of the weak? And what party will be against the aid? None. However, they must state their position. What party will be against the application of the suspension of VAT? Since the Democratic Reconciliation was the main party that has so far contributed not to the application of the equation of VAT between islands and inland. In the first Memorandum, it is clearly indicated. The second memorandum is the same. The law of law never came to the parliament. The law in the House came from SYRIZA and ANEL and was passed by SYRIZA and ANEL. And now, instead of going back, we're going to the suspension of the equation. Suspension, however, for how long? We are not in favour of parole. We are in favour of abolishing, but since there is no abolition, let us go to the suspension. We therefore necessarily support the suspension, but we do not simply want suspension. And why not parole? Because the islands cannot live under this regime. The history of VAT you should know that it is very distant. The differentiation of VAT between islands and the mainland took place at the Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou, when VAT, as a compulsory measure, came from the European Union. Until then, the islands had tax protection, because it is really difficult for the islander to live on the islands, when he buys everything more expensive than the mainland. Their lives are more expensive, islanders leave the islands and the islands no longer have residents. Do you know that the Sultans had a special status in favour of taxpayers for the Aegean islands? I'm talking about the Ottoman Empire. So you realise that this is self-evident. We shouldn't be talking about parole today. We must return to the regime of VAT differentiation between islands and the inland. Saying all this, we have to say that the islands themselves are an important thing for Greece. Even the statements made in the form, if you want, of exaggeration, that is, "E, let us also take some islands, we'll get them back" are annoying and annoying people. Because we need to know the history that these islands have been conquered by Venetians, by knights, by the Ottoman Empire, namely, they are the delear of the Aegean. So we are sitting on and discussing what conditions may we have or may we not have them? That's the obvious thing. I am coming to the point now. Yesterday, the Prime Minister visited Nisyros. As you know, Nisvros is a few miles from Kos. Nissur has no problem, nor does Tilos. Wouldn't it be reasonable for him to go to Kos and see what those hot spots are like? I went to Kos. So I tell you that in hot spots there are rooms, which are four by four by four by four by five, and I saw ten people in there! Can we not tell the Europeans, who have imposed it on us, that we have human conditions in hot spots after they have imposed them? Can we not have the hot spots on secondary, non-purpose islands and have them in the largest tourists, which are defaming our tourism? These are, Ministers, the demands that the government should have from the European Union. In other words, since the European Union imposed hot spots, they should not be installed on the islands of increased tourism. At least that's what he had to demand. Because the European Union says that it should be close to Turkey so that immigrants can return to Turkey quickly, that is to say, come back to Turkey. Unfortunately, this cannot be done. And when this thing is not done, then explosive situations occur on the islands. And when the explosives are transmitted by the media, you realize what defamation they are about Greek tourism in general, but also the islands in particular. These are perhaps the problems that the government needs to see. As far as the amendment he has tabled is concerned, I do not think it serves anyone, not even the government. I imagine all parties are in favour. And he, perhaps, who was not in favor would not have the courage to say so. So what is the vote going on tonight? The vote does not serve anything at all. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, the government should celebrate if this benefit were derived from the actual surplus, not from the delay or - if you wish - from the taxation of small and mediumsized enterprises. For what? Because if small and medium-sized enterprises are constantly taxed, they will at some point cease to be small and medium-sized ones too. They'll be in trouble too. We should also pay the small and medium-sized farmers if there is no production and investment. In other words, the government has to take a little tone down, not to take advantage of things which are self-evident for the whole House and to look at the real substance of the case. Greece must quickly have a firm policy that, as you know, has not been achieved so far. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Why has it not been achieved so far? Because the candidate prime ministers aspire to become prime ministers and everyone undertakes to bring from a memorandum to this House. This has been done since the beginning of the first Memorandum so far. Political stability is a basic condition for not continuing with aids, aids and aids. Without political stability, which will bring investment, production and productivity to the country, I unfortunately fear that our situation will not improve in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u413	Mr Leventis has asked for the floor, but he also asked Mr Theodorakis to make a statement from his seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u414	All right, Madam President, we've come to an agreement. I'll talk after Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u415	Okay. After you solved it between you two. Here, Mr. Leventis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u416	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Ministers. I wrote to the President of the Republic asking for a meeting of political leaders on armaments. I also told Mr Tsipras and I did not receive a reply. This thing, the Prime Minister doesn't answer the political leaders at all, what kind of relationship is that? He did not reply to me: 'yes', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no' or 'no'. I explained and explained that my agony was created after discussions with senior officers, who told me that Turkey was gaining excellence after the F35 was ordered. I can't understand the inertia that is being directed. I was approached by Mr Vitsats at my seat, he said: 'You have a few trials'. I was approached by Mr. Kremastinos at my seat, he said: "Andreas Papandreou and Ozal had said not to spend all the money on the defense." I know a reality, that every day we have threats and we have a President of the Republic who sits down and says: 'We do not grant anything'. If you are satisfied with this situation and where this situation will lead, what can I say? Journalists have rushed to say that with the EUR 200 that I asked for us all to pay more than EUR 1,500, either wages or pensions, I meant to get from the small ones. So if a farmer gets 300 euros, we can get him 200. Because it is a permanent feature of journalists, especially those who are party-stage journalists, that are the counterfeiting of the so-called politicians. It's on a permanent basis. As they said yesterday, I wanted to fire 30% of public officials, and I asked for an assessment. I said that I suspect 30% of them are slow-wage or not coming or getting their wages without offering anything, without meeting needs, and that an assessment must be made. I believe that when one does not offer any work, he is not a worker. I don't understand why the Hall covers them. Foreigners are constantly saying: 'Reduce public spending drastically'. Gentlemen, if some do not work in public, this Chamber has responsibility, because some other world pays taxes, fights daily to pay these people. I don't get it. Approximately, I'd like to ask for proof that I'm wrong and that's zero the slow wages. I said it already. And all the websites and all the newspapers have headlines: "Leventis wants 30% of civil servants to be fired." In this place with these Cassandras and in these ways we are trying to harm careers, as are some other careers standing on the fraud. It's okay. What careers are bothering us, we're trying to eliminate them. For pensions I have said that the International Monetary Fund has shown that as it is today, one worker to a pensioner - we have about the same number of workers and pensioners, and in other countries there are four workers to one of the pensioners - leading to a maximum pension of EUR 1,200. They've said it. So, if we leave the pension system undone, as Katrugalos did - undisturbed left it, despite what he says - you should know that in a few months' time the maximum pension in Greece will be 1,200 mixed, that means 950 euros purely. So the surgery had to have been done for years for pensions. Now I do not know what we are preventing, because with such a reason, one to one of the workers to the pensioners, who is constantly on the armies of the unemployed, so with a reduction in the incomes of the insurance funds, the future is a pitiful one, it is self-evidently unequivocal. There were some descriptions. One minister said that eighteen islands and take us, it's okay, someone else said about the flags, that other flags have the value when they're in your home, other value when they're in a public building and some others said about the Golden Dawn etc. I don't understand, Mr. Tsipras with such MPs keeps the government? That hundred and fifty-three has these people inside. I don't understand. Mr. Paraskevi was willing to hand over the seat. Why does it not deliver it once and has the idea that the far right can be legitimized and a democratic party can all be accepted? I don't get it. You are asking for a roll-call vote today. I don't get it. What roll-call vote? I've asked for a year and a half for a consensus. Communicating will tell us to get together in here. Mr. Tsipras told me that on his own, he can, he doesn't need a consensus. He can do it alone. If you can alone, why are you asking for the help of the other parties, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple? If you can alone, take the snake out of the hole to the end. So, what are we gonna do? Whenever things are good, will you say that you can and whenever there is a fire in our house, will you say, "Help everyone else"? Are these reasonable? We wanted to help from the outset, and we wanted national understanding. That's what we wanted. But Mr. Tsipras' side did not want it. And I'm starting to think that the project we've been doing - which I've fought so much for my simple analogue personally - has also gone lost. We had discussed with Mr. Tsipras not to continue voting the bills with a hundred and fifty-three. He continues with a hundred and fifty-three. He doesn't care what the rest of the room does. So, what Mr. Kourublis said, that he needs thirty bonus seats, we'll find somewhere in the middle of the solution, etc., shows that SYRIZA doesn't believe in simply proportional. That's how I understand, since you keep voting with a hundred and fifty-three. Is that right? Anyone who believes in a mere analogue is, above all, taken by a spirit of consensus. Consensus spirit means national understanding. When I ask for a council under the President of the Republic, Mr. Tsipras doesn't answer me at all. And now he's calling us to vote. Vote what? What he went to do. And how do I know what he did? And how do I know what the intentions are? How are we to vote to show a uniform picture of the country without knowing the Prime Minister's intentions? I'm sorry, gentlemen, but you want the consent of a la carte. You want a consensus at the time of your interest. You don't believe her in consensus. And there's something else I want to say. You wanted to give the poor money. That's right. Are they the poor people who take them? They are not the poor, because they may well be a pensioner of EUR 600 and have a rent of 4,000. Why didn't you set an income criterion, so they couldn't get money? There are other unemployed, penniless people. So the amount of pension to you gives the amount of the wealth each citizen has? It's not accurate. In no country in the world the amount of pension does not count the amount of the wealth of every citizen. I want to say two words about the JRC, 'cause yesterday one of his representatives called me a rabbit. And I say, what have I given Mr. Tsipras? One vote in simple analogue. There is nothing else we have voted on in this Chamber as a Centroon Association. While you, the JRC, went with Mitsotakis and made a government. So you guys are rabbits. We go out with rabbits, then you say it. You have no right to be slanderers. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Let me tell you something else. What are you imploding? We must leave Europe because they are loan sharks. Do you know who wants this? Turkey. Turkey wants Greece to leave Europe, because it is very convenient then for Turkey to have a smaller country to deal with. I'm sorry on your behalf. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] Finally, I wanted to say that the Centroon Association is leaving from the vote. He won't be involved at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u417	The retired people to go and tell them that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u418	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u419	One minute I will give Mr Polakis the floor to make a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Madam President. This is a typographic error in the amendment I tabled before the general number 818 and a specific number 68 where in case (a) of the last paragraph 12, the date 31-12-2016 is replaced by 30-6-2017. It is a mistake that has been made before, and that is why I am correcting it. I'm filing it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr. Polakis. Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Madam President. I always use less time than the one predicted. Ladies and gentlemen, I think history begins to remind days of 2015. When the government proudly negotiated the country's charge with EUR 80 billion. But there is a real question: What are you really trying to set up these days? Are you aware or are you just improvising what comes out? You say, gentlemen of the government, there's money to share. And you say that at the same time that you have added taxes of EUR 2.5 billion. Since there are surpluses, why did we not discuss here in this House a month now when we are discussing the budget, where should these surpluses be directed? So why didn't you seek a consensus? Because of course national understanding is a one-way road, but not a retrospective one, as Mr Tsipras decides, depending on the needs of the moment. I think that retired people, who were shouting just before the streets, know that the benefits to be paid are just a diversion attempt to forget the new taxes of EUR 2.5 billion. To fight, that is to say, in society 'because they are not us' and no one is interested in the great picture of the taxes and waste of the party state. You continue, gentlemen of the government, to ignore the needs of the unemployed and the needs of the real economy. We have told you in the budget debate too. You owe money to the unemployed, to the damaged private sector, who have no social protection and will have a Christmas without a single euro in the house, that is, to those who are not actually looking back. Greece has the highest unemployment in Europe, but it gives the least to the unemployed and to the fight against poverty. Seven out of ten unemployed, you will see it from the recent data from the Greek Statistical Authority, they do not receive a single euro allowance. We are talking about 70% of the unemployed, about eight hundred thousand people. On the other hand, there is money for the customer state! My colleague from Potami Mr. Barriotas gave information here yesterday to the House for the hundred and twenty new bodies you built in 2016. One hundred and twenty new bodies! So since you care for the poor, I have a specific proposal for you: Make an account, which will be financed by the reduction of the waste of the party state and not by the new taxes. Note where money can be found. I am going to say a few random figures: from the reduction in the number of posters, from the reduction in the general secretaries of the ministries, from the reduction in working costs and overtime at the political offices of the ministers, from the abolition of the secret funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence and from the money that will return back to the public funds by PPC workers, which is about 32 million, but which you did not claim to the courts just the other day. We wonder how much, gentlemen of the government, your new communication tricks will cost, what you will exchange the benefits and what the next moves will be if the lenders insist on their refusal. Is there a plan? The dilemma, ladies and gentlemen, is not "Tsipras or lenders". The dilemma was and is it'sociality or taxes - waste, taxes - waste'? Society upright or socially neutralized by new taxes and divided by SYRIZA - ANEL civilisations? You are using pensioners for one single purpose to unite your parliamentary group and it is not moral. And you are using pensioners for a new conflict with Europe and that is dangerous. You are not concerned with the real needs of pensioners, today's and tomorrow's, because, of course, you have said so in the past, when others were giving some kind of shredder, as you said, the only symbolic aid is not social policy. However, ladies and gentlemen, we also want to send a message to the outsiders and especially to those who constantly move the finger on the Greeks: Greek society, dear partners, passes very difficult and pays your own mistakes. Most of the mistakes may be of our political system and especially of the parties that have been ruling and ruling, but this does not reduce the responsibilities of Mr. Shoeble and of all those who stubbornly insist on deadlocked policies and deadlocked roads, some hoping that the Greeks will get tired and leave the euro. But your policy actually strengthens them. You were unleashed by your interlocutors at the IMF, revealing that your proposal was your surplus of 3.5%, that you accepted the 3.5% surplus for the next 10 years. In the face of all this, ladies and gentlemen, we say no, we're not going to be compromising the scene you set up. From the first moment we said that we did not participate in the new mockery. We stand by the society that fights, the society that fights, the young people who want clean words and not the media. And we won't be participating in your malicious performance. The river will not participate in the roll-call vote. The moments require all of us to be responsible and bold, and we have responsibility and boldness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u423	Now Mr. Ilioopoulos has the floor from Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u424	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u425	You want the floor? I didn't get it. Come on, Mr. Heliopoulou. Will you talk later, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u426	After the man got up, I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u427	Not because the Potami will leave too, if you want to say something, come on, Mr President. I didn't get it. Would you excuse me, Mr. Iliopoulou, to take the lead?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u428	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u429	Here, you have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u430	Ladies and gentlemen, we have in mind the communiqués of the parties, and indeed of the Officerial Representation, of the position it will hold on to the vote. I also heard Mr Leventis earlier, and now I heard Mr Theodorakis. They're holding an abstention from responsibility. I am very sorry to have to remind you of something which is self-evident in this Chamber, that no matter how many disagreements we have between us, this year and a half, we all agree that this agreement, the so-called third memorandum, was something that has been done transparently, there is nothing that is shading or being at a second or third reading or under the table. There's nothing we don't all know, good or bad. On the basis of all the elements of each political force, it shall decide at each stage the position it holds. I am sorry that, in the positions of the opposition parties, things that are very hard for the country, and they know them, do not find one minute in their speech, in their rhetoric, to present them. I want to be very clear: you know very well that this product, that is, this amount, which has arisen, is not due to any tricks. There was no trick. You know very well how it turned out. The partner creditors, badly, did not accept the non-measurable revenues which the ministers of this government - and as far as I know at the previous stage and the previous governments - presented as estimates. There is a debate, and they say that we expect revenue from the following sources and from the fight against tax evasion and from these lists and elsewhere, and that is the amount. It's so many billions. And they say the partner lenders, misguidedly, absolutely misguidedly: we do not accept. All we accept is what makes the computer. Wages, pensions, allowances, etc. This is what we put into calculation. The others, if they're going to come out, we'll see. We do not think that Greek tax and other mechanisms can make it. So, on the part of this government, a systematic job has been done for a year, for which you say nothing, as if this billion came about as if it were some kind of a bonus or offered it by a American relative and gave it to the country. There has been a systematic effort - and this has to be done every year - and this amount has emerged, which is in no way in agreement and in any way in terms of its availability, as to where it is going, and so on. You know that. And since it emerged, that is, after it has been counted, after it has been measured in the last few days, on this amount, the Government has made a specific decision and said that it should be made available there. Obviously, it could also take another decision, be made elsewhere or have a dialogue on where it will be made available. That's all. However, the recognition that it is not the responsibility of the Greek Government, but that it is a recital of mistrust against the country on the part of partner lenders in these discussions, does not arise from anywhere, is not mentioned anywhere. There is also no mention of the fact that today's vote, caused by SYRIZA's colleagues, is not to be of any kind of wide consensus or cobras or the others that have been heard. It emerged because, from the standpoint of the permanent source and a wound against the country yesterday and the day before - I do not want to name, we all understand - there was a further triple in the country, not the government. They said what the Greek Government can self-evidently make available, that it is out of agreement, that it is a unilateral action - without it relying on anywhere, because there were other very serious views among the creditors who said otherwise. As this question has been raised to the Greek Parliament, to the government and to the country, we now have a personal and individual vote. It didn't come up like a trick, someone who wants to show there are consents, and in between he does various other things. So there is a need for a placement. And it is not possible to ignore, for example, the fact that, for the VAT issue in the islands - and indeed, the specific islands of this whole axis - in this House on all sides in time, it has been pointed out that this is incomprehensible when the Canary Islands have from 0% to 6%. And instead of saying about those who impose these shameful measures and coercion, what are you doing? We have not said that you should give up a government which is trying, in short or in part, or in fact, to resurrect, but, in any case, to consent, say a good reason in favour of the country or say a bad reason for those who do so. There's nothing to be heard in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u431	We said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u432	Mr. Theodorakis said something. He sent a message out and I took the occasion from that to speak. Other aspects have not been heard. Nor did the Qualified Opposition sounded in yesterday's announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u433	Ten times we've said it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u434	Please and I'll close. Mr. Fisherman, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u435	We've been through it ten times. Some people are deaf here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u436	You're very welcome. If you can, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u437	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u438	Mr. Fisherman, now, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u439	Did you also - and I will close with this - do you not know that bills with measures now being discussed, Mr Psariano, such as that on plastic money - we lost the entire tourist season, and it is a bill that has been submitted for many months since the beginning of 2016, in discussions with partners, lenders - or others about the wrong or other funds in which a taxation takes place, for months they have been delayed, with the result that there has been an obvious delay in the obvious revenues that our country could have? When will these responsibilities be attributed? And is it so bad, at least, at the level of responsibility - beyond the objections to government policy, that they reasonably have the opposition parties, because it is counterpopulation, and they do - is it so unthinkable to those who create this suffocating environment once again for the country, to stand up to a front from all over the Greek Parliament and all the parties and to send such a signal? And you're leaving one with his team, so you don't get to be Tsipra's coopers? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, too. I'm sorry for Mr. Heliopoulou, who's waiting for him in Stepma. Mr. Iliopoulou has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, Madam President. Did Mr. Voutsis really believe what he said so long? All these things, these excuses for all the things that the government does, do they really believe in? Obviously, he did not believe them, and that is why he was looking towards his own Members. Not even one look was taken in any other direction by the Greek Parliament, although the President of Parliament, because the only ones who tried to convince were his own MPs. And what do they do? As Members have already said here, can they appear in their regions? Under no circumstances can the members of the SYRIZA and soon appear anywhere. The responsibility of Mr Theodorakis is, of course, to leave the groups. We are the anti-democrats who sit here talking and have speakers, and we justify each time whether we are voting in favour or against a bill. We are undemocratic! You guys get up and go and run, you're democrats! That's how you understand it. Today we came here to discuss the most important thing of all, a new trick of Alexis Tsipras, of the political charlatan, who always pulls a "lady" through the hat and tries to change what we all see, the anticipation of our country. Of course, we don't know this time where Alexis Tsipras is going and we'll see it in the next few days. Does he really want to take it to a break - assuming, of course, why did all the lenders know about it, as you say, the loan sharks, all know it and clear it up - and with such a counter-resistance bonus offered to him by the loan sharks to go to an election, to save anything or to bring into the celebrations - as he had done with the third memorandum on 14 August - or immediately thereafter, new tougher measures and to say 'it's okay, but I gave you five drachmas in the pocket in the holidays'? That's how we figure out, of course, where it's going once more. He says he's resisting. Today we see Skourletis, SAN and other resistance lefters coming out and messing with Siomple. Really, these people who rule our homeland two years, where have they resisted Shoeble? What 'no' have you told Shoeble? Tell me a "no" you have once told Shoeble. You're just playing it anti-resistance these days. You are the enslaves of Shoeble and of every Shoeble who governs Europe, you continue the same policy, catastrophic, criminal, national dismantling policy, the one that New Democracy has been implementing for so many years with PASOK. You're exactly the same, you're no different, so don't fight. I see today that they're playing Paul's fight with Adonis on the various sites. Well, don't smash some socks in here that you have differences and different policies! Mr Voutsis was trying to convince us that it is a surplus which must be given, of course, and of course, we will also vote in favour of this money being given, but do not tell us that it is a surplus. It is not a surplus, it is a figure, which has arisen from overtaxation by the Greeks, and this money will go to a new overtax that will come with the measures that you are constantly bringing - every week and every other measure - so don't tell us about a surplus. It's overtax. For a surplus you would have told us in two years if you had brought substantial growth to our homeland and started primary and secondary production. Since you haven't done these things and you know only to make virtual tax surpluses, you can't talk. I can't tell what you are. Give crumbs to one pocket of retired people and put a deep hand in their other pocket to get them not what you give them, but multiples. The conclusion is one - we say it again - that you are exactly the same with the New Democracy, you vote together with the Memorandums, you vote the mosques together, you vote the cohabitation pacts, so don't get out of the New Democracy in the festivities and unleash your districts and do not mock the Greek people once again that you will bring something new, because you simply have nothing to bring in. The superpatriot, super Memorandum of Georgiadis, says "I will not vote for what Troika will bring, what the loan sharks will bring, I will vote so much more". We have no reason to doubt that he will vote so much and so much. In fact, you should be bored of all this theatre you've been playing all these years. I heard Mrs Fotou in her speech and she was really shocking. I thought I was living in another country, that if I went out on the street, I'd see another country, an America, an Austria. That's how he presented them to us. I was ticking, I said "living in Greece?" if I go out, things will have changed so much and I won't have gotten it? Of course not, Mrs. Fotio has just come out for two years and see what the real Greece is like. Other, former Minister of SYRIZA, tells us that it's okay to burn the Greek flag, nothing's wrong. The other, the super left, is bringing us an amendment to move illegal immigrants free of charge to public transport. If he wants to take them home with his own car. The Greek people do not owe us to enter means of transport which may have contagious diseases from all those you have brought us and which you have loaded us here. On the same day that the Prime Minister goes to Nissyros and tells us about islands - here is the tragic case - another minister, a key member of the government, as if they were his own, as if we were talking about his own property, is giving islands to the Turks. "We have opened and waited for you", the picturesque Zouraris, who every day makes a statement to disorientate the Greek people. Of course, you bring about insularity when you said you would not hurt it, when Kammens said that it would throw the government, if it were affected, if the island is affected, if VAT is increased. And there are some bad people, some undemocratic people, as you say them - some fascists, as some others say - and they are tabling an amendment. This amendment says that VAT should be immediately returned to the former regime, to a reduced status for islands, so that our locusts on the islands can cope, not to win or to speculate, just to live, just so that they can stay on their islands, on their lands, nothing else. So as you have done today in our homeland, this is the question, the simple survival of the Greeks that you deprive the islanders of, because they buy everything more expensive. You don't know them, of course, because you haven't been to an island to see how these people live. You think everything is Mykonos and everyone lives in the fat. You have not gone to see what the reality is when they buy at twice the price even basic goods. We therefore bring this amendment and invite you to vote in favour of it, in order to reduce VAT to levels that were before, to have reduced VAT. Apart from the survival of the inhabitants of the islands, this will, of course, increase the competitiveness of the islands, because, as we write in it, once we want foreign exchange from tourism on the islands, we will have to look at what the surrounding countries, Italy, France - we are writing this, of course, in the amendment - Austria or Spain that have 10%. Turkey, directly competitive country in tourism, has 8%. So our islanders are trying to deal with those who have been playing on much better terms than our own. Of course, you don't care about islandity or locusts of the rest of Greece. You are only interested in “Keep” and be enslaved to foreign loan sharks. We also hear over the last few days, as it is too much fashion to talk about all parties and bewilder, fight, about who washes the Golden Dawn better. So, listen to something, so we can close it like this. Golden Dawn doesn't need laundering. Golden Dawn shines. It's crystal and it'll save our country. You who have brought home forty years at this point don't launder anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u442	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Drama High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I shall now give the floor to the Minister of State, Mrs Fotou, in order to say which parliamentary amendments she is acceptable to us to prepare. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u443	Apart from the ministerial amendments, which of course have already been analysed and analysed, would you like, Madam President, to say in figures?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u444	Yeah, if you'd like, tell the parliamentarians, so we can write them down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u445	No, I'm talking about the ministerial. I shall therefore say all the ministers, which are ten in number: H 79/48, 797/49, 803/55, 804/56, 805/57, 806/58, 807/59, 810/61, 814/65 and 818/68. For the congressmanships...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u446	Madam Secretary, 817 and 818?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u447	There is no amendment under general number 817. There is the total number 814 and then the general number 818.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u448	The general amendment 817 is a parliamentary amendment, it is not a ministerial one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u449	Madam Minister, can you accept Amendment No 818/68?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u451	Madam Minister, will you accept Mr Petropoulou's Amendment No 821/71?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u452	Where is she? I don't have it right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u453	It shall be the one specifying how to declare and pay insurance contributions for the persons referred to in Article 4 (1) of the Law. 4387.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u454	It's been developed by the Minister, isn't it? He's made it acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u455	No, she hasn't developed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u456	She hasn't developed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u457	All right, I'll come back. I'll be brief and I'll be back in an hour. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u458	All right, you'll come back. We are going to go through the parliamentary amendments that you are accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u459	I accept the following from the parliamentary amendments: Amendment No 800/52. It is intended to extend workers' contracts in the Networking and Promotion of Gender Equality, the CEDEFOP and the EIA. You know her. Secondly, Amendment No 799/51. It is about extending administrative support for the municipalities. She's the one who's known. We are prolonging the administrative support because it has not been possible to complete the 'Kalikratis'. Thirdly, Amendment No 801/53. It is a prolongation of a merger of PVCs in the regional PVCs. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u460	It's for the trash.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u461	Yeah, it's for the trash. I also accept Amendment 809/60. This is to extend until 31/12/2017 the duration of the programming contracts with bodies to implement social solidarity actions. It was the contracts that were in existence by Mr Kegeroglu and by your own government. They ended and we renew them up to 31-12-2017, so they can absorb 10%. I also accept Amendment No 811/62. It is about the regulation of issues of language care and centres, that workers should be paid on holiday days. You remember those things. In addition, Amendment No 812/63. It is for the extension of the duration of the provision of services of the PPC, the CEDEFOP and the Roma Support Centres and the vulnerable OTA Groups until March, to enable them to complete their contracts. Furthermore, Amendment No 817/67. It is the extension of Attica and Thessaloniki secondary doctors' contracts. Finally, Amendment No 819/69. It is about rationalising the choice of trainers in lifelong learning structures by means of an automated system. These are the amendments that are accepted. For the Ministerial Amendment I will see it, Madam President, and I will reply to you. I don't have it in front of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u462	All right, Minister. Now Mr. Jellonis has the floor for eight minutes. I would ask that we keep the time, because we also have a vote. There are several other speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u463	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote which Members of this House have asked for today in Parliament on the one-off social benefit for low-pension workers, I think, is very clear because we are in the eighth Memorandum of Understanding, which was voted a while ago, and because on the European side there is this shame over the country. And I am really surprised when I hear the co-pilots say that they welcome the statement by the President of the Democratic Association, Mr Gennamas, who from Brussels did nothing more than support the country. Today, then, they heard it. But when we have been calling as PASOK in 2010 for a national negotiating line to deal with the arrogance of the troika at the time - today baptized as institutions - what was the position of the other parties of the Greek Parliament? What's their attitude and why? Today it is quite clear that, unfortunately, the crisis, as we have repeatedly said, has been used by the political parties at once at a time, others to become prime ministers and take power to make parties and become later prime ministers. And they come today and ask for a roll-call vote. Why? Is the primary sensitivity to low pensioners? You didn't show that, gentlemen of the conflict. And I'll tell you why you didn't show it. When did you bring the proposal to the House to strengthen the low-pension workers? Was it the result of a planned policy that came at a time when some conversation would take place? Oh, no! It came after three days of discussing the budget in the House, where it became apparent to the Greek people that you brought a budget with EUR 2.5 billion in extra taxes and EUR 1.6 billion in social benefits cuts. And it was announced immediately before the Prime Minister's speech that you would give the 671 million. After all, it seemed that you gave it to the Prime Minister's speech when, from one hour to a quarter, about fifty minutes concerned his placement for this minimum benefit to retired people. The clipboard of this measure is seen by being given to those who do not need it. Because you have to have an income cutter, you have to have a plan, so you can see overall who needs to get it. Are the unemployed? Are the categories of citizens with zero incomes? What are we going to do about them? But this was to be given at the time when the budget debate was going to take place in the context of a communication pyrotechnic. That is why today's dilemma - which we see to be in your guiding booklet - is what you are with. With Shoeble or the low-pensioners or Tsipras? We, as Democratic Independence, have no dilemma. We're not with either. We're not with Siomple, but much more we're not with SYRIZA-ANEL Co-government. It is a co-government that has really led the Greek people and each Greek family these two years with its tax-suppressive and tax-paying policy in great dead ends, now comes and uses in power games those who really need support. We, for our part, have no reservations about what we will do. Neither will we be with the policeman and the policemen nor will we hesitate to take a stand on a matter that is clear. Because ideologically, politically and socially, we cannot vote against an amendment, which gives even little financial support to our fellow citizens who really need financial support. It was for us, it is and will always be the self-evident and self-evident, as we have shown. So no one can say and play on our social sensitivity as a political space over time. On the other hand, we would like to make it clear that the tide in the negotiations is another reason that has led you to bring this measure now to this point in time, because the second assessment is within a fog landscape, is an appointment blindly with partners. And you had to turn public opinion somewhere else to talk about it today, which is self-evident. You could pass it, you did not have to make roll-call votes, but you had to put these dilemmas today, in order to disorientate the public from what you agreed to today and what worse they come to the Greek people. This is not your responsibility. Crocodiles are tears against the social sensitivity you are showing today to the low pensioners when you have deducted social benefits of money and many more millions, EASA, subsidiary, all these benefits of pensioners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. That is why, for our part, we consider that it is not the responsibility of the 'at present' or the abstention. That is why we say, on the other hand, that the government has one thing to do, which leads things to bigger deadlocks every day: resigning and leaving. Because the Tsipras - Kammenos is not part of the solution, but is a factor and a multiplier of the problem in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u464	Now Mr. Mandas has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u465	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think what is going on here today - and we need to think about it - goes beyond this Chamber. And I say this in this sense: I think it is more than obvious, for those who want to see a little further, that at the moment and in the next few days, on the occasion and catalyst of the Greek issue, a conflict is taking place at European level now. And from this conflict there is no case, no matter how much the theatre plays, no clear position. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today's debate on the attitude of the political forces is extremely revealing, but also on the attitude of each and every one of them individually towards a crucial moment for the country. Because it is not possible these days, these days, that we do not understand or do not understand what is going on. I want to be clear. The statements come after each other. What we are aware of at the moment is that a country, in essence a person who expresses a specific policy of cruel austerity, a tough programme that wants not only for our country but for Europe, tries in every way, but in any way, to cancel the rest of Europe. Because it is quite clear, Mr Moscovisi has already said so, that it is a country that objects to the issue of short-term debt measures. It was also stated that Eurogroup was not aware of the statement made by Mr Dieselblum. So the landscape, whether we like it or not, slowly clears up. I think that at this critical moment, which is of wider importance - and remember that - it has a historic horizon for democracy and for Europe, there are no positions and opinions that are trying to hide with incredible excuses. I do not want to repeat what we have heard today in this Chamber, what has been attempted, with an effort to obscure the real position, to get to the table. However, one thing can't be dulled by some people: that those who call them unscrupulous, and who never beat up that they've even succeeded in one country or another in Portugal I mean to raise a stature of resistance and put in the center of their attention and at the center of their efforts to end with this austerity, which has levelled everyone, cannot digest it. This attack, this whole set-up scene, it's just about it. It's not the size of our country. We know that, we do not suffer from micromultiple and we are fully aware of our position and our potential and the correlation of forces. It's much more the symbolic meaning. The message they want to send is that, whether you want or not you want, you will be subject to this strategy. You will be subjected to the boot of certain forces who do not want at all a Left that, in very difficult conditions and with very painful compromises, attempts a project to stand on their feet. That's what this is about. I think, ladies and gentlemen, and I will conclude with this, that it is crucial that each and every one of us take a stand at this difficult time for democracy and Europe. Developments within 2017 will be rapid. They will determine the future of our country and Europe. Don't forget that. The big picture is that which plays a decisive role. In this battle, we will not retreat. We will stand up and it is the responsibility of the Greek Parliament, at this difficult time for the country, to give a clear message. Let everyone think about it until the last minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, too, for the time. Mrs Triantafyllou has the floor from SYRIZA. Then there are many colleagues from the Democratic Independence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have experienced inappropriate parliamentary behaviour. I did not hear the recommendations, which Mr Javarras usually makes, to the Vice-President of the New Democracy, who, in my view, especially today, was a mobile polluter. Of course, to be fair, I honestly believe that anyone who says something will have to prove it, but they certainly show us what they are. So we are discussing today in plenary a bill with a staggering escalation in the saying of teas, with intelligence and even insults, a debate which devaluates the Greek Parliament and especially the Greek people. There were many discussions and places on the surpluses, how much it was, "We had more, but there would be growth" - you had growth in pocket - and questions of fire and places about how much liar the Prime Minister was, etc. So we can ask such smart questions. The previous President of the New Democracy, Mr Samaras, had been dismissed by Father Mitsotakis - I said this again - not as incompetent, but as dangerous. Who was right? Father Mitsotakis or Mr Samaras? And if Father Mitsotakis was right, did you have a dangerous party leader? Was the Prime Minister of Greece dangerous on national issues? Such smart questions and placements can be done, as many as you want, and we ask you answers, smart answers. We're sure you can give them. However, there is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u468	Smartness is your privilege, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u469	Mr. Javarra, I'll tell you something. I don't know whose privilege intelligence is, however, the way you put it right now and I'm sorry to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u470	I answer, why did you contact me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u471	Yes, I addressed to you and said you did not make recommendations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u472	Mrs. Triantafel, don't waste your time. That's why Mr. Javarras does this to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u473	I agree, Madam President, and thank you. In my view, Mr Javara, the recommendations had to be made when it had to be with your Vice-President. I clearly said my opinion. It's my opinion. If you have another point of view, you can tell her later. I'm on it. However, there is also a vote which seems to make it difficult for these forces that do not play with the Greek people, who do not play with the citizens, who agree with the necessity of the measure, but who decide to leave or say'residents'. However, it needs to be recognised, in order to be serious, that the action which exists abroad and particularly in the European Union on the grounds of the poor, indeed, strengthening of this low-pension pensioner, because none of us said that it was the thirteenth pension, under no circumstances. None of us said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u474	The Prime Minister said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u475	In quotes. There's everywhere. I think you see everything and you know everything, you should have seen it. They're clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u476	In the oral speech, however, introductorys do not appear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u477	Secondly, I say that on the basis of this poor aid to the low-pension workers, which is the 'three-third pension', we should see what is going on in the European Union. On the occasion of this conflict, this conflict concerns the European Union itself, and it is not about whether this agreement enables us to implement a social policy. The challenge is whether the European Union - which is in a critical state - on the occasion of the Greek Government's efforts will dare to change its general line even if so, in what direction. There is conflict, there are examples. You can see today a number of different statements from Moscovisi, Sapen, Pitella and others. Let us be honest about the fact that there is a way out for the institutional crisis in the European Union by allowing, whether or not fundamentally or not, national governments, democratically elected, to conduct a fundamental social policy. The turn taken by the negotiation, as well as the Prime Minister's announcement of the social dividend and the suspension of the increase in VAT on the islands, is a direct message to the blind Siomple line. Europe cannot continue with a policy that dismantles social cohesion, which is dismantling democracy, and which leads to mathematical accuracy in the friction of far-right rhetoric and rekindles nationalism throughout Europe. It is a Europe without a future and there is no democracy. If there is, there is as much as the priesthood of the German Minister of Finance. Next to him, the most extreme circles of lenders. Their aim is to dismantle Europe and its geopolitical instability and to challenge peace. The peace which was a treaty of existence for the European Union itself and for the European area itself. Think about what is happening in Italy, think about what can be done in the European south. Consider that these countries - and this is the greatest risk - have north and south. Italy has north and south. Did any of you think that the South might start separating? It is a distant dream and I hope that it will never happen, but as the states of Europe drive, its parts that are well-being will not want to exist in this southern Europe. It is impossible, I think, for politicians and citizens not to see the deadlocks of the doctrine of austerity and neoliberal tripping. It is impossible not to see that there is the West. But what is really outrageous, in my view, is the attitude of the leadership of the New Democracy. The President of the New Democracy is a leader, who only seeks to conquer power for the benefit of the interlocutory and the interests, which have been wasted for so many years in the country. In this arrogance and representing the domestic, parasitic and state-owned class, he does not hesitate to openly undermine the national interest and take the positions, be they the extreme neoliberal International Monetary Fund or the Shoeble, which has been stirring up the negotiation, because the government has announced the distribution of social benefits to pensioners. I think the New Democracy should answer. They're questions we've asked before. Does it support collective bargaining? Does it support the national position to close the second evaluation, without new measures and with surpluses of less than 3.5% for 2018? Does it support the provision of this 15th third pension? Will the International Monetary Fund and another fourth Memorandum sign what the International Monetary Fund calls for, causing, in fact, creditors to take the elected government down? The leadership of the New Democracy, I have to tell you that in my view it is lame. She still remains, just because she has promised her friends, the fake graduates, the listers, the canalarchs that she will succeed in overthrowing Tsipras. She plays everything on the back of Greece and knows very well that the closure of the second assessment will mean the political end of a family, whose policy of offering is considered inversely proportional to the duration of her presence in domestic political life. The Mitsotakis family is an open wound to the fight to defend our country's national interests. The arrogance, Heraklitos said, we must erase it more than the fire. I think that the MPs of the Officerial Representation must be placed before their responsibilities. Finally, your problem, gentlemen of Anti-Population, and above all of the Officer, is that we are here. Your problem is that we don't want our peace. Your problem is that we are not politicizing, at no cost. Your problem is that we don't put any requests for pillaging. Your problem is that we do not want your credit, as a consistent but harmless force, which puts us in the museum, which turns us to the Left, but above all to a collective sect, to a prophet, which speaks of the sinful but in vain world and of the great time of socialism. Your problem is here and we are looking forward to a pan-European change, but not like social democracy is anticipating. The tasks, in my view, result from life itself. The world has relied on us. The truth is, we didn't rely so much on our world. It's time to do it. We have to do it now before it's too late. Together with the Greek people, we can change things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u478	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u479	Ladies and gentlemen, what we have been living for two years, the country has had no obligation to live them and society has to experience them. Tsipras manages the worst possible: a third inappropriate memorandum, an inappropriate loan of 86 billion, a return to the recession within two years with the loss of seven development units, overtaxation and a cut in social costs. Yes, that would not have happened if the SYRIZA - ANEL rule had not been intervened. Since yesterday, however, he has also achieved something unprecedented, a new record: while the whole House yesterday was in favour of the amendment to dividends, of course, with his comments from each party, Mr Tsipras managed to reduce the acceptance of his order. Well, that's Mr. Tsipras, we've learned him now. It's getting worse, too. But the New Democracy, which claims power, while yesterday it was in favour of the amendment, this morning and only with the reputation of a roll-call vote, has changed its position. So, what position did he take? No place. Other parties have learned that they have been pushed into naughty fleeing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not evading, nor are we absent. We are here with positions and opinions, and those who speak abundantly of populism in the decision to restore at least part of the damage to the pensioners, are themselves plundered by professionally and asymmetrically. The fact that the government did not recommend the best solution to the social dividend, since it did not include the unemployed, the poor non-retired, the homeless and others who belong to vulnerable groups, did not affect us in our decision to vote positively in the restoration of a small part of the damage to the pensioners. We do not, however, live in them because they are not just pensioners affected by the crisis. If the data announced today for a surplus of 7.5 billion, then after the obligation has been met, according to the agreement, i.e. 30% for the debt and 30% for the payment of outstanding debts, it remains 40%, which after payment of the social dividend, is 1,880,000 000. Here, then, glorious glorious field! For what? Firstly, in order to include both the unemployed and the poor non-retired people in the dividend. Secondly, to deviate from high taxation. Thirdly, for the implementation of the employment and implementation clause: 'Guaranteed work for young people', as the Democratic Reconciliation has repeatedly proposed. The fact that Tsipras asks for a roll-call vote on a matter that he votes for or voted for until yesterday in the entire House must not lead to any revision of the substance of the policy. Our decision and our positions are not limited to dividends or to guaranteed social incomes, which is a great innovation in tackling poverty in our country. It is work that we have worked out, that we have carried out pilots, which is implemented even after two years of delay, and we support it. However, we need to talk about what is politically revealed today: the transition of Mr Tsipras from the month's regularity to normalisation of the week and day. Mr. Tsipras has now been stripped. The story he 'played' in the past few months, that the 'child' has not left it, is over. Now his inability to negotiate effectively for the country is revealed, an inability that has led him in the way that moves to the highest level of demagogicism. It creates a new deadlock for the country, trying to cover the double failure. Tsipras tries to highlight as the main theme of negotiation and conflict with the forces of Europe the issue of the social dividend, in order to silence his complicity for the agreement of the surpluses of 3.5% for many years to hide his failure to pursue the debt. The responsibility for the negotiation is, of course, the government, but the deadlock concerns the country and the citizens. It is virtual in many cases to confront the issues raised by Mr Tsipras. Personally, I believe that the scenarios for direct elections do not work. Mr. Tsipras and the pluss don't leave power. Besides, she's been in love with her. They won't let the willing ones - as they say - take over. Why? They are all willing to implement Mr Siomple's policies. But let us ask some real questions that concern society. Should Europe's attitude be changed for Greece? Yes, on the main issues we have already raised, no doubt. Can today's government and Mr. Tsipras achieve this? No, I'm very sure. Can a Mitsotakis government, for example, succeed? The answer is: None of them alone. We're going in from one vicious circle to another with this policy. Without national consensus, the country cannot achieve what others deny it, the hard - if you like - of Europe. The country needs a change of policy and this can be done with another government. However, Tsipras - and I say this to some people who are deceived and have greater anxiety about when Tsipras will leave - will not leave with the possible vote in the House on an amendment to a social allowance. He will leave with a race that will completely reveal his inability to deal with the big issues of the country. It will be gone if we all declare and testify our policies in the context of the necessary national agreement for the country. We call on all those who have been deceived by Mr Tsipras and those who cannot stand to be disappointed by Mr Mitsotakis to come with us, to succeed in changing political correlations, in order to enforce the national understanding that presupposes the exit from the crisis. We, the Democratic Alliance, the social democrat party in Greece, believe in the need for a social state, strong, modern and sustainable. We reject the view of the European People's Party and those who follow it, with the monologue for the purchase and reduction of social costs. We also reject the logic of the Radical Left in Europe for the distribution of wealth from overtaxation without a real economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. We believe in growth and fair policy, in the strong real economy and in entrepreneurship that produces quality jobs. Only by progressive reforms, development with work, sustainable social state can we escape the dilemma of overtaxing and cutting the social costs promoted by the government and the horizontal reduction promoted by the New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u480	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u481	Madam President, I would like to speak for a three-minute speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u482	Intervention on what subject? Do you need it now, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u483	He needs to, because Mr. Kegeroglu has referred to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u484	Let's hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u485	We have explained with sufficient clarity what the position we have taken because we have seen here today that this amendment, which is allegedly awarded a one-off trial allowance or as a third pension, is the vehicle to create processes within the institutions of the European Union from which there will be consequences for Greece. Since the generosity and sensitivity of the government to the small pensioners is not naked, but the alibi is made to create these kinds of problems and these heroic redundancies that will end up - we all know where - in honest compromises we think what we are dealing with is to keep our dignity. Poverty, perhaps, unites the SYRIZA and the Democratic Alliance, in view of the fact that we are on the eve of the election of the President of the European Parliament and all of this goes to the logic of electoral compromises, which I do not know where they can lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u486	Aah! That's why you did it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u487	Of course you appreciated that later, didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u488	You didn't like it, Minister. Next time I'll make sure I get you stuffed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u489	Here, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u490	I have time to talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u491	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam and Mr Ministers. No, Mr Javarra, they do not cause a problem for the institutions, for the troika, for the debates they have in the current process. They try to create a problem in Greece by introducing the external problem of the negotiation they made as internal. But I'll see you then. Ladies and gentlemen, in the country where the Deputy Minister of Education claims that, by losing some islands, nothing has happened without being disturbed by the Prime Minister, without being disturbed by his Minister, without being disturbed by the Members of the Chamber. Well, in the same country, the Prime Minister is doing courageous exercises with a roll-call vote to introduce into the internal dialogue a problem that he has created in the negotiation, and that is shameful and cheap communication tricks. These are downright and cheap communal tricks, because in the end it is nothing but an alibi that the House is discussing today - it is supposed - that the Prime Minister's great initiative should be taken by the Members of the Chamber of Deputies with a roll-call vote. Note why the next roll-call vote you are going to make, perhaps, is to vote out what you are voting on today. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And while there was consensus yesterday on this provision, I do not think you have any difficulty - today the government is using this firework, as I said, as an alibi to create a false conflict between the political parties. The government is now consciously leading the country to the point that it had brought it in 2015, without delusionality, political incapacity and political selfishness. Ladies and gentlemen, you are creating artificial dilemmas for the supposedly harsh negotiation. You are now willing and obedient followers of Shoeble, and sometimes you cause a fight with an obvious aim to cover your strategic retreats. "Speak", colleague, for the thirteenth pension, while you have already taken the twelfth pension from the pensioners. You come by roll-call vote and you shield low pensioners, to tell us that you want the support of the House for the so-called political solution that you want to discuss and negotiate with the institutions and the troika. When did the political solution you proposed succeed? When did the political solution work? Did you come with the short term and the commitments for 3.5% of the surplus fixed in the medium term? To get together: In the double-successful negotiation you're making, you're alone. You are alone in the mistakes, on your own incomplete policy, alone in the catastrophic effects of the impoverishment of the Greek people and the small and medium-sized enterprises, you are also alone in what the Prime Minister will bring today from Berlin. We won't hide behind the present and explain why. We will not hide behind the present in the face of low pensioners, nor behind the abstention, so that we do not take a stand on your failed policy. After all, what, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? In what? To get a few hundred thousand poor people a one-off income that the government has taken through their pockets? Let's say it tonight. I do not think many people will appreciate it, because they already speak and say 'and the allowance will be paid to the government and we will vote against'. 'Cause that's the place they get the low-pensioners. We are voting in favour of regulation and we are voting against the government's deadlock. That is why we say that this government is dangerous every day that passes more and more and has to go. The government today is looking for an alibi. She's doing courageous exercises, as I told you, against the troika and constantly retreats to her demands. You think you're fooling not only the puppets, but also the Greek people with evil political tricks. But everyone has understood you. All you do every day is break the Greek people and go back years with depths of crisis and increase poverty. The country has a surplus of 7 billion from the overtaxation of the Greek people and the prevalence of the state's debts to third parties and you give 600 million of the low pensioners from what you have already taken them over this entire period. You're doing fake wrestlings without having agreed the measure to create artificial collision. There was no other reason. It wasn't the Christmas punch. You could have done it earlier, later, but it was agreed anyway. We will tell you this and 100 euros to give the low pensioners again, if they were to return these 100 euros to those who lost thousands of euros from your policy. But tell me, will you give it back? Will you restore pensions? Will you accept our amendment to the irresponsible bank account for those engaged in business? Oh, no. So you will be and you will be left alone without deceiving this time, if you think that the small single allowance you give will change the attitude of the Greek people to you. The government today breaks down socially and will collapse electorally when you choose it. Here we go. Mr Tsipras' murder cannot be alibied about the country's punishment. His tragic irresponsibility builds new artificial separation lines. We do not fall into the trap you want to set up in the political system today, because we separate people who are starving from the dangerous politicians who have brought these people into the situation they are today. That's why it's time you offered the only service in the country you can. It's time to go. Through the defeat of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, the change of political relation is going through society and the House. I would tell you to do so with your pass, because the people know how to insist, but also to endure, and their answer will be when you choose, it will be a paid answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u492	Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u493	Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, for two years, has been pursuing ineffective policies. In the first period we had the delusional, delusional, as the Prime Minister described them, which led to a painful memorandum that troubles the Greek people. Then we had a hundred years of overstabilization, for a hundred years we couldn't manage our country's assets. We had the cuts in pensions, insurance, the abolition of the ESS and all these issues in taxation, which you bring every day, which lead the Greek society and economy to a situation that cannot be overcome. It is a tax policy that you are also pursuing in this budget 2.5 billion new measures, of which 95% are taxes, the vast majority of which are indirect taxes. This is not a left-wing policy. This is not a progressive policy, the sovereignty of indirect taxes. This is not a policy that can get the country out of the crisis. You continue on all issues and in negotiation with your ineffectiveness. We had the positions of the International Monetary Fund and we had the positions of both the European partners and Mr Soible. You've managed the worst mixture. You agreed on a primary surplus of 3.5% for 2018 and in the medium term thereafter, as stated in the Eurogroup decision. What does that mean? Impossible measures continue from now on. The position of the International Fund did not pass on to debt, as the position of the primary surplus did not pass with regard to the immediate generous write-down of public debt. The regulation in the short term concerns after 2040 in substance. Of course, all measures are still at the discussion table. We told you to effectively reject unreasonable demands on labour. We have clear positions on the group redundancies that must not be lifted for the lock out, but finally do so, as had been effectively protected in the past period. The group redundancies, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not know, had been blocked in all the negotiations the previous time, now they have again come to the table with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] That's the reality. So we have the inefficiency of the government with the irrational demands and ideological obsessions of the partners in work, but also with Mr Shoeble on all issues. We're stable. We are faced with the irrational demands of Mr Siomple, the European People's Party and, it seems, many times also the representative of the European People's Party in our country, the New Democracy. As, at the same time, we are against the logic of Mr Tsipras, which leads to an inefficiency at all levels. We have the amendment before us, for which we have had a clear position from the outset. What did we say about this amendment? That we believe that despite the fact that you are constantly receiving money from pensioners, you get the multiples of what you want to give with this aid, that even a minimum breath, which is there, we will support it. The New Democracy has said so too. And the New Democracy has changed its position today. Why is that? Why did the voting procedure change, or why did Mr. Shoeble have a different position? How about the vote or Mr. Shoeble's positions? It has not been sufficiently explained. We hope that by the end of the sitting it will change its position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u494	The data's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u495	But do not, ladies and gentlemen, think that today you are creating a national line. First of all, and with the change in voting method, you are actually creating difficulties in this matter. But one more thing. National negotiating line does not exist. You are negotiating yourself, you are responsible for what you bring and what you have done and what you do and what you will do from now on. Let these be clear. You didn't want, you don't want the national line that we have, neither SYRIZA nor New Democracy. Our position, the position of the Democratic Alliance is stable. The country does not need a subsidy policy for the recycling of poverty. There is a need for modern quality services in social policy, job creation. This is the proposal of modern European social democracy, a representative of which in our country is the Democratic Reconciliation. We are pleased to see all the representatives of the European Social Democrats, the institutions in the European Parliament putting the matter exactly as it stands. I would remind you that both DIMAR and the Democratic Partnership are the distribution of part of the primary surplus over the objectives of the primary surplus in social, development and investment actions. He's not the only target. This was our decisive contribution and 2012-2013 - if you remember - when this clause went through. When this clause had been passed you swamped her, ladies of the government. You were licking at the time. However, you must use the surplus of the surplus in social actions firmly. Of course, this should be done with a plan. It should not be done either with the New Democracy logic that existed in the past but with your own logic. There should be a plan, ladies and gentlemen, which we will be able to see, can be controlled within Parliament, where this money is going, which must go first, for example, in order to strengthen the fight against unemployment, for the long-term unemployed. We need to see exactly where the low pensioners can go for investment activities. But we have to do this with a plan. Not on one night, without a plan, and of course without a productive reconstruction plan, which will take us out of the crisis. This is not the way the country can go. There is no production reconstruction plan, no restructuring plan. Of course, the surplus, whose objectives must be reduced by less than 2%, cannot be achieved with fiscal policies. We need a different policy, a development policy, which will also yield reasonable primary surplus targets. We in the Democratic Alliance therefore have a firm position. We're not, as you can see, with anyone, Mr. Tsipras or Mr. Shoeble. We are with the positions of European social democracy, which say that, of course, the right to use the extra amount of the primary surplus may be the right to a decision of our country, but you must negotiate effectively, which you do not do. You never agree at the right time with the partners. Of course, we need a national line, we need a national line of understanding. You cannot manage, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. We have told you once again that there is a need for national understanding. He needed it yesterday, he needs it today, he'll need it tomorrow. That is why we are striving, in order to convince ourselves of our positions, for the necessary change in political relations, for a modern social democracy that imposes these positions, for national understanding to get the country out of the crisis. Because with your policies today, which continue to be ineffective, the crisis is deeper and we are not coming out of the memoranda. On the other hand, you are signing a lasting memorandum, as in the recent Eurogroup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u496	Mr Constantinople has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u497	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a proposal from PASOK two years ago on the minimum guaranteed income, which the current government, two years later, is bringing to Parliament. We will not put a roll-call vote. We're sure you're going to vote on it. At the same time, however, we are here to discuss the holocaust of the government and Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, who fuels the holocaust of Mr Soible and vice versa. I will tell you two - three examples before we come to the debate on this amendment. When we were here talking about the last recapitalisation, you were defending with Mr Tsakalotos that the Greek Government would have the last word on the administrations of the banks. Yesterday, at a bank that, with all the procedures and conditions, made the election of its new CEO, SSM, with a simple e-mail, stopped the process, gentlemen. The government, of course, can do absolutely nothing, because it handed it all over to foreigners and the leftover of the Greek banks is done in practice, You know, SSM, who you handed over to him, asked that Greek shareholders have no right to choose the new CEO, but the investor - a "coop" that you condemned, would be able to choose, without having the majority, with the signature Tsipras - Kammenos, the new CEO. Prepare, within the days, to sell the National Insurance without any competition. A great company, as you gave the Greek banks, will be handed over again to a friend of Mr. Tsakalotou. Don't forget the smoke and the fruits. We expect the Prosecutor to ask the President of the Games - Mr Tsakalotou's best friend, I do not know if he is at 50 three - to say why he changed, while he was a member of the previous Committee on Games, his decision and handed over the country - without any precedents in another European country - to make casinos everywhere without preconditions. And I wonder, you who asked the questions and you haven't answered Mr. Chakaloto, what do you say? We're waiting for the D.A. to call Mr. Chakaloto to say why the previous administration, appointed again by SYRIZA, had made another decision, and the same members changed their decision. We're not leaving it here, Ministers. We'll take it as long as we don't get far away. That's you. Today, in a small fight, in order to be able to vote on the next measures, you also have a nominal allowance for the exceptional allowance. I wonder: If it were not nominal - and I am addressing all parties - would we not all vote 'yes'? Haven't we all said we're going to vote 'yes'? We have a different proposal on the criteria that should be given to low-pension workers, to the unemployed, to single-parent families, to what you are not interested in. You are giving it to pensioners without criteria, because there may indeed be many pensioners who do not have to receive it. But that's a help for some who need it. I wonder if tomorrow - and I address the Opposition - the explanations are given, will you vote or not? You'll vote for it. If we want to be consistent - and we are consistent - in our positions, we need to know that when the social dividend was given - and you do not want to become SYRIZA who was swearing and enslaving the allowance and in the uniforms, I remind you that we have given the uniforms an allowance, and even though we have thus disagreed with it as Democratic Incorporation, we have voted on it -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u498	You're welcome. To the stalks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u499	To the stalks. ...we gave our allowance for our disagreement. So today we come here to be consistent with our line, and we support the small pensioners. So, friends and friends, we don't change our position, because we're not blackmailing either of Shoebles or Mr. Tsipras. Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Siomple are feeding their homicide for their own reasons. For internal reasons, Mr. Shoeble in Germany and Mr. Tsipras in Greece. Because it wants after this little'revolution' and after selling absolutely hay in and out of Parliament, to bring the measures. The measures will come comrades of Panos Kammenos and you will vote for them either by the boulevard or without the boulevard, as the Prime Minister says. That's why we as Democratic Reconciliation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u500	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u501	Mr. Triantafylides, calm down. You'll vote for them. You will leave the chair with nothing, like the ministers will leave the chair with nothing. In a few days' time - and I address everyone - everything you say and any battles will have been forgotten. I would remind you that the Democratic Integration and the PSE also fought the same battle and was swept away. In the end, he was right. You will remember the Minister, who speaks of the Dutch, invokes European socialists. Before he came to the PSE to sign everything and accept everything, he had come to a television station that said, there are no more than four licenses. Then he came here and signed that all this was leaving Mr. Pappa and went to the PSE. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] That's how it's going to be in the next few days. That's why you're making a lot of fuss in order to be able to hide that in the next few days you will accept both the surpluses of 3.5% and 4.2 billion meters. We will be here, because with all the forces, progressives, we can make the big part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u502	Thank you. Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Mr President. I was told for at least ten minutes. Do I have five?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u504	Go ahead. The mermaid and for the sake of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u505	Okay, five. There's no need to waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u506	Give him time, because we've made him sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u507	You're not upsetting me, Mr. Javarra. Everyone is exposed as he wants in this Chamber and anywhere in society. But I'm staying with a question. Of course, Mr. Salmas retired with yesterday's acceptance. You don't keep him in front of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u508	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u509	What do you say, Minister? This is not a serious debate. You want this conversation to do it like this? You have a serious profile.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u510	Don't start. Mr. Salmas has retired...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u511	You had a serious profile.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u512	Come on! Take advantage of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u513	Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u514	Come on, Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u515	Mr. Salma, come on. The Minister wants you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u516	Remove my time and go to zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u517	So, if Mr. Salmas doesn't come, you won't speak, Minister? Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u518	But I couldn't start and see that time is running.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u519	Time is running.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u520	I understand that you have decided that in this way you react, I will stop talking. You think so. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u521	We're fucked!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u522	Your politeness is manifesting now. I said politically that I would expect the New Democracy decision to remain today. However, because it is not maintained and because Mr Salmas, without spins and without reservations, said yesterday that the New Democracy will vote in favour of our proposal, I am surprised that this is not the case today. I don't know. So let me wonder and want to understand what it is that caused you to change your position. I haven't figured that out yet. I have heard from another speaker earlier that we are moving a conflict between the parties within the country. That's what I heard. I'm surprised again. Vote all together that there is no conflict over the interests of the Greek people and the need for people who have actually suffered from deprivation in previous years to receive this allowance that the government offers. Do not conflict with a real need for people and do not say that this is a conflict between the parties. If you clash with that need, it's really something you're interested in seeing. I've heard several inaccuracies. For example, you say... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] It's okay. I'm indifferent to you, Mr. Teddy and Mr. Javarra. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u523	Minister, you're right. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u524	It's okay. But I heard you say - to correct - that we are stealing the EPPY to rebuild the damage, because we are not giving the money. They said so by other wings. Not to mention anyone and you find reason to speak again. You have said so, however, with a perception that has nothing to do with reality, first of all, because if you look at the sums due to the EEAS in previous years, you will see that this has happened - and indeed to large amounts - in the past. I told you yesterday and the day before yesterday not to repeat that we are legislating this supply to the ECA because they are old rules. In fact, the way you started yelling at me when I started speaking, in the same way you yelled at the Committee of Parliament, not to say what I am trying to prove to you today, is that it is law since 1992, Law 2084, which provides for supplies for benefits offered by the IKA, and it is also a 2014 law, which provides much more specifically for the participation of the EEAS and other bodies to the IKA for benefits they offer. Those provisions are therefore written down. Read them. I'm telling you, I don't have any experience in parliament, you guys who are parliamentary fathers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u525	Fathers, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u526	And grandparents, at least in relation to me, compatriot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u527	I wish you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u528	Thank you. Also, take and what the amounts that in the previous years - from 2012, 2013 and 2014 - were close to the 70 million - your government - were - if that were to be the case - the money - about 70 million a year - when we limit 2% - to a maximum of 50 million - on the basis of current prices - and we have paid to the EEA several million. I put forward the figures for the Minutes to keep them in mind. [[At this point the Deputy Minister, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Parliament Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] The references to this issue therefore have nothing to do with them. In any case, I understand that the Bureau will have something to do with me in advance - and with legislative improvements. These include the one concerning the observation. We did not need to, because in the law we say, "Where they don't change OLAF Temporary Services, they are maintained." Therefore, the technical section of Thessaloniki was maintained. However, because it was raised from the side of the Democratic Association topic for the technical services of the IKA, so EKA, we are going through a legislative improvement in Thessaloniki with an explicit prediction of this. I will also testify for the Practical and Legislative Improvement in relation to the increase in pensions for those who have paid heavy and unhealthy and are not leaving their Office earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u529	I also support an amendment on the payment of contributions by entities Legal persons of public law. It was planned for the Single Payments Authority to give it. A clear reference is made here to ensure that there are no technical issues of application, that every legal person, who employs staff, is obliged to pay the relevant contributions. This is a more specific amendment, and that is why we have done so, in order to implement properly on the basis of the information provided by the public information system. I conclude with the following: I do not understand why you do not want the ECA to succeed, which would be of particular honor to everyone, to see a social security institution, with complexity and difficulties in working, succeed in this country because we are really able to achieve it. You have some hesitation in giving support to a great effort that will actually bring benefits and benefits to the insured - first of all to the insured - to the pensioners. Saving will exist. The provision in the General Accounting Office of the State concerns the employment of members of the Legal Board of State, increasing by two legal advisers, four alternates and eight judicial representatives. That's all we've got to do. It's such a report. It has nothing to do with the operating costs of the FBI, but nothing to do with it. It is obvious that these savings and benefits will yield upon the completion of the functioning of the ECA. No service store is closing. All the stores are backed up. I can hear it coming as an echo of danger every day, that workers are going to be shut down and made redundant. In the most unequivocal way I say it again, there is no such matter. There's no such danger. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u530	So do we. First of all, we must say that around 18:30 the time has to make the roll-call vote. So 'we're running' to make the same management of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u531	At 6 p.m., Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u532	At 6 p.m. I agree. If you want, we'll see if we can. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u533	Mr President, we have our seconds too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u534	Okay. Mr Stoyannides is the last speaker. Here, Mr Stoyannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u535	Mr President, Mr Stoyannides is not the last speaker. We are four other speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u536	Calm down, Mrs. Papakosta. How long will it take, Mr. Stoyannides?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u537	Eight minutes, while the other speakers have taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today or rather we should actually discuss a very important draft law by the Ministry of Labour. Unfortunately, the issue has been moved elsewhere and there is a reference from all the speakers to the roll-call vote. And I, of course, will devote most of my speech there. But for this particular bill, I have to say it's a very important bill. He is organizing the prosperous state of Greece. Unfortunately, this organization has not come from previous governments for decades. It was unacceptable. This situation is coming to correct this particular bill. An article that I consider to be very important, among other things, is the abolition of the EUR 45 insanity for all the insured persons who go to the CSDP. Another important article also concerns workers who have been employed in work, but until now concessions have not been settled. Cases have been pending since 1978. For these people, then, it will be a final end to the matter, to be sure that these houses are theirs. So let me come to the roll-call vote on the amendment to the allowance that we give to a million six hundred thousand low pensioners. The roll-call vote, as you know, is a legitimate procedure of the House. The Vice-Presidents of the House last year - and rightly so - exercise this right by putting a roll-call vote on many bills, which have been here and which we Members are voting on. The roll-call vote gives the right to vote responsiblely. We are responsible for it. So we now, by roll-call vote to all Members of Parliament, have the opportunity to place themselves responsible for whether the government should pay this allowance to the low-wage pensioners or whether it should not. Because without the roll-call vote some Members hide behind the party rapporteurs. It's clear. While the New Democracy until yesterday said 'yes' to the amendment, it changed with the roll-call vote. I don't understand that. They should explain it to us. To date, the explanations they gave are not convincing. Let them explain it to the Greek people. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, in a meeting with President of the European Parliament Martin Schultz, pointed out that, firstly, it is necessary to find a solution for the good of all of Europe as soon as possible in a period of uncertainty. Secondly, with regard to primary surpluses, there can be a compromise at 2.5% plus 1%. Mr. Chakalotos mentioned this. The International Monetary Fund should decide whether it should know that Greece means Europe and therefore collective negotiations and not new measures. Fourthly, the Greek Government's right is the measures to support society that are not violating the programme and not jeopardising the objectives. The President of the European Parliament agreed that a solution could be found with the proposal for primary surpluses of 2.5% plus 1%. As to the support measures, Mr. Schultz was on a Moscovisi line. I'll read you after what Mr. Moscovisi said. He said: 'It is incomprehensible for there to be a problem for these reasons that will jeopardise all of Europe'. He stressed that a solution must be found at the latest in January. That's what Mr. Schultz said. I will read to you what Mr Moskovis said, if you do not know them: 'In my eyes the terms of the Eurogroup agreement have not changed from the measures decided by Mr Tsipras's government. European Commissioner Pierre Moscovici's statement at the French AFP Agency restores reality and contrasts with the extremes trying to create a problem in the negotiation." Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras had a meeting with European Commissioner Pierre Moscovisi. The European Commissioner reiterated that only one country raises a matter of social support measures decided by the Greek Government and expressed the conviction that this is in breach of the agreement, which, in any case, provided for the immediate return of short-term debt measures immediately after the assessment. The Commissioner re-printed to the Prime Minister the assessment that it is the Greek Government's right, as it has no impact on the objectives of the agreement, the social redistribution of the revenue overturn. Let me read to you a few parts of the Prime Minister's position at the Preparatory Session of the Party of European Socialists: In this context, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. However, we are faced with the harsh attitude of extreme circles, which have in mind the idea of division in Europe. There is no controversy between the Member States. There is ideological and political controversy. It is not Europe's attitude to countries with progressive governments, such as Greece, Italy and Portugal, and to countries with conservative governments. Greece cannot be condemned to constant austerity and cannot remain outside the European acquis in relation to collective bargaining. Will the New Democracy finally tell us its position on collective bargaining? It is a sovereign right for the Greek Government to share socially with the public the overpayment of budgetary revenues to the low-pensions, especially when it does not violate the objectives of the programme. Those seeking to postpone the implementation of the Eurogroup decision on short-term Greek debt measures are violating the agreement. The completion of the second assessment of the Greek programme as soon as possible is essential for the stability of the whole of Europe. It is necessary to keep the window of opportunity with Turkey open. We look forward to European support for the Cyprus issue and, of course, to the active presence of the European Union at the final stage of the negotiations." Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis and his party act as a fifth pillar within the country, representing lenders. They are not interested in anything but their vengeful return to power, giving certificates of submissiveness to the extremes who want the country to sink into the chaos of austerity and poverty. The roll-call vote in the House draws up two alternatives to Mr.Mitsotakis: Or vote against the support of the low-pensioners and suspending the increase in VAT on the islands, politely declaring his view. If, however, the New Democracy decides to do the same thing, to vote for the social support measures, then dare not go back to the derailment of the programme from this government option. According to the statements made by the European Commissioner, Mr Moskovis at the French Agency, the terms of the Eurogroup agreement have not changed from the measures decided by the Government of Mr Tsipras. The New Democracy is accusing us of homicide. I ask New Democracy: is Pierre Moscovici a SYRIZA, or supports the homicide of SYRIZA, as the ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy claim? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I invite you at the last minute to support the positions of the Greek Government along with those who support us in Europe and not those who are against the Greek Government and thus with the financially impoverished Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u538	Mr. Dimitrios Stamattis has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u539	For how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u540	For four minutes, so is the proposed dentology. You can also speak from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u541	But it's not about dentology, it's about protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u542	You have registered after the fourth speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u543	We normally registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u544	After the fourth speaker. Mr. Stamatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u545	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a subject today, but essentially two. The allowance to the pensioners and the VAT freeze on the islands. Let's see one of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u546	The "frozen"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u547	I say what we are really talking about in this House, because both are issues of the Prime Minister's announcement. So we are talking about the allowance and not about the thirteenth pension. The first lie. A government that wants to be trustworthy does not use falsified characterizations. It means he's trying to cheat. We therefore have an allowance, once paid, not a pension permanently paid. However, the question is: yesterday we told the House that we would vote on it. It also appeared from the current positions of Members of other parties. What has changed your attitude? What made you ask for a roll-call vote? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I'll tell you about Mr. Shoeble, don't worry. I heard Mr Voutsi, the President of Parliament, a moment ago. I wonder: Did all the bills here go through the roll-call procedure? In other words, a unanimous decision taken according to the standard of ordinary votes on what changed things? So you must explain what is behind the roll-call vote you are asking for and not us. We say yes to the allowance, not extortion and deception. That's what you're charging her. And because I heard PASOK ask questions, I tell you that our position has not changed, ladies and gentlemen, at all. On the contrary, you have today the same argument that we have and you have come to a different conclusion. While you said that this is a deception, while you said it was unacceptable, that it serves Mr Tsipras' communication needs, you are dragging behind the communication needs of Mr Tsipras and you are accepting the proposal for a roll-call vote. Now we're going to the same allowance, so we can see the essence of it. Don't you tell me, gentlemen of the government, this allowance from where it came from, what surplus? For there to be a surplus, it means either we have growth or we put taxes and we cut incomes. We had growth and we didn't know? We had two consecutive years of recession. Where did the surpluses come from? Taxes and the reduction of incomes and pensions. That's why retired people are on the streets and they tell you 'flying you are giving us over the people you cut us'. That's the reality, merciful! I'll give you one more proof of how gracious you are. In 2015, ladies and gentlemen, we had an increase in the poverty index. In 2014, we had a 7.1% de-escalation. In 2015 you had plus 8%. In 2015, there was a decrease of 5,5 billion in family consumption expenditure. This is your success, because if the poor Greek had money, it would go to consumption. The reduction in consumption by 5.5 billion shows the size of the deception of the Greek people and the pain caused by you. Let go of the social-state fairy tales and social-government stories. Let's go to VAT and the islands. Do you not tell me, ladies and gentlemen, did you not vote for this? Didn't you vote in May when we said it was wrong? Didn't you vote for the budget five days ago? Is this revenue not included in the budget? What changed in five days and you want to change it? Can you tell us? You're accountable and accused, and you don't change the roles. A party, a government calling for consensus, Mr. Ministers, does not curse the leader of the military opposition "Enaltis" and "fifty buckle" of the opposition officer's party. Are we returning the designations, and if you'd been watching the last few days, would you hear Mr. Varoufakis saying - do you hear him or do you not hear him? - that Mr. Shoeble is your partner, not our partner. Mr. Shoeble set a target to drop the government, Mr. Varoufakis said. Yeah, but who threw her? You along with the ANELs and the Golden Dawn in this Chamber. You shot her. You executed the Siomple Plan. This is the reality that has been recorded and does not change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u548	Finish, Mr. Stamatis, because it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u549	So why are you changing patterns now? I do not know what you have in mind, and we do not allow you to use our vote and signature in white. You should have enough, if you were good intentions, in yesterday's statement that we are voting on it. The intervention to go to today's vote is something else that hides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u550	Please, Mr. Stamatis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u551	And beyond that, you promised...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u552	Mr. Stopatis, time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u553	We said eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u554	We're in seven minutes, how much longer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u555	You do not have to interrupt me, Mr President, I would have finished. Mr Tsipras had set three objectives, ladies and gentlemen. That the evaluation would be closed in time. The assessment did not close 5 December. You said you would go ahead with a debt reduction. Debt has not been settled. You've accepted crumbs. And you said, too, that you would achieve a reduced surplus. Tell me what you are talking about, did you forget that your government signed them? On 9 September in this Chamber I submitted the supplementary memorandum, which said beyond the other two things. One was that you accepted a 3.5% surplus over the next ten years and the second was that you were under an obligation, if there was a primary surplus, to make 30% available after consultation with the lenders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u556	Mr. Stamatis, we have reached the special speaker's time. It doesn't go any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u557	I filed it. You, ladies and gentlemen, complaining to me - I asked the government to present it - do you not have the curiosity to see what that says? Your government signed this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u558	You're done, Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u559	I'm closing, Mr. President. You're the last ones who can blame us for agreeing with the lenders. You took back what you promised and signed what we refused. You signed the superstition, which means commitment of national property.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u560	Mr. Stopatis, time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u561	You signed off the banks, and you're accountable for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u562	Time is long over. Don't make me interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u563	In any case, as Mr Diaselblum says, Mr. Tsipras has so far been the most convenient Prime Minister in Greece. I'm giving you that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u564	Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor. He's not here. Ms. Papakosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u565	Mr President, today we have experienced infinitely good scenes. Ladies and gentlemen, the House cannot be happy about the climate and how this debate took place. But I am opposed to it because we have even more essential things that I regret and regret. I would like to say to my dear colleagues that populism was in Aristotle's interest, especially in his rhetoric, when he was trying to teach his students and therefore to the citizens how to avoid and deal with deception techniques. As in Progoras and Socrates you will see how political virtue is taught. These are very important issues which are missing, and this is a great crisis of moral and worthy prospects for the Greek Parliament and for the Greek political world. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, you have all said before and I will join in what has been said by government officials, ministers of this government and members of parliament, that both Sulz and Moscovici are helping the country's position. I fully attach myself to this point of view. I am linking it to the deception technique now, and I am asking, directly, the government side, which had the initiative to put the issue under roll-call vote on: Since, therefore, we are on the Moscovisi line and therefore the measures are measures on the Moscovisi line, since we have the support that really helps the country, why, and with what philosophy has it come here today, like - as in the way that this amendment has come here, which, instead of uniting the Greek Parliament and the Greek political world, divides it? I think I can, according to Aristotle's technique to avoid deceiving techniques, conclude that you are acting like evil politicians and not as intelligent politicians, who want support from the country. In this sense, because we are not naive politicians and New Democracy is an institutional party, it refuses to participate in the process and in the political thinking of this proposal, not in substance. We are in fact positive and you have had the statement of will, which was positive and which was addressed to everyone, urbi et orbi, both inside and outside the country. Mr President, I took the floor and wanted to focus on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u566	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u567	You're welcome, Mr. President. Recall in class, because we need to learn to talk here and respect each other. It has brought the Ministry of Health, through the Minister responsible, two amendments, which have been accepted, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to take this opportunity to say, because I wonder how we legislate each time. One is Ministerial and another Member of Parliament, accepted by the present ministers, who are also responsible for the legislative initiative. So with regard to the amendment tabled by Mr Paulakis, which is too late, as is the parliamentary amendment, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House, Mr President, and I would ask that the consequences, when there are delayed amendments, be brought about by respect between you and us. The standard is that the Ministerial and Parliamentary amendment is too late. I get over it and I get into it. So, in fact, there are a lot of provisions that have been expressly expressed. For example, the Minister of Health brings an amendment and calls for an extension to enable the National School of Public Health to stand by administrative and financially. And my question is: Why does it get extended? What has he done so long and has he not been able to ensure the administrative and financial autonomy of the ECHR? The term of office of the former commander and Deputy Commander shall be extended automatically until the appointment of a new commander and a new deputy commander. The question is why, since there is a regulatory framework, which defines and happens in these cases and there is no problem. A third, which I would like to point out, is this: Is the Ministry of Health trying to ask why. I want them to tell us the cost-benefit theory. If it benefits the Greek State, they must tell us that it benefits the Greek public, measurable, costing or harming it and also harming it, so that I can understand that there is damage to the Greek public and vote against it. Doesn't he bring it to us, and what's he asking? It calls for an extension of the supply contracts for the PSOs and PTSs under the same conditions and conditions as those applicable, i.e. without a tender. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Price Observatory has dropped prices and I ask: will there be a party at prices with this provision?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u568	Come on, Mrs. Papakosta, because your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u569	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Finally, I have no opposition - and I imagine anyone in Ethiopia - to pay overtime, night work, the excellent working days of the staff of the ESS and EAW hospitals. But it also says on-calls at the General Hospital of Kilkis. From the special report, which has signed - and I shall end, Mr President - it bears the signatures of the Tsakalotou - Xanthos, I see that on the budgets of the hospitals...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u570	Come on, let's get it over with. Your time's long over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u571	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u572	Don't make me remove your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u573	If you hadn't interrupted me, I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u574	It's graceless. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u575	Please don't interrupt me. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u576	Don't I interrupt when your time's been over for two and a half minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u577	When you're disturbed by what the MPs say, you're interrupting us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u578	That's a reversal of roles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u579	Just a minute, Mr President, to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u580	Please get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u581	Hold on to my vacation, and I'll be in my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u582	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u583	It provides for additional expenditure of EUR 6.8 million, covered by hospital credits and for Kilkis General Hospital EUR 213,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u584	Please, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u585	I have no objections, but Mr Tsakalotos must come and say whether he will increase the budget of the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u586	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u587	One more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, how did you accept a parliamentary amendment that puts doctors at two speeds? How will you divide the contracted subsidiary, the NRP subsidiary with the hospital subsidiary?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u588	Mrs. Papacosta...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u589	And why don't you ask the doctors who work in Athens and Piraeus to fill the gaps, if you're talking about equal treatment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u590	Mrs. Papacosta, can you hear me? Your time's up. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u591	I am sorry, Mr President, for what this government is doing here, and I would remind you that Mr Tsipras had said about the 500 million dividends that he is committed. Today it is imperative. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u592	Mrs. Jufi, do you want the floor now or in the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u593	Now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u594	When will the vote be taken?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u595	Whenever the speakers decide. Mrs Papacosta decided before that the time had to be extended. Let's see what the rest of you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u596	How many more are there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u597	About five. Please, Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u598	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are almost at the end of a difficult debate and it was said almost before the previous speaker, Mr Stamatis, that the point has been lost, in essence. What we are voting on today is a bill that most people recognised as moving in a positive direction and coming to resolve and support critical aspects of the social state, but also vulnerable social groups. I believe that it has been formulated by most, both the institutions that had come and the colleagues, that it is moving in the right direction. The climate has become explosive, I would say above all under the responsibility of the Major Opposition, which has been chosen today, but also in the past days, by conscious polarization. However, I believe that the voices, the insulting expressions and even the deception of 'who are you and what work you do' and the aggression is, unfortunately, to hide the real political agenda, but also the panic of the choice not to vote on this particular amendment, which can really give relief and strengthen the low pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, at first you spoke of the government's election trick - it was not believed - and then of a communication firework, a trick. This line, apparently, didn't work. Then you spoke about crustaceans, when you really had no problem - to remember a little - to cut off the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, the thirteenth and the fourth wages. Nor did you have any reservations about falling down on the country's GDP by 25%, increasing unemployment to 27% and with the policies you have implemented to destroy eight hundred thousand jobs, leading thousands of people to poverty and social exclusion. Nor did you have any inhibitors in the decommissioning of the social state, leading to health, education, insurance and welfare at a critical point of balance, which we are trying very hard to bring back. However, in discussing the issue of the day, I must say that you were concerned, unfortunately, as you did in other bills, for example the humanitarian crisis or the parallel programme that you mentioned here today, first on behalf of the hard people of Berlin and the Eurogroup before they were able to worry. In fact, Mr Barriots reminded us today that it was a similar day last year, where he came by voices and said that we are once again violating the agreed arrangements and withdrawing what was then called a parallel programme. Mr Barriots did not recall the following, however, that he was normally voted on by the Greek Parliament, like the bill on the humanitarian crisis, which took place and which benefited from four hundred thousand of our fellow people who were in great need. So while I think it is clear and visible in many ways that the dividend, which we are trying to make with this amendment today, is the result of the overcompensation of revenue, but which also includes non-measurable measures, you insist that the agreement with the lenders is disputed, probably because some of you say 'no' for the next day, unfortunately choosing once again not to support measures that relieve or even - to agree with you - give an economic breath to those affected by the crisis. There can of course be a very long debate here, that it could be differently shared, but that is not what we are talking about today. Unfortunately, Potami, along with the New Democracy, also chooses this direction, even though he has singed two or three words today about 'bad strangers'. On the other hand, despite the reluctance of the Democratic Complaint, I think we should welcome its decision to support this amendment, but also the bill with substantial interventions, as I would also say the country's substantial support, which I think forms the internal scene of social democracy, both at the level of the European Parliament and at the level of the Community. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are witnessing the narcotic environment that is trying to create again from the leadership of the European Union. However, our country has fulfilled all the commitments resulting from the 2015 summer agreement. However, we are still faced with the harsh attitude of extreme circles, which have, they have and will probably have the idea of division in Europe. Will we allow that, ladies and gentlemen? In particular, only the German side asked to see the institution report on whether social support measures are compatible with the agreement, while all the other countries were in favour. For our part, we emphasise to all tones that it is the Greek Government's sovereign right to distribute socially justly - I said here that there may be other points of view - the overcompensation of budgetary revenue, especially when the objectives are not compromised. That is why European support at European level for Olad, Moscovisi, Schulz and a series of leaders of the European Union in the Greek Government is typical of the obstacles that Germany and Mr Shoeble once again put on the table. We are sure that in the end there will be a positive decision and the process will be undone, even if there is to be a slight delay. Because this is minor and does not cause any problem. At the same time, we remain firmly opposed to austerity measures in advance and again categorically state that Greece has not accepted any primary surpluses of 3.5% for ten years after the end of the programme. In fact, today, it is indicative that the texts originally used have been withdrawn and other texts have appeared. We also state very emphatically that Greece cannot remain outside the European acquis in relation to collective bargaining. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat a reflection. When the Commission not only denounces Greece, but keeps away from the hardest voices of austerity and when it is clear that we have not violated any rule, why should opposition forces question our inalienable right to legislate in favour of the weak, in favour of the social state and, finally, the broad social majority? Did they give credentials to creditors, identified with their hardest opinions? Are they trying to give examples of writing of a future governance, when they imagine that this moment can come, plunging into the views expressed, that 'we can implement other measures as many as possible', as the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Georgiadis, recently said, of a governance which obviously predicts the harsh attack on the wide social strata, these strata that led you after many years of power in the chairs of the Anti-Population? We will not allow them and the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, will not allow them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u599	Thank you, too. Mr. Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u600	Ladies and gentlemen, in the roll-call vote, I will follow the majority of the Group of the Democratic Alliance, to whom I have expressed my opinion, in order to safeguard the unity of the party and to exhaust the possibilities of unification of the wider progressive medium-sized area. But we are faced with a provocative, unprecedented attempt to alter parliamentary procedures. The government's request is not to vote in favour of the one-off provision to some pensioners because they had already accepted it on their own grounds all the parties. It is a question of creating the false impression that there is supposedly a wider front for supporting the choices and manipulations of the government. That's not true. There are no collaborators and accomplices in the opposition, especially in the Democratic Reconciliation. Of course, first of all, this concerns the speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has harmed and seriously harmed the country. He plays in one of those players. What's actually happening? The government is testing two scenarios. The first is the mild scenario that I will call it 'the crumbs of diversion', some one-off measures towards pensioners, who will then lose much more through further reductions in main pensions and reduction in duty-free. This is the bait, in order to be voted on with relative comfort very hard measures linked to the second assessment. After all, what has been suspended by the European institutions is the so-called'short-term debt measures', which will yield in the long term, in 2060 something trim - if they pay off - 40 billion. Nothing in front of what happened in 2012! The second assessment has not been suspended and in this mild scenario it will come to be voted on by harsh budgetary measures by deceiving MPs, but also by deceiving citizens, who will think that something has been taken, and many have lost. I would say that this scenario is also the most painless, but it requires something, that a compromise will immediately be reached with the European partners and institutions, which will not humiliate the government, will not force it to withdraw, that is to say, the current measures, which are thus a symbolic political one. But there is also a second scenario, the tough scenario, the break-up scenario, once again blackmailing democratic and parliamentary institutions. Only it's all repetition now, so prank. I am not necessarily referring to a new anti-constitutional referendum, but to a referendum in a sense that will attempt to unite a contradictory anti-European, populist front, in the name of total national destruction. Only these are ‘swine grapes’ and are not to arise as scripts. There are, of course, some European socialists and social democrats who say otherwise in public, but they do as government and others vote at the European Council and at the Eurogroup, who think they encourage the Greek people, and encourage the absolute persecution of the government and Prime Minister personally. They harm the Greek economy because they create false impressions about European correlations. And you know where that turns out? In the major problem of the Agreement of 20 February 2015. At that time, the European partners did not ask for ratification from the House. If they were calling for ratification by Parliament then, the country would not sink into the tragic period of February - July 2015, we did not have these budgetary and macroeconomic consequences that we have and will have for years, the change in the dynamics of debt, the derailment of the economy, the national withdrawal. This must not happen again, and everyone must remember the history of this difficult period. The country is not going anywhere, it has no prospect. We are sinking in Memorandum 3 plus with the International Monetary Fund, because the government has lost to negotiating both on the side of the fund and on the side of the European institutions, the Eurogroup. We were united in a negotiation which was taking place in the absence of us, without knowing what we are asking for. The result? We have already committed ourselves to a Memorandum 4, indefinitely after 2018, with tough budgetary measures, without a favourable loan and without guaranteed funding. The country doesn't have a banking system. You see what happened to the National Bank, what's happening to Piraeus Bank. Supervision has been given in full not to foreign institutions, but to individuals in the end that we do not know about. It has no strategy, no foreign and security policy. I hope that some will not involve major, historically and nationally important issues, such as the Cyprus issue, by making the supplements to an artificial breakthrough, if the second of the two scenarios I have spoken about are chosen. The only solution is elections, the change of relations, a new government of extensive cooperation between democratic European forces, with the defeated SYRIZA being called on to participate. We hope she accepts it and does not climb the tiles of antimony demagogue. The main thing, however, is to realise that there are some things about the fate of the place with which no one can play, things that are not players. And what is now a common conscience, a common belief is that the place needs to be renegotiated in order to obtain a financial breathing space against reforms, it can only do one government that is credible internationally, is reliable internally and has faith in what it does. Well, these conditions don't exist. Your stay in power aggravates the damage. You have a national responsibility to take dismissal initiatives. Being caught in power is a temporary pleasure at a high national cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u601	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committees of Public Administration, Public Order and Economic Affairs are tabling their report in the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Governmental Code, Administrative Justice, Fees - Paradoxically, Voluntary disclosure of undeclared income, Electronic transactions, Amendments to Law 4270/2014 and other provisions". Mr. Pschakis has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u602	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is bringing a little to the vote for a suspension regulation - a freeze in VAT only on the islands of the north-eastern and south-eastern Aegean, which are suffering from the well-known crisis that you have created. You should know that not only are our islands facing the problem of increased migratory flows, but Evros also accepts daily a large number of qualified refugees and economic migrants, as almost five hundred and six hundred people are illegally crossing our land and sea borders. The government did not deal with the issue, instead preferred, in response to the strong refugee - immigration problem we are facing, the abolition - of border guarding sections such as Tychorus, while Evros has turned into a host and detention tank of large volumes of migrants and refugees. It would be from your Government and a high symbolism move for Evros, move into legislation and reduce VAT, since our region is at the heart of threatening statements and cries. So we call on you to seriously consider the matter at the last minute and with due sensitivity, as necessary, and to adopt our proposal and not exclude us. I believe that all the wings of this House will vote in favour of our proposal, which is absolutely fair and reasonable and you must not leave all the locusts of Evros with complaints. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u603	Thank you for managing time too. Mr Emmanuelides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u604	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dependence on passion is disastrous both for the individual and for the social side. In this regard, the expressions of the systemic parties of the New Democracy and PASOK, often family-rights and not rightfully, were for decades dependent on passion of power. With the elections in Genoa in 2015, however, realising the loss of power of their own "Alexandria", they were inevitably led to a custodial syndrome. The most common symptom of seditional syndrome is hallucinations and delirium, the "adone" reason, with the word differentiated or unorthodoxly the "adonius". What happened? All the guilt these two parties suffered, which, in their policy, destroyed a society and a country, put them on the opposing side. All those criminal acts in economic, political and social fields found an easy depository and they were no more than SYRIZA. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us finally speak with clear words. How can you give up on us and what things? On ethical management? On social analgesia? What about the financial management of a memorandum that you brought in and we were called upon to manage? Tell us, at last, beyond the obsessive and delusional word of 'you are useless, are you dangerous', which is based on the risk element of economic, social and, above all, - and that is what matters - moral indicators? Because that's the project of politics. It's a project for us. It's a risk when something's at stake. When it's unnecessarily negotiable, then it's a project. Finally, do you realize that it is not possible to speak with polls that are a photograph of the moment, but with a very blunt picture, because when we have a 20% -25% undeclared vote, that is where we all need to think. We, aware of our social and above all historical speech, tell you - and I address society - that this coherent thread with society will not give you that. It is not because society needs a clear reason, much more than a purely political act.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u605	Mr Ursouzidis Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u606	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I'll be done in two minutes. Honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in a society that has been plagued by brutal economic measures, completely incomplete, punishable as many people have now acknowledged, it is time for Greek citizens to finally enjoy - I am talking about the low-pensions - 617 million euros, which are above the targets set by the government this year. They concern people who obviously need to be biomassed - obviously not to save themselves, because this word does not exist in the vocabulary of Greek citizens - and to help the unemployed who are members of their families. Unfortunately, this reality has existed in the country in recent years and it is absolutely necessary for these people to feel that the state is thinking and has a primary concern about how to help them meet the demands of life. The second measure concerns the suspension of the VAT measure on the islands of the north-eastern Aegean. Because I happen to communicate with Mytilini because that is where my two children are studying, I know very well the cost that this island has been charged by the migration flow it receives from the Turkish coast. I think there is no citizen in the European Union - and I refer to the peoples of Europe - who do not recognise that these two measures are absolutely necessary for Greek citizens. I would also like to mention the fact that EUR 760 million from the recently voted budget relates to measures of a social nature, measures that the Greek society needs to help people who are unable to respond and EUR 100 million have been provided for the protection of first residence. I would remind you that the EUR 100 million corresponds to the 1/3 of the amount charged to the Greek people as debts to your parties. It was heard by colleagues saying: How can we talk about surpluses and where did these surpluses come from when the bad winter people suffer and pay great taxes? I'll tell you my version of where the surpluses came from. We have been running for two years, without giving any right of reference to financial scandals. So the surpluses may be due to the fact that financial scandals have been missing from our lives. The unnecessary costs of the Greek State were also missing. I am referring in particular to the Ministry of Health, where we are all witnessing initiatives that expose previous administrations, as they exercised power. Finally, I would like to say that this measure may not be permanent. However, if we continue with this respect in the fight against Greek citizens, it also has permanent features. What the rulers know well, as do the Members who support this government, is that the Greek people recognize us before all the fact that we have respected their fighting and lost their lives in the last two years what they called a conflict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u607	Thank you, too. The debate on the articles, amendments and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is adjourned: "National Instrument for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, Regulations on Social Solidarity and Applicable Provisions of Law No.4387/2016 (A'85) and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for the roll-call vote of SYRIZA Members on Rule 65, the text of which is as follows: Changing p. To enter page 408a Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u608	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Thraniotis Emmanuel. Here you go. Mrs. Jufi Merope. Here. Mrs. Gara Anastasia. Here. Mr. Ursouzidis George. Here you go. Mrs. Theophebetto Aphrodite. Here. Mr. Madas Christos. Here you go. Mr. Mitafidis Rose. Here you go. Mrs. Trollerite Maria. Here. Mr. Stoyannides Gregory. Here you go. Mr. Antoniou Christos. Here you go. Mr. Vettas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Syrian Antony. Here you go. Mr. Caesa Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Karayannis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Treasury John. Here you go. Mr. Emmanoulidis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Manios Nikolaos. Here you go. Mrs. Triantafle Maria. Here. Mr. Arachovitis Stavros. Here you go. Mr. Seltsas Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Dr. Theodoros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourning our meeting for ten (10') minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u609	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on Article 65 of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: “National Instrument for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, Provisions on Social Solidarity and Application of Law No.4387/2016 (A'85) and other provisions”. I propose during the counting for the outcome to proceed with voting on the remaining articles in the bill. The acceptances of Article 65 say 'THE'. Those who fail to accept Article 65 shall be referred to as 'OHIM'. The voters say 'PARON'. They are called on the list: Mrs Anastasia Gara by SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on the report by their colleagues. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u610	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes. [[The letters referred to above are entered in the Minutes and are as follows:]] Changing p. To enter pages 414-423 Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u611	I would also like to inform you that my fellow Members, and others. Eleni Zaroulia, Christos Hadjisavvas, Andreas Michalidis, Elena Raptis, Anna Karamanlis, Konstantinos Vlasi, Simos (Simos) Kedicoglou, Stavros Kalafatis, Ioannis Kefaliannis, George Koumotsakos, Vasilios Kikilis, Konstantinos Kongogeorgios, Christos Boukos, Christos Stakoras, Fotinis genomes, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Konstantinos Al. Karamanlis will not be present in today's roll-call vote and they are aware of us by letter of their vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes. [[The letters referred to above are entered in the Minutes and are as follows:]] Changing p. Let the pages in. 425-441 Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u612	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Until the count is taken and the result is obtained, we enter the vote on the other articles, which will be done separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u615	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u619	The Independent Greeks and the Centroon Association are absent. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u622	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u626	The Independent Greeks and the Centroon Association are absent. Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u629	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u631	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u633	The Independent Greeks and the Centroon Association are absent. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u636	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u638	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u640	The Independent Greeks and the Centroon Association are absent. Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u645	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u647	The Independent Greeks and the Centroon Association are absent. Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u649	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u653	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u654	The Independent Greeks and the Centroon Association are absent. Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u656	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u662	The Centro Association is missing. Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u664	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u666	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u667	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u670	The Centro Association is missing. Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u676	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u678	The Centro Association is missing. Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u683	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u686	The Centro Association is missing. Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u691	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u694	The Centro Association is missing. Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u699	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u702	The Centro Association is missing. Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u705	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u710	The Centro Association is missing. Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u718	The Centro Association is missing. Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u721	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u723	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u726	The Centro Association is missing. Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u734	The Centro Association is missing. Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u737	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u738	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u739	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u742	The Centro Association is missing. Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u745	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u750	The Centro Association is missing. Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u755	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u758	The Centro Association is missing. Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u761	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u766	The Centro Association is missing. Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u771	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u772	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u774	The Centro Association is missing. Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u777	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u782	The Centro Association is missing. Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u785	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u786	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u790	The Centro Association is missing. Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u793	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u795	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u798	The Centro Association is missing. Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u801	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u802	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u803	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u804	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u806	The Centro Association is missing. Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u809	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u810	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u811	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u812	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u814	The Centro Association is missing. Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u816	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u817	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u819	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u822	The Centro Association is missing. Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u823	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u827	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u828	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u830	The Centro Association is missing. Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u832	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u833	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u834	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u835	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u836	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u838	The Centro Association is missing. Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u840	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u842	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u843	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u846	The Centro Association is missing. Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u848	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u849	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u850	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u851	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u852	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u854	The Centro Association is missing. Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u856	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u857	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u858	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u859	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u860	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u862	The Centro Association is missing. Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 33 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u864	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u865	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u866	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u867	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u868	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u870	The Centro Association is missing. Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 34 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u872	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u873	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u874	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u875	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u876	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u878	The Centro Association is missing. Article 34 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 35 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u880	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u881	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u882	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u883	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u884	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u886	The Centro Association is missing. Article 35 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u888	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u889	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u890	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u891	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u892	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u894	The Centro Association is missing. Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u896	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u897	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u898	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u899	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u900	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u902	The Centro Association is missing. Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 38 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u904	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u905	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u906	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u907	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u908	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u910	The Centro Association is missing. Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 39 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u912	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u913	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u914	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u915	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u916	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u918	The Centro Association is missing. Article 39 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u920	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u921	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u922	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u923	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u924	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u926	The Centro Association is missing. Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 41 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u927	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u928	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u929	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u930	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u931	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u932	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u934	The Centro Association is missing. Article 41 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 42 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u935	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u936	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u937	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u939	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u940	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u941	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u942	The Centro Association is missing. Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u943	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u944	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u945	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u946	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u947	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u948	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u949	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u950	The Centro Association is missing. Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u952	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u953	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u954	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u955	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u956	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u957	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u958	The Centro Association is missing. Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 45 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u959	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u960	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u961	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u962	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u963	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u964	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u965	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u966	The Centro Association is missing. Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u967	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u968	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u969	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u970	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u971	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u972	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u974	The Centro Association is missing. Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u975	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u976	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u977	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u978	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u979	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u980	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u981	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u982	The Centro Association is missing. Article 47 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u984	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u985	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u986	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u987	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u988	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u989	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u990	The Centro Association is missing. Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u992	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u993	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u994	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u995	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u996	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u998	The Centro Association is missing. Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u999	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1000	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1001	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1002	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1003	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1004	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1005	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1006	The Centro Association is missing. Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1007	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1008	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1009	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1010	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1011	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1012	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1013	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1014	The Centro Association is missing. Article 51 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1015	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1016	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1017	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1018	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1019	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1020	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1021	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1022	The Centro Association is missing. Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1024	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1026	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1027	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1028	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1029	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1030	The Centro Association is missing. Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1031	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1032	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1033	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1034	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1035	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1036	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1037	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1038	The Centro Association is missing. Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1039	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1040	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1041	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1042	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1043	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1044	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1046	The Centro Association is missing. Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1047	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1048	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1049	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1050	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1051	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1052	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1053	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1054	The Centro Association is missing. Article 56 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1055	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1056	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1057	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1059	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1060	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1061	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1062	The Centro Association is missing. Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1064	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1065	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1066	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1067	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1068	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1069	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1070	The Centro Association is missing. Article 58 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1071	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1072	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1073	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1074	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1075	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1076	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1077	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1078	The Centro Association is missing. Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1079	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1080	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1081	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1082	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1083	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1084	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1085	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1086	The Centro Association is missing. Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1087	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1088	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1089	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1090	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1091	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1092	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1093	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1094	The Centro Association is missing. Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1095	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1096	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1097	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1098	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1099	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1100	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1102	The Centro Association is missing. Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 63 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1104	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1105	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1106	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1107	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1108	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1110	The Centro Association is missing. Article 63 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1112	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1113	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1114	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1115	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1116	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1118	The Centro Association is missing. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Post page 478a]] Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1119	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on Rule 65. A total of 257 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 196 Members. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. 61 Members voted in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1120	So, ladies and gentlemen, Article 65 has been accepted as it is by a majority. We shall now vote on the remaining articles. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1122	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1123	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1126	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1128	The Centro Association is missing. Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 803 and a special number 55 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1130	Oh, no. Mr President, we say 'no' to the amendments, because some of the parliamentary amendments are not costed by the General Accounting Office of the State and others, ministerialmen, are irrelevant to the bill. We do not all vote on this argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1131	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1136	The Centro Association is missing. Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 803 and a special 55 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 804 and a special number 56 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1144	The Centro Association is missing. The amendment under a general number 804 and a special 56 were therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 805 and a special number 57 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1146	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1152	The Centro Association is missing. Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 805 and a special 57 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number of 806 and a special number 58 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1154	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1155	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1160	The Centro Association is missing. Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 806 and a special 58 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 807 and a special number 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1166	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1168	The Centro Association is missing. Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 807 and a special 59 was accepted as it is unanimous and is part of the bill as the same article. Can the House accept the amendment under a general number 810 and a special number 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1170	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1171	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1176	The Centro Association is missing. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 810 and a special 61 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 814 and a special 65 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1178	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1179	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1184	The Centro Association is missing. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 814 and a special 65 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 818 and a special number 68 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1186	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1187	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1189	Here you go. Mr President, I would like to say on this amendment that, if paragraph 12 came as a separate amendment, we would vote 'yes'. Now, because they are all thirteen paragraphs together, we will vote 'at present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1192	The Centro Association is missing. The amendment, by a general number 818 and a special 68, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 821 and a special number 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1194	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1195	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1197	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1198	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1200	The Centro Association is missing. So the amendment under general number 821 and a special 71 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 800 and a special number 52 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1202	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1203	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1206	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1208	The Centro Association is missing. The amendment, by a general number 800 and a special 52, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 799 and a special number 51 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1213	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1216	The Centro Association is missing. The amendment, by a general number 799 and a special number 51, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 801 and a special number 53 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1218	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1219	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1224	The Centro Association is missing. Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 801 and a special 53 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 809 and a specialist of 60?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1227	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1232	The Centro Association is missing. The amendment, by a general number 809 and a special 60, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Can the House accept the amendment under a general number 811 and a special number 62 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1234	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1240	The Centro Association is missing. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 811 and a special 62 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 812 and a special number 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1248	The Centro Association is missing. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 812 and a special 63 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 817 and a special number 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1250	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1253	Oh, no. Mr President, we say 'no' because they are paid differently from subsidiary doctors. It is a programme, which is why we say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1256	The Centro Association is missing. So the amendment under general number 817 and a special 67 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 819 and a special number 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1260	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1262	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1264	The Centro Association is missing. Therefore, the amendment under a general number 819 and a special 69 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1270	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1272	The Centro Association is missing. The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: “National Mechanism for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, Arrangements on Social Solidarity and Applicable Provisions of Law No.4387/2016 (A'85) and other provisions” was accepted at the outset and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1278	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1280	The Centro Association is missing. The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: ‘National Instrument for Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of Political Integration and Social Cohesion, Regulations on Social Solidarity and Implementing Provisions of Law No.4387/2016 (A'85) and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1281	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1282	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-15-S1-commons.u1283	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.54 the meeting for tomorrow, Friday, December 16, 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work (a) parliamentary scrutiny: topical and urgent debate; and (b) legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Governmental Code, Administrative Justice, Paradoxicals, voluntary disclosure of undeclared incomes, Electronic transactions, Amendments to Law 4270/2014 and other provisions", according to the supplementary agenda distributed.
