ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd General High School of Amarousio Attica. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Spatial planning - sustainable development'. From the outset, I would ask that we have cooperation, so that we can take the two meetings, as we have to do, and do not go unnecessarily at 2 o'clock a.m. after midnight, as yesterday. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16-12-2016 on the draft law in two meetings. I suggest that we do this today, which I think is more practicable and I have also consulted the President: I therefore propose that the draft law should be uniform both in principle and in terms of articles and amendments. That means - and I will see how many will be registered by my fellow Members - that there will also be a relative flexibility in terms of time and the rapporteurs and colleagues. I am also not saying how long today's sitting will go, because this will be commensurate with the number of colleagues who will be registered to speak and, of course, it is up to the amendments. The Minister will make an effort, so that there will not be any orchestral amendments. I am not talking about his amendments. His amendments - he is a competent Minister - are entitled to bring, if he has to, I don't know. I am talking about the bypassers, whose volumes go beyond the bill, which we are discussing, whether we would take it on substance. If you agree with this procedure, the meetings will be two in any case, i.e. the time will not be reduced. Because, I say to you,'single debate', it does not mean that this bill will be over today. The bill will continue tomorrow. If, first of all, there is no objection to what I propose to you - and without saying what time we will end before I see how many people will be registered - the entries will be made during the speeches of the two general rapporteurs electronically and after we see them, we will then discuss what time we will end today and what time we will close about tomorrow, because we will have an image and can approximately do so. It is, of course, clear that tomorrow, I would remind those who are in the Chamber and those who are not, at 19 noon, the roll-call vote. That's a matter. But in any case, tomorrow morning we will see whether it can come sooner, if and since the bill ends earlier, so that we do not pause two, three hours in order to hold the roll-call vote at 7 p.m. We'll see if he can come right after. I don't know why it happened, but anyway, we'll see that tomorrow. Therefore, Mr Kefaloniann and Mr Xydakis, who are the two parliamentarians who are here and Mr Mavrotas, who are rapporteur, I do not think they have any objections. So, I guess we're just acting up and on the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u3	Here you go, Mrs Manolaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u4	I agree with the proposal you are making, there is no objection. However, I would like to strengthen what you said about the amendments. Because so far governmental, ministerial amendments have been posted...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u5	It's five and five so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u6	Yes, but we were told in committee that there would be more. I would ask that they be posted, why do we put ourselves in the final analysis? They can't surprise us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u7	One of the reasons why I unify the debate is that and if the additional, but also those that have been posted, those who are not the responsibility of Mr Stathakis and Mr Famelou, I would ask today that the ministers should come and present them so that tomorrow, especially the rapporteurs and the speakers, you will probably have the possibility of a small second language, so that you can come back to the subject of the amendments, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like you to tell us about the times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u9	First of all, to the general rapporteurs and speakers, I will show flexibility. Don't worry. The same will apply to Members, unless you write fifty, but I don't think so. I have seen that very few people have been included in the committee. More will be here today, but if it is a reasonable number, then Members will have the same tolerance of more than seven minutes, so that they can be placed. Don't worry, Mr. Diarah. So let's get started. Here, Mr. Deiaras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have to legislate on a very important issue, spatial planning. The bill sets out the principles, guidelines, drafting procedures and public policies so that our national area can be better organized. The spatial planning, which is acquis for any other European country, here is simply a question. Without the organisation of the area, there will be neither evaluation nor development activity nor a safe and clean environment for citizens. During the debate at the meetings of the Committee on Production and Trade a number of questions and comments were expressed from the opposition. I will try, in response to some questions, to understand the essence of the changes of the bill in the existing spatial law. The new Republic's rapporteur raised the question, why did we not abolish the specific spatial development plans of L.4146/2013 for strategic investments. I answer that n.4146/2013 is outside the political philosophy of Left and Ecology. Unfortunately, however, it is a Memorandum of Understanding. The logic of promoting fast-track investments outside the achievements of a European society was a strategic objective of previous governments' legislative initiatives. We know that we do not have to legislate under normal circumstances. We are legislation with restrictions and commitments. That's the truth. This bill seeks to improve the previous law by setting specific and exceptional limits. Let us not forget that the situation of crisis and deadlock, in which the two parties, New Democracy and PASOK brought our country, led us to a series of compromises, outside the policy that we would like to implement for a fair society, in a sustainable natural and man-made environment. This is the truth, confirmed by the undeniable figures for the development of the economic indicators of the New Democracy period, that is, 2004-2009. The public debt increased by about 120 billion and doubled. The primary deficits have currently exceeded 50 billion, which have been covered by loans. At the same time, many billions of European programmes have been invaded, often for policies relating to spatial policy, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has put into it. What happened to that money? How much did they help with the country's productive support? In the same period -2004 to 2009 - New Democracy, with all these loans and European funds, instead of increasing production, we have had a reduction. One big question: it has been reduced in this five-year period, with so much money, agricultural production by 28%, the whole primary sector. At the same time, the secondary sector - industry, i.e. construction, etc. - decreased by 33%. I repeat that, in order for all of us, particularly the Greek people, to unite them, but above all not to repeat mistakes and political choices, which lead to collapses. The right path is a sustainable economy and a fair society. This unreasonable economic policy has brought us to the memorials and painful compromises. Why? So we don't get the worst. The worst is the total impoverishment of the people and the total loss of economic independence. The commitments cannot be overturned from one day to the next. They can, however, be streamlined after negotiation. The product of such negotiation is also this bill. In these circumstances we protect everything we can and improve what is happening. That is why we kept the large part of Law 4269/2014 and we improved it as far as the Memorandum promises allowed. This is the reality and criticism cannot ignore the causes and data. There was also another question from Potami and the Centron Union, why are no more responsibilities given to the regions elected? Our intention and political will are greater decentralisation. After all, it is confirmed by our proposals for the constitutional review. The country's current constitution, on the site concerning spatial planning, provides that spatial planning and town planning are the responsibility of the central state, Article 24(2). Our view is that this must also be changed by the elected regions to have a more important role in regional spatial planning. The bill involves local communities and regions, expressing an opinion, through the Regional Council, within the scope of the Constitution. In accordance with Article 24(1) of the Constitution, it is therefore laid down that the protection of the natural and cultural environment is an obligation of the State and a right of everyone. As I mentioned in my speech to the committee, our country, too late, compared to Western Europe, has dealt with spatial planning. In the development of urban planning and town planning there were some stations. The Royal Decree of 1923 was indeed a station, which for the first time laid mandatory rules and conditions for the construction of Greece, that not everyone is built wherever they want, but in a town plan or in the existing buildings in 1923 and that building permits are required for building construction. Other stations are the 1975 Constitution that enshrined the concept of spatial planning and a number of laws, such as Law No. 360/1976, the spatial law that has never been implemented. Building Law No.1337/1983, the Tritsis Act, covered a check of the Constitution, the contribution to land, so that adequate public spaces are provided in the town plans. In fact, Article 24 of the Constitution stipulates that owners must be obliged to take part in the disposal of land for the creation of public and public areas. The next decade two laws were passed, Law 2508/1997 on sustainable housing development and Law 2742/1999 on spatial planning introducing the concept of sustainable development. Unfortunately, these laws were not actually implemented but only on the part of the large Olympic projects, which strengthened the unequal development of the centre towards the region. After the Memorandum, with a number of legislation promoting exceptional interventions towards strategic planning, with the top of Law 4146/2013 on strategic investment, special projects for the development of public-sector and strategic investment, the ESRBs and the ESRBs are, as I said, being created. Finally, Law 4269/2014 reversed the institutional framework for spatial planning until then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Deiara, I'm sorry for a few seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the House, thirty-six students and students and two teachers from the 1st Arsadeio High School of Psychics. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Mr. Deiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u12	We must note, ladies and gentlemen, that although these laws have been passed in our country, we have never had the desired protection of the environment, of the cultivable land, of water resources, of our historic and cultural heritage. The procedures for approving and implementing the new urban plans were and are unacceptablely time-consuming. The main points and general logic of spatial planning, as set out in the bill under discussion, are as follows: The structure of the spatial planning system is now set at three levels: the national, regional, that is, the thirteen regions and the local, i.e. the towns. At the top of the pyramid is the national spatial strategy, the specific spatial plans, for example tourism and RES, are placed in their place, as they are sectoral and not national, as they were baptized, while regional spatial planning frameworks are strengthened in a more coordinated role. Local spatial plans, which replace general urban plans, adopt a stricter protective framework, laying down new categories of protected areas: streams, rivers, agialos, etc. They cover the area of the entire town with specialisation by section: residential areas, productive and business activities, protection areas, land-use control areas. Changes are also made to specific spatial plans to prevent the establishment of a parallel planning system which maintained and strengthened exceptional arrangements. The most informed and non-essential amendments allowed for all project levels with ministerial decisions include issues relating to grammar formalities, error corrections, clarifications of formalities, and harmonisation of texts and charts. In addition, in all cases where third-party opinions are provided, they should be issued within two months. At the same time, the draft law goes on to re-establish and strengthen the National Spatial Planning Council as an instrument for social dialogue and not as a body for government policy. The Executive Committee, a four-member body which had come up with a replacement for the Committee, is hereby repealed. He is appointed President of a university of unknown prestige and not the Secretary-General for Spatial Planning. Finally, the new draft law sets priority concepts, such as environmental protection, sustainability and the protection of soils and landscapes, by adding sustainable development to the basic concepts, by adding categories of areas to the protected - parasites, windy and cultural landscapes - and by adding objectives to the use of environmental capital. For example, Article 3 on the National Spatial Strategy adds to the objectives of sustainable development, land policy, the emphasis on marine, island and coastal areas and harmonisation with European acquired and environmental protection policies. The draft law, which replaces Part I of Law No 4269/2014, remains in the context set by the previous Law, goes on to interventions which strengthen the territorial plans of the regions - whether they be the national area or the municipalities - in relation to the sector. Thus, emphasis is placed on the rational distribution of activities within a given area. With regard to Part II of Law 4269/2014, which has been repealed by a recent legislative initiative concerning land use, it is envisaged to replace it by a presidential decree, within the next period. Probably, some to blame us for the new draft law preventing investment. In fact, the draft law protects the investor, because he will know where he can and can't invest. It ensures, in other words, a procedure of law, for the benefit of the environment and the investor. When we say 'legal certainty' for investors, we mean precisely that by the pre-authorisation process we ensure that the area where an activity is located can actually be implemented. The draft law sets as the basic objective of the spatial planning system the strengthening of sustainable development policy, which is now part of the basic concepts of the law, namely the strengthening of the economy, investment and employment, while protecting the environment and promoting social cohesion and justice. Finally, for the sake of better planning of spatial policy, we are codifying the planning and town planning provisions, which have not yet gone ahead. To sum up, therefore, the positive steps to change existing law are: Firstly, the relative strengthening of regional plans - the regional spatial planning framework has a role to play in coordinating - Article 6(5). Secondly, the strengthening of environmental protection by adding to the general concepts of the principle of sustainable development, the addition of categories of protection - streams, cavalry, cultural landscapes - and the objectives of individual spatial planning, which are compatible with environmental protection. Thirdly, the provision for the specific spatial plans of the pre-authorisation phase. Fourthly, the establishment of a procedure for general urban planning plans and local spatial planning plans. Fifthly, the reintroduction of the National Spatial Planning Council, not as a government body, but as a social dialogue body. And sixthly, the addition of special interventions, such as urban regeneration. A great offer to the environment - natural and anthropogenic - but also to the economy and the aesthetics of the landscape will be to slowly lead to the control of the Greek 'primary', which is called the 'outside design' and which I think is the biggest problem in our country, in terms of both the economic and the aesthetic landscape. We call on all Members to vote on the bill, because it as far as possible improves the situation of spatial planning and strategic planning and creates a more stable framework for investment, while at the same time strengthening the protection of nature and the urban environment and is generally integrated into the logic of sustainability. Thank you very much, and I think, Mr President, I was fine in my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u13	More than that, Mr. Comrade. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Skrekas, has the floor. Here, Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have once again witnessed a reference made by a very honourable colleague of the House to the way they legislate. They legislate, said once again, and they tear, legislate and weep. They legislate, he says, a bill, which is, to a large extent, against their own ideology, but they legislate at the request of lenders and according to the memorandum signed by the Greek state. Of course, we finally understand why Greece has reached the point that it has reached. Minister, according to the Bank of Greece figures, poverty has increased and in 2015 and 2016. There are, of course, elements which prove what I am saying, beyond poverty, which has increased, beyond taxation, which has become much more brutal, beyond the reality of the weak and the populace in Greece. Minister, I have some evidence from ELSTAT showing this: in 2012 the government of New Democracy, also supported by PASOK, had received an economy that was crumbling with a recession of 7.3%. In 2013 the recession was limited to 3.2%, while in 2014 for the first time, Greece in the years of the crisis had a growth of 0.4% annually. Unfortunately, it was unfortunate that SYRIZA - ANEL and since 2015 the Greek economy has recurred, at a rate of 0.3%, in the first half of 2016 by 0.8%, in the second half of 2016 by 0.2%, and we expect to see how it will close in 2016 as a whole with regard to the Greek economy and its growth. I heard celebrations during the discussion in committee and by the Minister and the Deputy Minister of State about the country's successful governance by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and about the efficiency and good way that the Greek economy has taken. That way we don't see him. This is also apparent from private consumption. Indeed, in 2012 the New Democracy, Antonis Samaras, had taken over a country where private consumption collapsed by 7.9%. In 2013, the drop in consumption to 2.6% was reduced to 2.6%. In 2014 private consumption increased for the first time by 0.6%. But the country had the misfortune to come by the government supposedly national salvation SYRIZA - ANEL, so private consumption fell again 0.3% in 2015 on an annual basis, by 0.8% fell in the first half of 2016, by 1.2% in the second half of 2016 and see where it will go on an annual basis. However, I must tell you that the special companies, which measure the movement of commercial products this year, say that retail sales have collapsed at around 7% in the organised retail trade in supermarkets. Even dairy products, dairy, as they say, milk, have a 10% drop in 2016. This is the success story and the celebrations of the situation, in which you say you have brought the country. Of course, I have heard that they are going wonderfully in the years of SYRIZA - ANEL and exports, which are of course an important indicator for the economy, because, if exports go well, you expect the economy to go better. But come here from the evidence that, unfortunately, exports of goods and services in 2014, when the so-called bad, arbitrary New Democracy government, supported by PASOK, increased by 7.7%, but unfortunately, Greece had the misfortune to come to its government by the terrible government of SYRIZA - ANEL, so the exports then collapsed by 10.5% in the first quarter of 2016, by 3.2% in the second quarter of 2016. We expect to see each year in 2016 where exports will be closed. That's a few. Data come from the Greek Statistical Service as regards your so-called success story and your successful administration. For this reason, it turns out that you cannot help the country and the present situation in any way. You can't give solutions. You don't have the option. It is inappropriate for this government to be able to get Greece out of the problem, and this seems to be the way it legislates. You bring a bill on the night of one day and the next morning - we have to talk about it. This bill, much bigger than yours, was in consultation months ago. You then brought it back in November and completed the second consultation on 21 November. So I cannot understand why we have arrived on Christmas Eve to bring this bill, the so-called important and developmental, as you say, against your ideology as your rapporteur says. You need to make it clear what you want. Do you agree with the bill you bring in or disagree with? Is it in the right direction or is it against ideology and you just do so at the request of lenders and memoirs? That's what you have to decide between you two and tell us, so we know what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u15	I told you, Mr. Screka, not ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u16	From there on, we are unfortunately being called to limit the debate very briefly, with the urgency procedure once again, on a genuinely development issue concerning the country's planning. It is not just the speed of the process by which you brought the bill, which does not help us achieve a bill that is really in the right direction and provides services to the economy of the country. There's two clues. Firstly, you include provisions which do not relate to this legislation, to a large extent, and we invite you to tell us who these provisions refer to. I'll explain it below. Secondly, we see a storm of amendments. A number of amendments reach our hands, most of which have nothing to do with this bill. I would ask you to stop this or tell us what amendments you will be tabling in the next two days as a government. In no case, ladies and gentlemen, this bill cannot be described as a revision of Law 4269/2014 nor as a reform, as it moves on two lines. Firstly, it simply uses renames and verbal differences without content in order to give the message that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is changing everything that the previous government has done and bringing legislation that is better. Secondly, despite the fact that 90% -95% of the basic philosophy of the law keep and reproduce what is contained in the n4269, you are nevertheless bringing some fundamental changes, some provisions, few and small, but they change all the nature of the bill. Amongst these, I am referring to the pre-approval of the pre-study, a stage that you are putting, which I will explain below, because it does not help at all and it is evenly an obstacle. However, with this bill once again, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government feeds bureaucracy. It puts bureaucratic obstacles and we will see this applied, as will its unpleasant consequences. As we have seen these two years, we will unfortunately be witnessing and then the country's bad governance, which must stop because it causes great damage. The design levels appear confusing, resulting in questions being raised about the integration of the national strategy into the design system pyramid. In addition, you refer to the rapporteur's report to strengthening the role of the regional frameworks. There are provisions here, however, which do exactly the opposite to what you refer to in the rapporteur's report. Once again, a number of implementing acts, ministerial decisions and decrees are provided for in this bill. So we ask: is there a specific timetable for how you bring them? We are still waiting from the May bill for the presidential decrees you had to bring to be implemented within six months. It's been seven months and you haven't brought them yet. Why believe you will soon, in due course, bring ministerial decisions so that your own law can be implemented and implemented? What has happened since the resolution of No 4269/2014 to this day? Firstly, it has not been implemented, because you have abolished, as I will say below, and the first and second part, to bring in, is supposedly better, so that for two years the country does not have a legislative framework. Secondly, the same logic exists in the spatial planning of tourism. You left it, you went down to C.E., you didn't do anything. You told us in committee that you would bring in a new landfill for tourism, of course, much better, because the previous one was not good. Let's see that, too. When will you bring it? Meanwhile, the country, for two years, has had no spatial planning for tourism. You understand why the economy's crumbling, because the recession is holding back, and why we're going from bad to worse. It seems from the way you govern, unfortunately. Thirty months after the resolution of L.4269/2014 and twenty-three months of governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, what you have done so far is to bring only one law, L.4389 in May 2016, without consultation, where a late amendment abolished Chapter II of Law 4269/2014, concerning the uses of land, with provision for the adoption of a new presidential decree within six months. You abolished the uses of land. You abolished a modernisation and a reform in the institutional framework regarding land uses in Greece. You said you'd bring a presidential decree and it's been six months and you've brought nothing. Otherwise, the country is supposed to develop and that the investment environment is improving. By the way, I should like to mention here that the country also does plunge on the corruption indicators, ladies and gentlemen, the two years of SYRIZA - ANEL governance, and also on the indicators that state the convenience of starting a business activity. That is to say, it is becoming more difficult, according to international organisations, as our country has collapsed in facilitating entrepreneurship in the two years of governance SYRIZA - ANEL. In December 2016, chapter I of Law 4269/2014 was abolished, which was supposed to bring about a reform, but essentially reproduces, as I said, our law. We have Article 4 and some other examples of the articles, to understand what I want to say to you, where you go to that country and how you legislate. At the National Spatial Planning Council, you are reducing two members. What's the point? Will it be more flexible? Why do you abolish the five-member executive committee that had a coordinating and executive role? What are you targeting with? How will it help you? Specific and regional spatial planning plans, in Articles 5 and 6, are renamed from national to specific projects. Big reform! We changed the word! Along with regional ones, they are strategic planning. Please state in the explanatory statement that you are strengthening the role of regional projects in relation to L.4269/2014. In fact, you're doing the exact opposite. Why are you doing this? Why do you say any more and do more? Article 7 for local spatial plans defines as the rapporteur for the approval of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, instead of the decentralised administration provided for by Law 4269/14. The Secretary-General, to whom I have spoken, made an observation that there may be overlap between local spatial plans and that is why we are going to a higher degree. Sounds right. But it was a higher degree of approval. He was on a regional level. Why do you take it from the regional level and take it to Ministry level? Instead of decentralizing, focus. Is this not against your ideology, the concentration and not the decentralisation of powers? With Article 8 for special spatial plans, you're supposed to bring growth. You want to help the investor who will come and risk his money in a country that needs investment. They're looking for a job for more than a million of our fellow citizens, young and older. There are no doors to knock. There's no business to work. How will the unemployed work when there are no businesses? Are there businessless workers? It can't be done. There must be businesses and investment, which will naturally follow the rule, the Greek law and help the economy. You, instead of helping, bring back the pre-consciousness that we have abolished. You say that with pre-approval there is a sense of law and legal certainty to the investor. I asked the market and people told me that premeditated premeditation is 80% of the final study. In other words, people will spend money and time - about a year - on pre-approval and then go to final approval. Why am I saying "a year"? Why do you say in it that the Central Bank will meet at least twice a year and in six months at the latest, it will have to issue its decision, the approval of the investment project. And I ask: two - three months to prepare for the pre-approval, six months to come out of the final decision, two months to have the administrative act, has spent a year pre-authorizing a pre-study. The investor should then repeat the final study. Why are you putting this stage? Why are you taking us back? Why are you taking the country back, when the pre-conceptions dominated and the bureaucracy was fed on such legal frameworks, which did not help Greece? Why are you taking us back? Why are you taking the country back? What's that good for? Well, you know, no investor and none of the market that's involved in it, and it's his job, doesn't think that's gonna help. On the contrary, he believes it is an obstacle that will not help, but will make it difficult for the business that the country now needs. Because, in this way, however, you are ruling - I am reserved for the rest in my position on the articles - for that reason, Minister that you were also Minister for Development, the country is going from evil to worse. You have received the country with a recovery rate and you have brought it into recession two years now. All those who live and work in the private market see in 2017 and scare what they come from. You have excessively taxed ordinary mortgages, wages and pensioners, and you have gone through cuts. Why can't you, you're weak to reboot the Greek economy. You can't put it on a recovery and development trajectory that will bring real prosperity and not fake bonuses, which you will get as soon as the fountain speaks three times. On 1-1-2017, you'll cut off the rest of the CSCE. You also increase contributions to pensioners and employees and you will get them ten times back what you have given them, that is, very little to the very few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you where we are to make an approach now. The list of speakers has been closed in relation to fellow Members. Fifteen of them are registered, the three of which have asked to speak tomorrow. In fact, today, 12 Members will speak. Having summed up the years - and rich, even, by adding the tolerance I promised - in seven hours we can be done today. I would also like to say an hour about the Ministers' amendments, which we are talking about for eight hours. This means that we started at 10:00 an hour and about 17:00 a.m. the time can be closed if we're all self-disciplined and without tensions and sterile controversies that don't need. About 17.00 minutes - 18.00 minutes today we can be done. Tomorrow you do not have to re-enter because the debate is unified. I am talking about the Members, not the rapporteurs and the special speakers, who are already registered. There may be secondary periods, especially general rapporteurs and speakers, but also those of colleagues who also want to see them. So with half the time, of course, we'll be done sooner. I will now see in consultation with the parties, because the President is missing in Belgrade, if we can bring the nominal one forward, so that there is no three-hour gap to be the nominal one at 7.00 hours an hour. But we'll see about that tomorrow. We continue with the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Sahinides. Here, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. We heard how nice New Democracy can do, how nice it was in its day, how nice SYRIZA has done and how much nicer SYRIZA can make them. We really live in a magic country, in a utopia. Retired people no longer come out and go, but they go for a walk. Greeks don't migrate, but they do leisure trips abroad. Food is so much that the trash cans are full. There are no homeless Greeks. Nobody's hungry. Because of wealth no Greeks work, they don't work. That's why boats are coming from illegal immigrants to our country. Also, there are no scandals. There are no lists. We heard some debts were incurred in relation to the lists, but we have repeatedly said that no one has told us how many of them have been collected. In fact, we also heard about a legal investor. Really, where do you see the investors? When you find them and see them, let us know. Unlike, Genoa - and in fact at the 27th of the month - farmers once again warm up the machines. Be sure of one thing. Since 1-1-2017 measures will apply to farmers, which will be disastrous for the primary production sector, this time you will not be able to trick them either with any Bootos or with the trade unions you control. Farmers will make their presence very dynamic and noticeable this time. In March, too, we are waiting for the fishermen and illegal immigrants who will return us from the rest of Europe because of the Dublin II treaty. In fact, a few days ago when the Prime Minister visited Germany, in talks with Mrs Merkel, she didn't even see the agenda she had with him, she referred him to Symble and instead told him that Greece should be prepared to accept extra illegal immigrants from Aleppo. You can understand all this, and in the light of the problems that exist in the neighbouring country and the terrorist attacks across Europe, which lead and understand what is going to happen. To go to the draft law, which, once again, comes in the well-known way, with the characterisation of the urgency. Since this draft law has long been posted to consultation, there has been the necessary time, since the deadlines for consultation have been closed so far, to process it and bring it under the regular procedure. Of course, it should be noted that the consultation was launched between November 11 and November 18, 2016, but the possibility of commenting from interested parties was locked up by 15 November. That is why several bodies have sent you letters - requests for the extension of the consultation, which the Minister has refused to do and is worthy of wonder why, as the bodies should have the time and the opportunity to table their proposals on the important issue of spatial planning, which at least at the theoretical level will contribute to the development of productive and business activities and thus to the development of our country's development. Of course, the important thing is, as has been said by a representative at the hearing, that participation in the consultations is meaningful and gains substance when the speakers put forward some opinions, which they have drawn from their experience and real life and knowledge, and which are heard in the context of policy formulation. Legislation should reflect a balance in the legal order so that the issues can be resolved. This draft law, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, does not, in essence, bring about any drastic changes in relation to the law in force to date, L.4269/2014, on the contrary, retaining it as a body, by making limited and identified amendments to its provisions, in order to reduce the complexity of the provisions, to promote the coherence and quality of the spatial plans, to strengthen the capacity of these projects to meet the constantly changing needs, in order to enhance legal certainty on the basis of the production of the area. National spatial planning can and should become the starting point for the mandatory guidelines in the area, and in this context ensure the conditions for transparency, social participation and control of the area. If these conditions are to be circumvented, then the principles of law of land planning and town planning are catalysed and replaced by the self-evident designs of the particular investor. Planning is therefore aimed at satisfying citizens and balancing the contradictions of development in the area. Amid the economic crisis in our country, Law 4269/2014 was established on spatial and urban reform and sustainable development, as was Law 4014/2011 on environmental assessment of projects and activities. The political framework resulted from the need to reduce bureaucracy and strengthen the investment climate, with a view to economic recovery. However, many problems have arisen from incomplete public participation in decision-making. At local and regional level internationally, emphasis is placed on public participation in decision-making on spatial and development problems. This ensures the successful implementation of the project concerned. Local societies are natural users of the space and their inclusion in the decision-making process and the process of drafting and implementing policy is a necessary prerequisite, particularly when it comes to social structures and those imposed by the European partners, are part of Community funding programmes and are implemented in breach of the wishes of local communities. No one has a problem building up structures for health, welfare, education, culture, green spaces and recreation. What, however, if these areas are not created by the state for Greek families, to solve the problems of access to the health system, to play children and to develop an ecological awareness? Let's not be fooled. There are community centres, as they are called, intended for Roma and immigrants. There are hot spots that with the projects you are promoting will be incorporated into special spatial plans, which will properly regulate the use of land and the start-up process for their pensions. It will be made directly by the Minister for the Environment, or the municipality or region concerned, or even by the body implementing the project. It is worth noting that while you are talking about national spatial planning or, in fact, about a national spatial strategy, you do not offer an integrated approach to the issue. We cannot talk about spatial or spatial planning without including marine spatial planning. At first sight, you may think that the object of marine spatial planning is only maritime activities and activities in coastal waters. However, terrestrial activities have a direct impact on maritime areas and should be taken into account. Spatial planning should not be studied separately from the marine environment, but the marine design should be considered at the same time, and it should be introduced on distinct terms in the existing design framework. We know that marine spatial planning was in consultation, which ended a few days ago, and we will expect it to come to a debate in the House. We note, however, that in order for a comprehensive perception and a structured policy, we should see them both together. Of course, the lack of any planning, spatial planning of land use, reflects the development of the country, the economy, but above all it negatively affects the quality of life of residents. Of course, a basic prerequisite for any design, how much more so for the structured environment that surrounds the citizens, is a project, even a general draft of guidelines and strategic directions, but not the vague one to become useless and must be recast in order to be implemented. Overall, we do not see any great differences from the previous legislative framework, which SYRIZA had been very accused of at the time of opposition. In fact, he had described it as an unscientific and subscientific memorial and promised that he would abolish it. Evidently they are the same announcements as the Memorandum was to be abolished with an article. So now we're seeing a crock of n.4269/2014 with the left seal. We do not see how the bill will contribute to sustainable development, we do not see how sound economic planning can be done, we do not see any specific timetables being available, since for two years Greece has not had a modern institutional framework for land use. You do not attach due importance to participatory planning procedures and the history of implementing acts, ministerial decisions and decrees does not ensure the implementation of urban planning. Remember the remarks and communications you made at the time about spatial planning. Remove this present and present a new revised legislative framework that will centre the Greek society, which will favour the development of the national economy, which will respect our cultural heritage and support national interests. In principle, the Golden Dawn will vote against this draft law. And let's come to the articles. With regard to Article 3, there must be a comprehensive planning, clear policy for the development of mountainous volumes, island regions and other disadvantaged areas, while highlighting and exploiting their local comparative advantages and connecting with the wider area of each region. It should be noted that the aim you mentioned is that set out in the plan and in the context of the objectives of the European Spatial Development Plan for balanced growth, multicentreity, a new town and country partnership, for competitiveness, regional and social cohesion. The national spatial strategy must ensure the maximum consensus of productive, political and social forces in order to ensure the continuity of the State in the direction of sustainable development. Therefore, it should not just be announced in the House, but all forces should be helping to form a strategy. Article 4 refers to the National Spatial Planning Council. It would be possible to ensure the conditions for transparency, social participation and control of the area, particularly after the removal of the Executive Committee with superpowers, which the Council would replace, but there is a concern here about its establishment and about the participation of representatives from non-governmental organisations, as other articles refer to strategic investments. What if these environmental organisations are opposed? In Chapter II, in strategic spatial planning and in Article 6, which refers to regional spatial planning, it is worth wondering how it is possible to provide a regulatory framework for land use and building conditions. The sources of funding should also be identified, as primary and secondary local authorities in many cases appear with sub-financing and therefore there will be a failure to carry out such studies, unless specific financial planning and resource commitment are given. With regard to the Regional Spatial Plan for Central Macedonia, we should note that the Thessaloniki Regulatory Plan had been established since 1985. The review study of the regulatory plan was completed in 2009 and was received by the Executive Committee of the Thessaloniki Regulatory Organisation, but has not yet been implemented. Therefore, in the first phase, more attention should be paid to the completion of the project of Thessaloniki, in line with Athens, due to its particular economic and national importance and, of course, to clarify which current guidelines will be incorporated. In Chapter C on the regulatory spatial planning, Article 8 ‘Organised reception of activities should not be permitted in Natura 2000 areas’ and there should be no regulation in the opposite direction. In addition, ambiguity, created by the possibility of modifying local spatial plans from specific spatial plans, should be resolved while at the same time specific spatial plans should be in line with the guidelines of local spatial plans. It is important to say that, as the specific spatial plans are presented, these are undoubtedly a clever way to make the selected investments progress with a fast track. It is certain that this category of projects ensures investment projects and, of course, removes any restrictions on land use, which may be a brake on them. In Article 9, for the build-up coefficient, simple reporting of build-up coefficient limits does not mean anything. There should be these limits in combination with a number of other factors. Besides, let us not forget that the structural factors in the past have also changed by way of derogation for the creation of strategic investments. So let us not consider these limits to be fait accompli. Article 10 refers to urban implementation plans. It is positive to inform the actors involved and the local society about the development process. The public is notified of the urban implementation plans relating to the publication in two newspapers, local or national, and of the municipality’s website. Interested parties may submit written objections to the municipality concerned, which the municipality is required to examine in writing within forty days, if it considers it appropriate to amend and then to promote them for approval. This minimum participatory procedure should be respected, both for urban and specific spatial projects, since there are no doubts about the consequences of local society and the economy, which should, however, be taken into account and, at times, the voices of reaction remain silent. After all, it is not only the times that the presence of the first and second grades of the ATTs, i.e. municipalities and regions, have intervened in the urban planning stages of the regions on the basis of selection criteria for personal services and micro-political interests. Thus, while it may be positive to refer the special spatial plans to the Central Council for Urban Affairs and Challenge, as to whether they overthrow an existing urban planning but, given that the Minister is above all and has overpower, he can change the opinion in order to facilitate local investment. Until first, under the institutional umbrella of the special spatial plans, the existing framework operates a parallel way of building for both the properties of the HICP, the new superstition, but also for those investments that could be characterised as fast track strategies. Now, this situation can be generalised and favoured by all the investments you are trying to promote through the divestment of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Shahinides, you have to close up. You'll have at least seven minutes tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u20	One paragraph is left, Mr President. All the draft laws you bring you have repeatedly said that the Golden Dawn will change them for the good of the Greeks. You are not taking account of developments in Europe and in the international sphere at all. This, unfortunately, has a direct impact on the Greek, which you have forgotten not only during the time of the crisis, but over the last forty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop", seventeen students and students and a teacher from the 15th Municipal School of Amarousi. Welcome to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Georgios Arvanitides, a special speaker from the Democratic Partnership, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to reiterate, in general terms, what I have said to the committee responsible in order to make clear the reasons why the Democratic Assent is voting against this bill in principle. I have repeatedly said that priority for the country is - or at least should be - the strengthening of the production process. A key part of the development, which we really need, is directly linked to spatial and urban planning, a matter that is afflicting the country over time. More than forty years have passed since the conversion and we have not yet decided where the production will be, where we will build our homes, how we will grow up our cities, our settlements, where we will make business parks, where and how many are public utility areas. And let me say that we are in this situation because we are living in a state without continuity, where on many occasions governments refuse to catch the thread from where the previous ones left it, even when they agree with them. And that's exactly what's happening in this bill. We're taking a step forward and two steps back. In 2014, the country took a decisive step towards clear and comprehensive spatial planning and town planning. It has also taken important steps in land use, thus modernising the institutional framework in force since 1987. An effort you canceled a few months ago, turning the country back like this thirty years. Law 4269 directly linked the creation of a spatial planning plan to the country's development path for the first time, thus giving the message that Greece will proceed coordinately and decisively to a model of sustainable development, without delays, without conflicts of law, which encapsulate investments in courtrooms. A framework with clear rules on environmental protection. We come to two years 2015-2016. The government just had to implement the law. And law enforcement means implementing, tracking weaknesses, correcting what is needed. Unfortunately, you didn't do anything of this. Your predecessors, Minister, have spent almost two years at the ministry's wheel, without issuing the necessary ministerial decisions and presidential decrees, so that the law can be fully implemented. In simple terms, they lowered the switch, shut down the system, indifferent to the consequences, indifferent to the investments that were pending, indifferent to the municipalities that were shouting that they cannot go ahead with the development of local spatial planning, indifferent to the delays of the NRP and the suffocation of small technical projects, indifferent to even parliamentary control, when I asked to know why the implementation of the law does not go ahead. I will submit in the Minutes a report that I submitted in February 2016 to which I am still waiting for an answer. [[At this point the Member, Georgios Arvanitidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is a letter from the Mayor of Halkidone in Thessaloniki, which clearly says that the municipality cannot proceed to local planning until the Ministry does not proceed with the activation of the law. That's the reality. I'm coming to today. The government tells the citizens that it took two years to understand that Law 4269 was not in the right direction. That's why he's bringing a new bill today. Question: Is that a legitimate question? I would say to you that it is perfectly legitimate, if N.4269 had been implemented and after a period of time you have made changes, having identified specific problems and weaknesses. It would also be legitimate to change him if you fully disagreed with his philosophy, that is, if you said that we have another perception, we will radically change the country's model of spatial and urban planning, because that is our choice, that's what we believe. Then you would have been all right on your side. But you didn't do any of these. On the contrary, bring in a bill that does hardly change anything in the philosophy of n. 4269. But you are changing important details at the regulatory level, namely, the level of implementation. And here is the great contradiction. How is it possible to change a law that, with your own fault, has not been applied to the place where the implementation is concerned? How are you able to know if the amendments you propose are in the right direction, without having measurable results for the performance of the provisions that you have decided to remove? The answer is simple. You do as you always do, just to say that you have made another reform. The country should have been done with this since 2015. You tell us that again on this issue we must start from the beginning, as you had the country to start again from the beginning in February 2015, charging burdens to the Greek people who had been able to fly from their backs. I have told you in committee, and I repeat today: it is quite a memorandum to understand that we have to end all this, that the country needs a national line, that it needs a national understanding to overcome the crisis. There is no time for experimentation or delays. I'm actually coming. Our main disagreement lies in the change you make in the specific spatial plans, because we believe that this change will work counter-development. Let me explain how the spatial plans are working and how they are part of the broader spatial planning model. Both to L.4269 and to this bill have the same perception, the same model of organization. At the top of the pyramid is the national spatial strategy, where the state defines the main axes, principles, directions of spatial and urban planning for the whole country. It says, for example, that these will be the protected areas, I will do industry, here agricultural production, here tourism, and it goes on to say. The next level comes the strategic spatial planning which specialises the national strategy at municipal and regional level. It says, for example, that we will be doing industry, agricultural production and tourism in central Macedonia and the corresponding limits will be made in these municipalities. In the case of a project, however, where an investment exceeds the limits of a municipality or even a district, which is very likely too often the case, Law 4269 provided for a smart by pass to overcome problems of bureaucracy and delays. The specific spatial plans therefore work as a small fast track to make significant investments immediately. The value of this tool was also taken into account by figures since some twenty-five projects for investments, medium-sized projects, i.e. value of EUR 5 to 10 million, had been submitted under this scheme in January to March 2015. These investments are still stuck. They are stuck because your predecessors, Minister, have done nothing. They have been stuck because for two years the government has refused to go ahead with a job that has been ready for its predecessors. Instead of putting the machines on the hollow to cover the lost ground, then, you bring in a provision which, instead of strengthening, weakens the specific spatial plans, adding a problematic pre-approval procedure. This is a process that will cost not only time, but also money. I will mention three main problems in the pre-approval process provided for in the bill: firstly, the additional percentage of studies for each investment project can even reach EUR 25 000, due to this intermediate stage. Secondly, the projects proposed by Law 4269 which have not been approved will require new strategic environmental impact studies. Thirdly, the provision for pre-approval by a ministerial decision is extremely likely to lead to appeals to the Council of State, resulting in further major delays. So, Minister, you must either remove the pre-approval stage or you must completely change the way in which this process works, if you really want to say that your aim is to facilitate and help investors. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for the reforms to go ahead, it is not enough for the House to vote every time. The spatial and urban planning has many prerequisites, which are pending, such as forest maps, land registers and plan for the country's national development strategy. If we want the best possible results, we must quickly close the open fronts. We have to stop working with the cart in front of the horse. As I said at the outset, the Democratic Reconciliation will not vote in principle. In other circumstances, we could have a much more substantial debate. If you had fully implemented Law 4269, today we could discuss specific issues, to make an account of what went well and what we need to correct. Instead, you bring in a bill that adds delays and bureaucracy to a law that never even worked. Delays, which will affect both spatial planning and investment projects that depend on it. So I think that once again we should keep an extremely small basket. I do not want to extend to the amendments and the details of the bill for the moment. After all, we will have the opportunity to see all this in detail in tomorrow's debate on the articles. But I would like you, Minister, to tell us whether you are accepting some of the amendments tabled and asking the ministers, who intend to table amendments, to do so today so that we can have the time to see them and discuss them at tomorrow's sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Because for the second time I hear colleagues saying 'Tomorrow on the articles', I would remind you that the debate is unified. Of course, the general rapporteurs and speakers, primarily, will have the right to secondary tomorrow, but they will be able to come back. I said the way I see it, and my fellow Members will be able to do the same tomorrow. I just want to remind you that today we are going 'packet' the conversation, as we agreed. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. The truth is that taking advantage of the use of the land, based on the science and the growing needs of society, affects the development of certain sectors of the economy. That's why people change the natural conditions to satisfy the needs of production. But the size, nature and forms of change depend both on the level of the technical system and on the social system. For placing and building on certain residential areas for principal residence, agricultural land, forestry, tourism, industrial, holidays and so forth, with respect for and protection of the environment and public health. But for you - and I mean the urban parties of SYRIZA, PASOK, New Democracy, etc. - spatial planning and town planning are not the priority of meeting the needs of people and society as a whole, but of making profits for business groups. Because the use of the land is treated as a merchandise. That is why you have flexibility and exceptions to change the form of use of it every time, which will bring more and more profit to business groups. After all, you do not hide that it is, as the Minister said and said again in committee, to ensure, among other things, legal certainty for investors. That's right. All your concern is legal certainty for the exploiter to ensure his profit. That is why in the rapporteur's report you refer to the fact that this draft law aims, among other things, to strengthening the possibility of all projects responding to changing needs through the promotion of more flexible training procedures and their modification. Perhaps that's why you have the pre-authorization mechanism and you also allow the municipalities to place any land use in each area. The transfer of such responsibilities to municipalities, which usually do not have technical services, is translated into privatization of objects but also aimed at speeding up land use changes needed by large groups to move forward with their investments. The political question, therefore, ‘spatial planning for whom?’ They are objectively at the heart of each debate on these issues. So spatial planning is not a technocratic issue. It's a political matter. That is why, at European Union level, there is a debate on spatial planning as a key tool for so-called sustainable development, namely, supporting the reproduction of capital and ensuring the profitability of capitalist investment. It is no coincidence that it is included in the prerequisites for the closure of the second evaluation of the third memorandum and its urgency. You want the closure of the agreement by providing additional tools for exploitation intensity. So cut and sewn and the spatial transformation into the needs of the great capital that is being promoted and the current SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. In addition, all the previous period with public interventions, both representatives of urban parties and representatives of businessmen, said that one of the main problems preventing the attraction of foreign investment was regional planning. This is how spatial planning and town planning are. The whole of land policy, the concept of the organization of the social area, is inevitably linked to the context of production relations. And people's needs don't fit in capitalist spatial planning. It may have been apologetic for the majority rapporteur to say that you had to compromise, after receiving an anti-popular policy of the New Democracy. But nothing has been abolished. Anything that you received from the anti-linguistic, you continued it wilder. You may now lift the flag of 600 million to the micro-retired people, but you are grabbing 8,200,000. Of course for the unemployed. 90% gets nothing. There's no fate in the sun. So why are you not accepting the amendments and the draft JRC law for an allowance to all unemployed and free of charge transport to public transport and other proposals contained in this bill? Today all the newspapers provide information about the information system "ERGANI". It's your evidence. It says that from January to November 2016, that is, in these 11 months there were 1,863,000 redundancies. Is that a cruelty or not? We're asking you. Because your anti-grassroots policy is also seen by the main axes which are set in total - if you like - both from the ruling class and its parties and from the issues of spatial planning and political land, and you are even more aggressive today. What are the main axes? Firstly, the expansion of individual property on earth, along with the concentration and organisation of such property in large capitalist holdings. That is what you voted on in the European Union when you agreed to Regulation 2020, which says clearly economic growth in all sectors of the economy. That's what you're doing, crushing small and medium sized town and countryside. Secondly, the promotion of commercialisation and that part of the land which belongs directly or indirectly to the public, but also to a number of facilities and infrastructures such as forest land, buildings of public bodies, businesses, ports, airports, etc. The privatization of the former airport of Greece. New Democracy started it with PASOK, you completed the crime with colonial laws, which you condemned as Opposition and of course at the expense of the inhabitants of the wider region. The business group will, however, win a lot. Thirdly, the abolition of any restrictions on land use and the immediate meeting of the latter with the investment projects of the monopolistic groups. In addition, flexibility is provided on a case-by-case basis by ministerial decisions. Fourthly, promoting a change in the administrative division of the country, with a view to shaping the largest administrative structures, which, inter alia, will also facilitate the penetration of monopolistic capital into critical sectors such as transport, energy, infrastructure, tourism and others. Fifth, the development of business fields around services provided by the State. I am talking about the free building, the private building of tourist facilities, the privatisation of technical works and others. Sixth, promoting the overall attack on the rights of the working class. These go together, hug. It is the labour restructuring, the reduction in the price of the labour force, which you and the previous ones are promoting. And you know, you may be creating fights between you two, but fighting is never about smacking the workers' lives. And the challenge from the New Democracy is that only businessmen ever talk about workers. However, workers produce wealth. Industries and businesses without bosses, work, no workers. That's why your confrontation is for radars from the Department of Health, canalarchs' licenses and something like that. For the hell that the people's family experiences, crumbs from New Democracy because the government is taxing it and presents it as a philosophical measure. I mean, the mockery on the block. For the implementation of all these objectives, then, government policy makes use of a set of legislative tools and other interventions such as the NSRP, the public works framework, the liberalisation of energy, the administrative reform plans, the changes to arbitrary legislation, the issue of permits and, of course, the spatial plans or even the legislative framework for the land register, which the Minister told us will be final in 2020. As far as we are concerned, you do not have any more time from the European Union, otherwise the funds allocated must be repaid. Especially now for the register decades, we hear it and we don't see it. We don't throw it all at you. All these interventions therefore form a single policy framework for the existing order and the European Union. We are also saying that society must deal with this as well and, above all, with the labour movement. It is precisely in this context that today's bill that comes to reform slightly as a minimum the framework for planning spatial policy, so that it best meets the specific needs of business groups in this particular period of time. A central axis is the greater alignment of spatial policy with the general spatial context, i.e. alignment with the centrally defined priorities of capital. On the other hand, the report clearly states that the main axes of the changes promoted by the bill include improving the coherence and functionality of the spatial planning system with special emphasis on strengthening the connection between spatial planning and sectoral policies. In essence, you are talking about greater and more effective alignment of spatial policy with sectoral, development priorities that the monopolies want, want and put forward. It is planned to extend the scope of the specific spatial plans, as well as to establish procedures that guarantee the promotion of business activity in terms, however, that ensure the quality of the natural and anthropogenic environment and support the local economy. The bill, therefore, mentions spatial planning with privatisation policy, and describes how spatial planning is essentially subject to the general policy of the ruling class and its interests. The result, of course, is that social inequalities will be widened, unequal growth will grow even further. There can be no balanced development in capitalism, neither between the regions nor between the sectors of the economy, because it is a feature of the very capitalist way of production. So social inequalities will be widened, because we will have a greater deterioration in the quality of life where people live, in the people's neighborhoods and in the people's neighborhoods. That is why we are voting against the bill, while stressing that capitalist property on earth, concentrated means of production, the development of production on the basis of the profit rate, namely what determines the spatial planning, the economic and political domination of monopolies, reproduce the anti-grain character and the spatial planning. And that is what the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is doing today and quickly with this bill, and to a large extent copy of the former New Democracy and let the New Democracy not vote for it for opposition competition. What can we do? He reclaims the same chair of best management. For the Communist Party of Greece, the land and its use are socially good. The objective and criterion for the organisation of the social area is the combined satisfaction of all people's needs, the specific social use of the land and the area in general. We are talking about agricultural production, tourism, the guarantee of quality people's housing, infrastructure, social services, industrial production, environmental protection and others. All of these of course require social property on earth and the central planning of the economy, i.e. it requires a break with monopolies and their power and their parties and, of course, the release from the European Union of labour power. We are voting against and we will discuss the amendments in detail tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u25	We move to the special speaker from the Independent Greeks, Mr. George Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called on to discuss a bill that will proceed to a necessary spatial planning throughout the country and is expected to help ensure that the procedures for significant investments needed by the place are not delayed. The urban planning in our country remains complex, dysfunctional and low-performance, while without urban planning half the country remains. The proposed bill replaces L.4269/2014 and its spatial planning system, in the direction of strengthening the development perspective, while protecting the natural and anthropogenic environment and promoting social cohesion and justice. In the two years that followed, the preparation of a local spatial plan did not begin. It is also obvious that the absence of a strategy for the completion of town planning in our country, as the main objective of the change in legislation was to strengthen the relationship of special spatial projects with local planning, and that is why Law 4269 is currently under review. The Ministry of the Environment, throughout the period of validity of the law, did not exercise its final coordinating role, i.e. drawing up guidelines and monitoring developments, so that for a period of two years no urban plan had been approved, since the necessary specifications had not been laid down. While, therefore, Law 4269 introduced significant changes to the spatial planning system in order to remove obstacles to investment, as a result, it is considered that it did not raise the right and operating regulatory environment for this. The draft law therefore attempts to address these problems with limited and identified amendments to Law 4269/2014. In order to improve the prospects for growth, we are returning to a logic on the basis of which the state defines the strategy and uses of land. For the sustainable development and organisation of the national area, the Ministerial Council shall establish a national spatial strategy comprising key spatial organisation, the main axes, the medium and long-term objectives of spatial development at the level of the general government and its individual bodies, as well as the proposed measures and actions for the implementation of the objective development. The strategy, hopefully, will form the basis for the coordination of spatial and regional projects, investment projects, and local government programmes, as well as public legal persons which affect the development and cohesion of the national area. The main objectives of the bill are the definition of the concept of sustainable development as a strategic objective of the spatial planning system and the improvement of the spatial planning system, in order to ensure that citizens practiced at different levels, national, regional, local, gain greater coherence and functionality and to achieve better coordination of sectoral spatial planning policies. This is why the content of the national spatial strategy is strengthened to restore, even partially, the lack of a general spatial framework. In addition, the protective framework becomes stricter as the landscape is added to the areas that are part of the protected areas and the beach is added, rivers, lakes and streams. Each municipality will be able to choose for its territory the land uses in the residential and productive areas. In particular, local spatial plans replace the former general urban plans. They will be approved as soon as their contents are harmonised or compatible with regional planning frameworks and similar projects by neighbouring municipalities. Thus, the possibility of amending them, like regional plans, by a ministerial decision, is abolished only in the event of natural disasters or new Community directives. We see, in other words, the provision of freedom of movement for municipalities in terms of land use, but there is no white cheque for local communities. Although they will determine the categories of land use, they will have to specialise in planning, local spatial plans which will, in other words, be compatible with what has been decided in the regions with the regional planning frameworks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Lazarides, I'm sorry to interrupt. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Arsadeio High School of Psychiatry II. Welcome to the House and good holidays. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Keep going, Mr. Lazarides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u28	May I also wish them, Mr President, good progress and good holidays. The specific projects relating to the preparation of new type of land use plans to facilitate investments should also be agreed with the Central Council for Urban Affairs and Disputes, the Central Council for Urban Affairs and Disputes. We see, ladies and gentlemen, the government seeking to strengthen sustainable development policy, namely, to strengthen the investment and employment economy while protecting the environment and promoting social cohesion and justice. It sets these rules and the framework for the institutional and regulatory framework according to which the necessary investment for our economy and local communities will be attracted, but with criteria and rules that do not put spatial planning in doubt. The Independent Greeks support the bill. Before I finish, because I have a little time, I would like to talk about an amendment we have tabled by the Independent Greeks, Amendment No 5. In the 1950-1960-1970s, the prefectures made concessions of agricultural parcels, etc., to various municipalities throughout the country, in which the decisions they made commemorated the numbers of agricultural parcels were to be commemorated. These decisions were then translated into the mortgages, they were made with regular numbers of transcriptions, volumes, etc., the municipalities of these areas, these parcels became. Over these years, over fifty - sixty years, other agricultural parcels have become schools, but they have become parks, but they are within a project, but they have been sold out in order to obtain resources to implement some plans by the municipalities, etc. In any case, successive acts have been taken on them. Then came the register, they acquired all this, but then, when the FEK was issued after the decision of the prefect, in which the numbers of parcels were remembered, by omission - and it is evident - out of the ten, fifteen, twenty, thirty parcels transferred then by the prefect in Greece could have been omitted. The judgment appeared to have been made by omission and not intentionally. However, all these acts that we mentioned earlier, namely that a registration number, volume, etc. was acquired in the mortgage, were subsequently acquired in the register, and now some services are coming, they have taken off the TAFEC, and since there was no mention of a parcel in the FEK, the municipalities are facing serious problems now. We are asking for our amendment to be remedied, in this case, and those which had been omitted at the time to be translated into a new FEK in order to restore this mistake and prevent the municipalities from facing these problems. The Independent Greeks support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr Lazarides, and for your briefness. We are going with Mr. George Mavrota, a special speaker from the river. He's a little sad, because on Sunday his team "done" a penny from Olympiacos, because he left the sport early and closed the house when he played. So, I've owed it to him since then to tease him. Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President, for reminding me. Pools, not in parliament, though, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u31	Like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, for this particular bill on spatial planning, we must start by saying that attracting investment in a country depends on many things, such as human resources, low taxation, speed of justice, lack of bureaucracy, clear institutional framework and legal certainty that this entails. A bill, such as this, on spatial planning and sustainable development should play this role, on legal certainty, and that is why they are actually calling for it. Because if I understood correctly, it is a requirement for the institutions in the context of the second assessment, and that is why it is now coming under the urgency procedure. Speaking of which, let's take a look at the next two or three months. It's the window of opportunity that we have for a chain of events that will lead our derailed economy back in tracks. The chain links are clear. Firstly, the closure of the second evaluation next month. Secondly, the seal on the viability of the debt. Thirdly, integration into quantitative relaxation. Fourthly, the exit into the markets somewhere in 2017. That's the good script. The bad scenario is for the government to continue its communication improvisations that give arguments to those who want to delay the evaluation. That is to say, in the period of the European elections since March, when we have the Dutch elections, then in France, in Germany and rather in Italy in the year, perhaps even until summer, when any negotiations will be conducted worse for our country. So the second assessment will be incarcerated, we will not get the approximately 6 billion funding and we will be back on the wall again in the summer when we have to pay back about 5 billion credit requirements. If the second assessment, then, is not closed in time, the rate of growth of 2.7%, which is provided for in the budget that was voted two weeks ago and which many of you were enchanting for this, 2.7% will be a far-reaching unreasonable dream. Not that you're not used to us in far-sighted dreams. Let's get back to the bill. It is 90% the same as the Law 4269 that had passed as an urgent bill in the summer of 2014 and has never been implemented since. So what did SYRIZA say then? I will borrow an abstention from the speech of the current Deputy Minister of Labour, which in the summer of 2014 in the respective bill said: "You bring it so that no one can get a hold of it, not even the rapporteurs can read it. Why? Not obviously because of the bureaucracy and inconveniences of the legislative framework, but because this is all the hard part that investors can make and the big capital coarse money. Here is the good field.’ In fact, your rapporteur then, walking for the last year in 2014 on the antimonetary path, said: "What we cannot recognise in this bill" - 2014 - "is the consistency with the specific Memorandum cheques. And the question is whether you still believe that the same applies to this bill, 90% similar to Law 4269/2014. But let's go to content too. Spatial planning, as we know, is a development tool. Since postpopulation, several attempts were made to reform urban and spatial planning, because the country needed it. However, the underfunding, the absence of independent targeted and effective public administration, the reactions of parts of Greek society, customer relations and election were only some of the causes of the limited success of these efforts. So gray zones, lack of clear rules left scope for interpretation and transaction, and that prevents someone from investing if they are not armed with a willful endurance or are not willing to enter it. The pros and the anti-legislative measures we have been discussing in committee and in our proposals. Let us repeat them here in detail, starting with the first chapter. With regard to the time and financial planning for the implementation of the bill, there is a lack of deadlines for the adoption of presidential decrees and ministerial decisions. Given the undersubmitment of the public administration and the absence of funding, the bill without them will remain a wish. There is also a lack of a mechanism for monitoring programming and implementation, where real-time data will be collected, e.g. design notices, procurement phases, procurement phases, study stages, etc. in order to assess the achievement of defined objectives and the harmonisation of planning levels between them. Here, the role of a spatial planning inspector could be central and constructive. In addition, participatory planning and consultation procedures are not appropriate. Prior to L.4269, participatory planning that has now been significantly reduced was possible. It is absolutely necessary and crucial for the preparation of local spatial plans. In order for there to be participation, there must be clear and transparent procedures and commitment from the political system to implement them, but this has not been the case with this bill, which has only been in consultation for ten days and has come almost the same to Parliament, despite almost three hundred comments it had. Let's go to Article 3 for the national spatial strategy. Provision should be made here to quantify the objectives, at the level of spatial policy and the rules of publicity of the mandatory periodic evaluation. This role can be taken by the National Spatial Planning Council with more frequent meetings. In the national spatial strategy, apart from a text of principles, we consider it appropriate to include maps and charts with the subject of the specific frameworks, which need to specialise the national strategy on spatial structure in the productive sectors. This makes the framework more binding, while avoiding cases of misinterpretations and omissions in the plans to be followed. In paragraph 1, in the sixth point, for the sustainable development of subsections, that is to say, where particular emphasis is given and the maritime island and coastal area are mentioned, it would also be appropriate to add the mountainous area. In paragraph 2, too, of Article 3, the national spatial strategy should be submitted to the House for a vote and not merely announced in the House. It is something that we also insisted on for the national strategy, on research, technological development and innovation, on the USSR, which was adopted and practically accepted in May of this year. Paragraph 4 should not simply take into account the main axes and objectives of the national spatial strategy, but be binding, as otherwise they may be bypassed and ignored. In Article 4, which concerns the National Spatial Planning Council, I imagine that the position of the President of the National Spatial Planning Council and its Deputy will be published by the Ministry of Open Call for expressions of interest. Let's go to Chapter II for the strategic spatial planning and the special and regional spatial planning frameworks. For Article 6 in particular, for the regional spatial planning frameworks, we think that marine spatial planning should also be included. It is a good thing that joint committees are set up between the Ministry of the Environment and Energy and the regions, but the role of the regions and regional councils is typified in the process of approving the regional spatial planning frameworks, as it simply requires agreement, which is not necessary. In Chapter III, at a lower level in the regulatory spatial planning, we start from Article 7 and local spatial plans. In local spatial plans, there is a question of sub-funding the TAs, so there is a lack of a proclamation of corresponding studies. It's something we should see. In the committees before last week, the Minister gave a number of deadlines to complete the forestry maps outstanding. He said until November 2017 about the ratification of the pending forest maps, about the cavaliers by December 2017 and the Land register by 2020. We hope that these government deadlines will be complied with, as these loose ends are a brake on any investment interest and on the implementation of local spatial plans. It should also be finalized for the saints and forest maps and everything that has been finalised there to pass on to the orthophotous maps. In Article 8 for special spatial plans. These concern mainly large individual projects and are one of the main projections of the bill. Specific spatial plans may amend the approved local plans and their existing residential control zones. That should be the exception, not the rule. The concern is that the specific spatial plans - provided for by the law and which can be a useful development tool - are sufficient to promote them properly and not undermine integrated planning - should therefore not become the main planning tool. They must exist - we also meet in other countries - but as an additional instrument for limited and conditional use. The pre-approval procedure in these cases must be effective and play its real role and not be a blocking window. In Article 10 on urban implementation plans, where we go to the lowest level, we need to see the issue, as several stakeholders have noted in the consultation, that there is a need for the adoption of Presidential Decrees on the approval of urban implementation plans and that it is not just enough to approve the Secretary-General of the Decentralised Administration. There is a relevant case-law on the basis of a decision of the Council of State that the urban implementation plans are not limited to the limits of this particular settlement, but extend across the whole territory. In paragraph 4 of this Article 10 it is inconceivable that we still continue in an outdated and uncompromising way to consult and submit objections. Where it is also posted on the municipality’s website, comments and objections should be made by electronic submission system. In this way, the number of residents and the residents concerned is widened. In Article 11, which concerns the codification of the provisions, there is an issue here with the practice followed by the government in the important issue of codification of legislation, for which the River has been prioritised. In the summer in the codification of legislation, the Secretariat-General for Information and Communication, namely in the competition of licences, has proceeded to the notice and delegation of a particular company in order to entrust it with this task of codifying legislation. The notice was issued on 18 August 2016 and we wonder whether it is ultimately at the discretion of each Secretary-General or Minister, the procedure to be followed for codification. Why, of course, why? The n.e.c. There was a provision for this Commission, which would make the codification. It has not worked, and we need to make sure that it now has to work. Paragraph 8 of Article 11 provides for the procedure for the performance of specific tasks and for the preparation of specific studies to be entrusted to AUIs, to legal persons governed by public law and to scientific foundations. We have asked the committee a question: what do we mean, when we say scientific foundations - if we mean research institutions, if we mean scientific associations - because Ventalia opens too much? The question is why the private sector is explicitly excluded. If there are public-private synergies, the procedures of such an important project will be accelerated, such as codifying legislation. And at a time of intense underemployment in study, law, technical offices, that would give a breath. To conclude, I would like to focus on the implementation of this bill, when it becomes law, because that is the bet. As much has been heard of reform, we should bear in mind that reform is not just a law and ministerial decisions. Reform is a structured programme for the implementation, support and monitoring, not only of the objective, but also of its pace. In Greece, when a matter arises, we are making a law and we think that the issue has been resolved, that the problem has been resolved. No, the big bet's in the app. It is a successful law that is implemented properly and in good time rather than the one that refers to the bells, just to get the obligation out. Here, anti-smoking law is a classic example. Anti-smoking law: two words showing all pathogens between theory and action in the legislative work. For this inertia, for this incompetence, it's not because of any Mrs. Merkel, no Mr. Shoeble, no IMF. It is because we do not want to break the eggs, that we do back when they are affected or unleashed by customers - voters, that we think that it is a good politician who caresssssing ears. This is timeless and, unfortunately, if we do not change, it will also be fatal for our country. So we need an alliance against the client system and populism, an alliance horizontally from all parties of the democratic arch. These forces must come to the surface. We, on the river, are here waiting for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u33	We are closing the list of general and special speakers with Mr Mario Georgiadis from the Union of Centres, which I call on the Step. You have the floor, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sympathetic to you in red, to lighten the climate, since we're few here. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, we have lived again yesterday, as we call it. Modifications! Fourteen have reached the number if I'm not mistaken. I'd like to ask you something. Why didn't you bring them today, have two days at our disposal to study them, discuss them and be able to vote, have time to read them? I already see two, three and even one card paw that has come and now with new amendments. I don't understand. Is there any chance you'll stop legislating like we're in elementary school? Will you ever respect parliamentary work? Our decoratives you want? It's a big wonder from my side. We are now going to this draft law, which, while it seems to be strictly technocratic, hides too many points, which are extremely politically interesting. In addition, spatial and urban legislation concerns the way in which all kinds of projects, infrastructures and buildings are carried out. You understand that this area has been especially marked negative, especially over the past decades. For opacity, inertia, complexity and anachronism, I will mainly refer to my speech, as with the technocratic part we have dealt with in committee, an article to be written, and with the institutions. It is true that there is a lack of coherence in the legislation of spatial projects to date. We are a country in which a major investor in the tourism sector, for example, should be looking for and exploiting exceptions and loopholes so that he can do his job. This, in fact, in a number of cases, as you used to do in the old parties over the last decades, has been traded under the table. The complexity, ambiguity and laws that cover each other are nothing but butter on the bread for anyone who wants to take it, that is, for anyone who wants to be oiled. The investors, in fact, especially in the recent past, knew that there was an informal list of hatred to do their jobs, in towns, in state agencies, and even in state officials and so on. With a simple search on the Internet, hundreds of specific cases can be found, which have even been brought to the courts. We're supposed to go through these pathogens with the current draft law. However, there are several serious reservations both from the productive actors in society and from the political actors. At best, you are accused of atmosphere and a lack of will to intervene effectively in the basic structure of Law 4269, at the worst, they are accusing you of having a post-court party intent to strengthen opacity and interoperability regimes. The pre-authorisation procedure, for example, which enters for specific spatial plans, is by Ministerial Decision to amend the town planning conditions, but which are approved by a Presidential Decree. Representatives of producer bodies and note that this increases the investor’s uncertainty, the administrative burden for businesses, but there are also time delays. I am tabling a relevant article from BSE. [[At this point, MP I of Athens, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] We have also seen that the role of the regional spatial framework is being upgraded at the expense of the specific spatial framework. They now have an important regulatory role and reach a number of cases to replace local regulatory planning. At the same time, bodies consider that ambiguities are now being created in the building-up factors concerning benefits of productive and business activities. During the processing of our committees, interesting proposals were presented to us, such as the TEI of Mr Stasinou, who proposed to set up and operate a monitoring system, the so-called monitoring system, for the continuous documentation and recording of any significant change in the scale of regional spatial planning. Indeed, Minister Stathakis was positive on this, but you do nothing. Why don't you put it forward? What are you waiting for? Is there any allergy to new ideas or technocratic ideas, or rather to ideas that don't come from you? Or is relativity and opacity a regime that can benefit some party friends and some state-owned entrepreneurs? In the committees we have also mentioned one to one of the articles in need of improvement. You have still not given us any importance, neither the institutions nor the consultation throughout. There were considerable interventions for consultation. We have also mentioned to you in the committees and you have still not done anything. What we understand, unfortunately, is that consultation is a decorative process. You do find it difficult to keep even the pretext, because this consultation lasted only ten days, and you confessed that you had twenty-two months to decide what the new spatial planning framework contains, but you demanded that the bodies study it and make proposals and crises within a month, including committees. Even after the consultation, you obviously changed the text by express procedures, without anyone informing about the changes that have been made or the reasons for this. In letter, the Technical Chamber of Greece, a body that knows the spatial planning very well, says to you: "Let the government postpone the vote on the bill and the scientific bodies commit that we can end up with the executives and the Ministry's leadership in the best possible wording of provisions that will be useful and beneficial to society and the economy in the next month." Of course you ignored it on your part. I am presenting in the Minutes an article on this subject. [[At this point, MP I Athens, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] In fact, we are in Parliament near a year and a half now, and I never remember changing anything important because you have paid attention to a proposal or to a proper comment during the consultation. You are simply dealing with social accountability, as I mentioned earlier, as a decorative process. And the urgent bills you enter are imminent. This states that the work of Parliament is also deceiving and treating it as a passive or pretext. When you were opposition, you made trouble for the urgent bills. You were talking about fascism and a lack of democratic process and now you are using the same practice. You have obviously written it all in your old shoes since you took over the government and ruled God’s mercy with ministerial monographs and with a hundred and fifty - three ready to sign it with both hands, in fact, to keep their chair. You were here to say that many things from what you legislate, you don't believe them and you can barely vote them. This attitude is impressive and further teaching for future generations. I wish that the next generations will carefully study the political history of the current period, because that is the only way to put populism and demagogy into place once and for all in the context of history. In some cases, even today, you consider this Parliament as a tool of party propaganda and populism. Even a few days ago you sought to show us that we supposedly do not love citizens because we abstained from voting on the tip, which you would like to give. Is that how you show your love to the citizens? With pocket money? If you were on the road, decent citizens are sure they would return them to you in a bad way. You were told by the pensioners that what you give them is crumbs. Ladies and gentlemen, Greeks do not need charity and do not need money from any pocket money. They need to work, have an opportunity to produce work and find work. Let's go see now, in other words, who's gonna make the best offer. You give 300 euros. Golden Dawn gives a pile. Let's go see who gives the best offer to vote on them. Give also kitchens and mixers and TVs. Make a draw, such as Mr. Papadakis at "AND1", which divides oil and firewood, because I have the impression that Mr. Papadakis himself produces greater social work than you. Unfortunately, these are the mess of our political life in the current period and they are not just now. It's been over the last few decades. You have made the parliamentary work and, in general, the political life that is aimed at instinctive, unfortunately not at the logic and political criterion of citizens. All these totalitarian regimes have these tools and they use, to make democracy a holocaust, as our classic secretariat tells us. So, what do you bring to the current bill? Predictative role in local government. Why? Obviously, in order to weaken it and gain even greater control as a state. You are telling us that the approval of the spatial framework simply requires the opinion of the regional council concerned, which is not even necessary, since the process is continuing without the extension of two months after the end of the study. In other words, regional consultants and administrations are not able to exercise power. You obviously think they're making tourism. That is what you want, and that is what the Minister is demanding, that his party staff intervene at all levels of decentralised self-government and impose a line. It's not the first time you've done it, and of course it's not random. For the Minutes, I will give you all the saliva that has been caused lately, when you have legislated administrative secretaries in local government, when you have predicted party "rambo" to control - listen, listen! - if the municipalities are consistent with the government line. Even the largest municipalities have their objections and have risen up. I submit the relevant articles on the Minutes. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We as the Central Association always tell you that healthy local government can manage even the taxation of citizens. In the United States, for example, the mayor collects the income tax on citizens, not the state or the government. In this way, local government will ensure the necessary conditions for its operation and will give the general government the percentage for education, health, military, justice and so on. That is what common sense demands. Municipalities and decentralised administrations are better aware of citizens' problems, because they are closer to them on a daily basis. But we, and their authority, have removed them and constantly remove them from local government and the regions, but have made them happy with party interventions. Each party rushes to run a local self-government task and put its hand in honey. Ladies and gentlemen, these pathogens must be stopped. I would like to present to the minutes and specific proposals of the Centro Association for the role of local government, as they are directly related to this issue. They have been published for a long time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And not only are you weakening the decentralized administration, but you are hitting once again the private economy, that is, the real market. The competent Minister may entrust specific preparatory work to codification or the preparation of specific studies and research to educational establishments in the country, scientific institutions, institutes, or to legal entities governed by public law. This disregard is, of course, a wound to free competition. We believe that this is how you are trying to extend the opaque and privileged treatment regime 'days'. Therefore, any attempt to convince us that you are seeking transparency and clean solutions with the current bill simply falls into the void. Those who are not experts, those who are not investors or engineers or related to the construction and investment area do not know the size of the labyrinth and the opacity of the spatial planning and therefore the current legislation. We have reservations on the principle and on the articles in the committees. We have a reservation on this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. We shall now proceed as follows: Mr Famelos will take the floor first from the Ministers. He will have the tolerance of time, as all those who needed it were. Then we begin the list of colleagues. The first three are Mr. Kamaeros, Mr. Katsafandos and Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Gregus asked to speak tomorrow. And my replacement will be asked to the Bureau when they want to intervene. If they all want to speak, then two colleagues will intervene, so that the list of colleagues will have been completed by Parliament as well. And because, Minister, Mr. Famele, is Mr. Stathakis here to speak, is Mr. Stathakis here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u36	I'll let him know. Mr. Stathakis will speak at 14.00, but we'll let him know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u37	If he talks at 14:00, I don't know, you completely get us out of programming, because all the parliamentarians want to talk after Mr Stathakis. Anyway, we'll see. Let's not waste time now. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor. The time you are entitled to is ten minutes, but you will have our tolerance, as all Members had.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my position today would only relate to the articles and amendments relating to the environmental aspects of the bill, but let me - and you, Mr President, in my time, of course - comment on the previous speaker. Many times to make an impression - it is not here, of course, now that the previous Member has left - and in Parliament we use great words, 'woody' titles, but they reach the limits of demagogicism. I think in this House and in this country people who know from politics and from history know that the Left has shed blood for democracy. I think I should not even criticise terminology used before for totalitarian regimes. He offends the man who said that word. Perhaps I can say that we cannot formally forgive such terminology and leave it with a great deal of enthusiasm, because we know very well how much the space of Parliament is, how much democracy is worth, how much it is worth, what the Left has done for it and the struggles of all the fighters in our country, the progressive people all these years. We have been trying very hard in these two years to restore, as far as possible, every day and more levels of autonomy, independence of our country's policy and to give the right to citizens and to all levels of participation of active citizens to have a role, to have a right to decisions, to go beyond memorandum commitments, because it is a fact that our country had been subjected to orders from outside. However, this debate is far too far from being discussed by masturbations, populism and demagogues, such as what my colleague said earlier in the Central Association. A second issue we need to clarify is what this law does. We told the committees that too. I will be concise about the characteristics of this law. In relation to Law 4269, the previous law on spatial planning, this law practically democratises and decentralizes spatial planning, in so far as we have succeeded in getting it through the negotiations. Because Law 4269 has never been applied. It has had too many problems of complexity, too many outstanding decisions and arrangements for ministerial decisions and circulars. Also, we're doing more than just operating. We are playing a role in the National Spatial Planning Council and we are also strategically making national planning. We are strengthening the process of pre-approval of regional and local projects. So we give more voice, more rights to regional self-government and local government in contrast to the previous planning. Indeed, we are giving a greater basis to this design in relation to the vertical ministries and cyber-centric logic of the special projects. In practice, the ministers did a favor to their best friends to fit into activities. In order to have one, however, a tool that is equal and horizontal, we are introducing the pre-approval procedure so that in six months at most all the investment procedures know whether or not they can be done. That is how we simplify the possibilities. We do not, of course, grant the power of spatial planning to self-government. But I don't think anyone can blame us for that. In the previous placement we heard proposals for self-government are again being tabled. What does the fantasy have to do with the retsindo, with the specific article in the Constitution, has been said by our rapporteur to the committees. There is competence of the State in matters of spatial planning and town planning. If we did something different, everything would have a legal problem in the Supreme Court, the Council of State. It's clear. But we, by giving roles and characteristics to local spatial plans and regional plans, give what corresponds to self-government, which had been removed by the previous governments. That is why we are democratising and decentralising the spatial planning process, and that is clear. Finally, the functioning of the national council and also the specifications that will come from our side will strengthen consultation, participation and transparency, which were limited by some ministers, with vertical plans, to place fast-track and fast-track activities. That's not gonna happen again. Everything will be done on equal terms. But now let me go to the issues that may concern you and are of interest to you. I shall start with the amendments, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can be effective. First of all, with an amendment, tabled together with the Ministry of Interior, the special burial fee is extended, which would burden all OTAs with about EUR 35 per tonne from 1-1 to 2017. This end is extended because we have now managed to have a new national plan on the initiative of our own government, which is based on European legislation and gives greater importance to recycling, prevention and reuse with specific specifications. Based on this national planning, all RCFs are completed on 31-12-2016, the regional plans together with strategic environmental impact studies across Greece. I think that's worth saying. Our homeland managed, the government managed, regional self-government to cover the term of heresy and to liberate the resources for solid waste management in the WEDN as regional projects were completed. We are moving on to a difficult but feasible plan. That is why I think that the burial fee should be extended since regional plans have now been completed, because we must not relive what the previous governments have done, not invest in the environment and be the country with the most environmental fines in Europe and the worst indicator of implementing European Union environmental legislation. This was the country that we received and we have all lived until the end of 2014: Europe's eve of the environment. At the same time, I think it is worth mentioning here in the House that in 2016 the national hazardous waste management plan will be established and signed, another area for which we are paying a fine. Secondly, so that regional plans and the plans of the municipalities can be functionally operational - so we value self-government, so we change the everyday life and life of the citizen - and to absorb resources in the EMEA, we have an amendment to the definitions and the characteristics of the green points. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] In fact, we support screening at the source. To understand it better, citizens have the potential very close to home now to make full selection of all materials and to have all the materials concentrated on them. And when we say to the recipients, we mean temporary storage. Don't imagine units. We're talking about containers, bins, cadocods, and an equipment in self-government, so that we have clean material streams. So the cleaner material flows we have, the more we strengthen the reuse, resource efficiency, and we are actually heading towards what Europe has announced as a target, the cyclical economy. In fact, with the green points, we are resolving a functional problem of years that all studies have shown, but it has never been in the process of definitions. The Greek state did not define what the green point is and of course did not have a licensing procedure. Now, then, the green points are set out in this amendment. At the same time, these points are defined, in which the social economy and self-government will develop, and they will also include training for the sorting at source, because this is combined with public awareness and environmental education. Smaller infrastructure is also defined in our settlements, such as the corners of recycling and mobile green points. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, reality changes when things relating to the environment and the economy are regulated in everyday life. Jobs are being created and municipalities are being released to claim resources and improve waste management, which the previous governments have not given them the opportunity to do. Thirdly, as far as environmental issues are concerned, it is the management bodies of protected areas. There is an article in the law that prolongs their operation and their funding for one year and suspends the mergers that were planned, if I am not mistaken, by the previous law in 4109. Management bodies and environmental and nature protection are a major environmental issue, but also an essential political issue, because it has dimensions and development and work, but also our country's obligations towards the European institutions. Unfortunately, the functioning of these institutions, environmental protection bodies, has been left by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK for twelve years to be financed by the NRP to start their lives, to function them. It has become a joke in Brussels, too, that for twelve years these bodies of empires for the Greek state were starting their operation. Apparently no one believes us now. When we have been funding a body for twelve years to start, it is obvious that we need a much better shower and a better fuel. That's what the government does. It puts these operators on a different route. And fortunately, with a salvage intervention, which had been done by an act of legislative content in December 2015, their lives were guaranteed for a year, because the national dialogue that was announced in 2014 did this: it reached a point that had not been implemented and at the same time cut off the umbilical cord of funding. This was the concern of previous governments for environmental bodies, but it was, essentially, the concern for the environment. That is why we are in Europe's last position in terms of environmental legislation, because the government did not care about the environmentalists. So we do not just want to announce another extension, so we have chosen it to be an article in a normal law, not to be an amendment, not to be a last minute, and not to be a last resort, after we have agreed with the PHS 2000 committee, with the Green Fund, with all the chairmans of the bodies, but also with the workers' association, so that within a four-month roadmap, with proposals which the operators will send us in a two-month period, we can come up with a proposal, which will cover all the obligations of the country. What is impressive is that this reality that we have been living through so far, that is, twelve years pilot start-up programmes, only covers ninety-five of the four hundred nineteen NATURA 2000 regions of our country, although we have been making money from Europe for twelve years, and in a way we have been creating fast start-ups. We will, of course, extend this proposal to the protection of nature to the staff of the Ministry and to the characteristics of the decentralised administrations, so that we can implement the operation of the forestry, water and the environment sectors, but also to the management bodies of protected areas, which we have to say are not just an integral part of the system of management and nature protection, but, in our view, they must go beyond their protection role and extend to what we call a development tool. That is why we have developed a proposal with four axes - and I think the Greek Parliament should know it from now on - regarding the making available of a state budget for the operation of the institutions, in a perspective after the legislation that will take place in 2017, but at the same time also in the development of services with a reward, at fees from local resources, and also in the demand for competitive programmes. Of course, we are talking about nature management and protection bodies, which will now be in an evaluation framework that has not existed until now because the costs have been small, but the work of these bodies has not been evaluated. By means of measured resources and indicators, which will demonstrate their development function, these entities should at the same time contribute to both the environment and the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that this bill has too much difficulty in front of it. I think if we get a picture of yesterday's publication, our country doesn't have effective town and country planning tools. I read here that in the seventeen years before the previous scheme, only 16% of the studies awarded have been completed. Imagine that no studies were commissioned for all the areas needed for spatial planning, but also from those awarded, only 16% were completed. The urban planning of our country has been difficult for many years, complex, dysfunctional and with little applicability. Why is that? In order to get through and settle the system's best friends, there should be what the Greek citizen wants once and for all to leave the country, the service of our own children, the service through a political lobby. The route from the party director, the MP and the district minister or the minister is to stop in our country and restore the rule of law to spatial planning. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say one more thing. The essential difference is on the one hand that there should be equality and that of the administration at the level of the spatial planning and, on the other, that there should be a strategy, because spatial planning and urban planning have not been strategic, and that is why I think it is a first and essential element in productive reconstruction, fair growth, relaunching the economy and work, that there is a substantial change in legislation. This will be done by strengthening local and regional planning and specifications for the spatial plans and land uses we have committed to being completed by the end of January. Thus, it does open up the way for us to have spatial tools, which are development tools, which have a fundamental democratic dimension and an opinion, and obviously they can feed society and our country so that our minds and scientists can stay in the country and produce for the benefit of Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I would like to refer to a point that the Minister has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u40	About what? Aren't you going to take the floor later?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u41	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Mr Minister, you spoke of the burial fee, the amendment which has not been posted. If it hasn't been posted, how are we gonna talk, how are we gonna fight you? After you had it ready by the committee, what are you afraid of? Because it's still a raffle in the attack? You'll accept her, don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, let me explain for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u43	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u44	It has been signed, filed and will be given to you by the services. But I think we're talking about exactly the opposite. No engraving will be imposed, no end will be imposed, because the municipalities will be able by the end of 2017, with funding now available and claimed by us, about EUR 900 million, to have infrastructure so that they do not pay carpet but also to operate for the benefit of the environment. So we're not talking about a new raisin. You poorly called it that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u45	Read it to have knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has all given me and I shall continue where it has stopped. I wanted to say that we are rather the only country in the European Union that has neither a spatial planning nor a land register. Is that random? We couldn't? Of course we could and it's no accident. What's he doing? It serves all the things that the Minister has said, immunity, to be able to do what he wants and, where he wants, to have the means, as long as he has the government. It serves these strengths, which have the means and of course does not serve the weak. It serves the factorism, the factors that run in the ministries, the MPs on the right and the left to achieve what investors want. Look out! Does all this ambiguity attract investment? No major investor will come to a country with such a vague legal framework. The people we know will come, the grabs. This regime has been in place so far. And we are forced, precisely because there is such growth that serves the few, to resort to designations such as'sustainable development', as if there were or could have been growth that is not sustainable. We also call'sustainable development', as if there could be growth which would destroy everything and would not predict that there must be a saving. And we say 'green', because we want to say that there cannot be growth without environmental protection. And we keep finding new terms. We also have 'blue growth', as we need to see how we manage the sea. We also have the 'cyclical economy'. And we will continue to invent conditions through movements that do well and exist, and fortunately there are, to lay such conditions in development. In other words, there is a class mark in this whole story. And we, as the left-wing government, have a serious obligation. With this draft law that comes now, do we solve the problem? No, of course not. It's a first step. It does nothing else to put the framework within which we will move to design the space, at three levels, as the rapporteurs and speakers have said. But let me say that in this process we have two main problems - take care - as the Left, because we want to change this model of development here and we want to create tools for real development, which will not have to have any sign, because it will be in everyone's interests and for the protection of the environment and all that. One must be growth. So there are two issues. One is how the completion of this plan is ensured. Because we know it takes a long time. Local, regional and central planning must be consulted. And I don't know any design that's been completed by now. To avoid wrongfulness in history, we had cases of good planning. The so-called 'Third Law' of 1983, which very well organized spatial planning and spatial planning in general. Is it done? Never, but in very few cases. Our rapporteur also said how many decrees were taken after and how many did not come out after. No one's finished. Why? I come back to what I said at the beginning. Because they served this ambiguity here that some want to have. There is, of course, the question here: how can we ensure that? Within the four years of government policy are we coming? No, we're not. Of course, the argument we can say 'give us another four years to complete this', okay, we say it, but it is not enough. I think the Ministry should look into ways and insurance controls, which will ensure that and then anyone else who comes, will have some commitments to complete this design here. And one second and final, another concern and one problem we have as the Left in this direction is: what happens then, throughout this entire period? We have a terrible problem, which is being magnified because we have designed our own development, fair development, through development law, through the disposal programmes, the ESDP programmes, and all that would like their tools and all that I said before, land register, tariff, spatial planning, that are not there. How will we ensure that these objectives are achieved here? I say it over and over and over, but because I don't get an answer, I put it back and I'll keep putting it down. Why? Because until these designs are made here, they will continue, for example, to destroy beaches. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'll be about my time, Mr. President. At the moment that we are talking about, within this ambiguity regime, interventions are taking place on beaches from hotel units, without compromising the effects they will have on the wider environment and doing so legally. It may take them two and three years to get approvals from various agencies, but they do. Why? Because there is no broader design, there is no marine spatial planning, which, at the edge of the speech, we should perhaps see along with the spatial planning today, because the marine spatial planning "sees" on the beaches and the current spatial planning that we are discussing, "watches" on the beaches. Another example is this: we cannot already be told by fishermen from some islands, such as Kalymnos, Kos, Rhodes, the Cyclades, that we must protect our fish stocks, because soon we will not have what to fish for, and that we cannot protect certain areas from overfishing or from fishing in certain areas that are normally prohibited! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is not possible at the moment that we are planning a fair growth, yet approvals for new hotel facilities are still being given in areas that are overcrowded and we know what problems they cause for the local population and for local small businesses. What could be done? That's what the ministry has to find. There are suggestions. We know that building work cannot be suspended in some areas, because it's like you're really stopping like you're killing, like you're dying of growth. In the development law, we have put in place a provision which said that ministerial decisions could prohibit certain activities in certain areas. I think that something similar should be planned here too. It is the least that with ministerial decisions - as has been said before, because the government has the power under the Constitution - to propose that certain conditions be introduced for the protection of the regions in the direction of planning that we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. Mr Katsafandos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we really find that the previous leadership of the Ministry of the Environment may have been removed from Mr Tsipras as a failure, but her ghost is still here. Her mentality, unfortunately, is still here. Her curiosity is back here. We ask, Minister, why does everything have to be done at the foot? Why? Do you think the country has this luxury? Do we have this luxury as a country to lose investment, to stick to plans and to trouble the citizens? What have you been doing, then, seven months? So long you wanted to copy - and, in fact, in the wrong way - a law that was passed in 2014? Why did you bring him back half a problematic and untreated paperwork again? This is a bill which, because it is half, because it does not mention at all what is going to happen with the issue of land use, instead of facilitating investment and growth, and thus creating new jobs, which is a great demand, keeps everything stuck decades back. That's because you're political cowards, gentlemen of the government. You are afraid to go into arrangements which affect your narrow party interests, only because you are shaking the elections that are coming and you do not want to displease anyone, because you unfortunately believe you will be saved politically. Gentlemen of co-government, I understand your agony, since Mr. Tsipras' manipulations are once again leading you to dead ends. But that is not an excuse. It's not an alibi for you. So today you have to give us some answers. So we ask this: did you or did you not commit to taking back the miserable long-term amendment tabled by the then leadership of the Ministry of the Environment without any dialogue and with which we returned with a single proposal in a 1987 law? However, land uses that were unknown in 1987 to the legislator are today part of everyday life and are reflected in the place where modern man lives and works. Cities are evolving and changing. But you want to watch as Pontius Pilates. Did you or did you not commit through the explanatory statement, gentlemen of the Government, that you will issue in six months at the latest a new Presidential Decree on land use adapted to modern needs? But you have not only tabled it, but you have not yet sent it to the Council of State. Instead of that, you leave everything on the automatic pilot, blocking the implementation of mainly tourist investments that have been launched on the one hand and on the other by preventing municipalities from implementing their regulatory plans. You know that with the chaos you have created, it is no longer allowed - as was, unfortunately, the case, from 1987 to 2014 - the establishment of new businesses, ovens and barbers, that is, in areas of pure residence, even though they concern the daily needs of our fellow citizens. Banks and travel agencies are also banned in areas of tourism, even though they need tourists. A separate problem arises, of course, by the so-called 'conflict of land use' in the large town complexes. The old institutional framework for the use of land in 1987, which you restored, was found many in conflict with the regulatory plans of Athens and Thessaloniki, for example, since these considered as a central avenue as a whole, while the SGPs of each municipality were dealing differently with each block adjacent to the same avenue. So we have the paradox at the same point of a highway to allow different land use on the opposite side - for example offices on the one hand and offices on the other - or to ban some uses on the other side of the same bare artery. This multi-teaching framework that has created problems for citizens and businesses for decades, but also for a large area of consultation and 'transaction' - not to say anything heavier - at every level of public administration, bring back and intend never to solve it. And I ask, gentlemen of the government: What interests do you cover and serve with this apathy? Who prevents you from moving forward? But let us also come to the half of the bill that we are discussing in fragment today. On substance, the draft law consists of provisions and regulations which are repeated by the previous law, and in many cases are identical provisions which it abolishes. However, what is of particular interest to the authors of the bill is in specific cases the different way of implementing these provisions, the introduction of control mechanisms, with a view to bureaucracy, time-consuming procedures and the direct involvement of the public administration at all levels of approval. In particular, with regard to Local Spatial Plans, a significant change is that it defines as a rapporteur for the approval of the Ministry of the Environment, namely the Department of Urban Planning, with the corresponding opinion of the Ministry of Planning, rather than the decentralised administration and the Ministry of Environment as provided for in the previous law. You are thus weakening local government of the first and second grades and transferring the burden of setting up to a central agency of the Ministry to check. Secondly, with regard to the Special Spatial Plans, which deal in particular with projects, projects or programmes of hyper-local scale or strategic importance, namely the implementation of investment projects, where their approval was earlier amended by the FSC or the ZOE or other form of arrangements, a pre-study approval procedure is provided for in the draft law, following a recommendation from the Agency and an opinion from the CSTR. As the procedure for this pre-approval refers to the adoption of relevant ministerial decisions, with regard to the necessary documents - the approval procedure and others - it is obvious that the attempt to create a bureaucratic and time-consuming procedure, which is also reinforced by the prediction that KESPETIA will only meet twice a year for the relevant opinions. At the same time, they remain the arrangements for the ESRB and the ESRBS, which you described when you were in the Anti-Population tool cut and sewn to serve the investors, who will grab the public property. In fact, the draft legislation proposed by you clearly states that the ILOs, which most of them are for environmental protection, can also be amended. I wanted to ask the rapporteur, Mr Dimitras, if that is what his economist friends know about. Thirdly, while L.4269 for Local and Special Spatial Plans there is a clear reference to which uses are permitted for residential areas, including tourism and recreation, as well as in areas of productive business, the bill makes no mention of permitted uses, apparently because it is in the decision of the Ministry's authority to approve it, giving the opportunity to create opacity outbreaks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute if I may, Mr President. It also appears to be completely inappropriate to abolish Article 11 on digitisation and electronic recording of institutional lines, information and land use. Now that you are abolishing this provision, Minister, we are once again returning to the scheme of the drawings and maps in the form of hard copy, kept in the drawers of the various services, without a single background, with the result that the ordinary citizen or the potential investor is afflicted by this system. Finally, by voting on this bill, time is frozen, as it is not possible to apply until the relevant ministerial decisions and presidential decrees provided for in its provisions. So the spatial design will be found in the absolute gap. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be deeply aware of the fact that spatial planning is together with the National Land register the firm foundation for creating an attractive investment environment. There can be no investment without anyone knowing what they are building and where, without their respective facilities and infrastructures, and without location and interaction with the environment. Unfortunately, you don't do that with today's bill. So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not voting for it at first and we would ask you to do so, if you would like - because the country has no time to lose - to amend these articles so that we can finally have a serious debate on spatial planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u50	And we, Mr. Comrade, Mr. Karras has the floor from the Independent MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a bill in this category really takes time, because its consequences extend throughout the country, throughout society and in the long term up to the next generations. The reality of Greece shows that he had been miserable about the issues of spatial planning and town planning. Very quickly I remind you that the first attempt was made since the 1975 Constitution with the well-known Tritsis law. The general town planning plans came out on a small scale, the residential control areas became and we were all happy. Some attempts were made both in '97 and '99 to organize the space, but they didn't work. So in 2014, a law, n.4269, which speaks of spatial planning and sustainable development, comes. Of course, Law 4296 did not address sustainable development issues. Sustainable development only lived in the title, because sustainable development is something really difficult, is something that is based on real circumstances and cannot be regulated, whether we want it or not. It is a question of technical and legal texts that they cannot include. So this law started and I want to mention a few things. When L.4269 started, we were at a very low level of organization of the site, so that we had no picture of what would come up in the future. Mr President, I would like to present the study to which the Minister referred as a public report on the progress of the projects, which is very low. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the Minutes the above study, which is located in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we come today, about two years later, and the government proposes to replace the law that took place in 2014. The 2014 Act is not complete, but it is not as complete as the law introduced today. I think that one copying each other, and it does not go far enough to deal with the issues. I say that because it makes a verbal change. The word'spatial planning' calls it'spatial planning'. That, at least in my perception, doesn't say anything. At the same time, the rapporteur's report itself shows - and I will mention two, three points - that from the declared objectives of Law 4269/2014 as the main axes of this draft law, it remains - and states in the explanatory memorandum - legal certainty, reductions in the envisaged categories of projects, clear distinctions in planning levels. That is to say, the objectives pursued by the legislation in 2014, the same objectives we have today in 2016. I am not one of them, as I said, to say that the 2014 law was complete. It was an incomplete law, as is today. Why the need for a law? I don't know. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen, I object? Because the law on spatial planning and town planning, whether we want it or not, is institutional. In fact, when he was being discussed in committee, he mentioned an eminent university professor - and let me read out the passage in his report - that he 'is going to take five years to become an estate, understand the law, ten years for the first operation and maturation of twenty-five to thirty years'. So what's today's law helping to do? In my opinion, nothing. In fact, I can say that we also have a regression on two points, an issue which has been raised by all the speakers and rapporteurs. I would, however, like to add something else to the issue of pre-approval of the premeditation. Do you know what issues pre-approval creates with the current conditions of the insecurity of the economy, the insecurity of the country? I'll remind the mechanics and lawyers of the pre-authorization of Law 1650, the so-called pre-authorisation of placement. It is the same thing today this pre-study pre-authorization with the pre-authorisation of a placement. Do you know what we lawyers did when we wanted to freeze and sabotage an investment? Because it was thought that it was enforceable until the amendment of Law 1650, we made a request to the Council of State, we took a suspension of execution, because the damage to the environment would be huge, and we would stop the work. So be careful, Minister. The same problem will be created. I tell you with experience of many decades. Watch out for that. A second issue, which is a backlash to the development effort, is the abolition of the second chapter of Law 4269 on land use. The use of land in 1987 had been overtaken. They were undeclared, and they had to be reformed. Sadly, however, with the optimism of redefining land use, we have now returned to the 1987 regime. In the six-month period it was a statement by the previous Minister, who said he would bring it within six months. It is not a legislative commitment. Today we are again with land uses that will create a stir again. There has been a great change in the conditions of the area. So I think that the bill changes two levels to three, but I do not go into details. I would remind you, however, of this, invoking a consistent case-law of the Council of State, that the regulation of the area, whether urban or spatial, requires - I am reading a recent decision by the Council of State - that the establishment of an industrial or craft industry is not, in principle, permissible. I'm not talking about the off-site construction. It is a passion that holds half the Greeks to build off-project and then legalise the arbitrary, which we will all do either by exceeding the license or at the outset we will be arbitrary and thus be in the spirit of Greek society. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I shall therefore read: ‘Industrial or craft installation is not permitted in an area which has not been recognised by an administrative act as suitable for the development of an industrial or craft activity is not permitted’. What does that mean? That until the design of the Greek area is completed, the same problems will remain, the same disputes, the same competitive interests and will hamper the development of Greece. You will also allow me to table a decision by the Council of State, which has the full history of planning and building in Greece and has the demands of the constitutional and Community legislators for the regulation of the area. [[At this point, the Independent Member, George-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] To sum up and end: The new law adds nothing. It's a repetition of the past. In fact, I can say from the experience I have in the field - I do not claim in many areas of authority, but in this area, allow me to claim knowledge, I do not speak of authority, I claim one knowledge - that we will go back and start from the beginning. Because the prospect of spatial planning is at least one generation. Let us allow the previous legislative regimes to function by means of intervention. We didn't even see the results of the past, if they could, if the government had accelerated them, even pressingly, to work. Now we're starting in the first place and we're waiting. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Carras. We gave you time for last night.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u53	Yes, Mr President, for last night too. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u55	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u56	In order not to misunderstood Chapter II and the presidential decrees that will follow, I think we should reiterate that the specifications of all levels of planning, but also the uses of land, will be followed for legal certainty by the procedure of the Presidential Decree which starts immediately after the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u57	Well, it doesn't exist today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u58	Otherwise, without Chapter II, we are not working. I would clarify that, so that you know our plan and on that basis judge us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u59	As long as the Council of State approves it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u60	Sure. But that gives us legal certainty, Mr Carras, you know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, although I do not need to remind you, that the Democratic Compact with a great deal of perseverance speaks of national understanding as an essential precondition for the country's roadmap to come out of the deadlocks and victorious circles of recession. We are working on a national line of exit from the crisis and the memoranda, with a development and productive reconstruction plan and, of course, social cohesion policies. In this direction we are shaping our own proposals and positions for progressive reforms, support for the economy and entrepreneurship that produce quality jobs, real jobs, as well as for the sustainable social state, which is more necessary at the time of the crisis, but also for many years after. In the context of today's reality, it is now clear that the country, as I said initially, needs to get away from double overtaxation - social expenditure cuts as the only means of achieving budgetary objectives. Production and development reconstruction, economic recovery, the production of new wealth are the only way to meet the needs of Greek society in the coming years and to be able to pursue fair policies. All this, of course, depends on the processes of spatial planning, it depends on what we call sustainable development. Because within the concept of sustainable development it is precisely the reproduction of the wealthy system and, of course, the disposal of this wealth can give us the potential we need. The drama is that the government today has done exactly what it has done since 2015. What did the government say with spatial planning? Whatever he said in 2015. Since you have not experienced, Greek women and Greeks, the most difficult, even though you are in front of the country's outlet perspective and could safely talk about these things since 2015, we returned to live through the closure of the banks, how the capital controls are, how it is a third inappropriate memorandum, how it is not only the lifting of the eleven cuts you say in pensions, but their legalisation and increasing the cuts with new ones, what it is like to experience a "left" way of fiscal adjustment through over-taxation and at the same time cutting social costs. The 'left', obviously, is in introductory terms, too. Just the same thing you do with the spatial planning: you go back to 2014. It can be that the 2014 design in its implementation - we had the indication before - had many problems. Maybe he had fewer problems. These problems may have been solved along the way. So what we had to do about nr.4269 and the process envisaged since 2015 - the logic and what each political leadership had to promote - was to move forward with its implementation. At the same time, where he found that there is a weakness, that there is a problem, that he would amend the law and move on. We say this because, unfortunately, two years have been lost and the current political leadership may not be responsible, but you were the same government. The first Minister for Spatial Planning and the Environment, Mr Lafazanis, may be in another party, but that does not change the situation for Mr Tsipras's responsibilities. Tsipras was Prime Minister. Mr Skourletis, who was an accomplice to this ministry for the process of economic reconstruction of the country, might have put not only brakes but also brakes and boulders to stop any development effort, but he was of the SYRIZA Government with Prime Minister Tsipras. Mr. Stathakis may have had the experience of the Ministry of Economy - and that is where I abuse Mr. Stathakis, politically I mean - with Mr.4212, if I remember correctly, that he voted for public procurement and stuck all the public works, due to the ambiguity that was created and even though there was the general provision until April 2017 that tenders could be made as a transitional stage. Thousands of four hundred and thirty small and large projects of the NRP have been stuck and this process has not gone ahead. We have very few examples in Crete, and not only from this process. Mr. Stathakis comes in, who has this negative experience from the Ministry of Economy, because he did exactly the same, and returns from the beginning. We cannot experience new problems from the outset, when the matter should have gone ahead. Even now it should go ahead. In any case, we are criticising this regression, especially in cases where, while you may have finished 99% of a PWN study, a urban study, etc., you are turning it back from scratch. You'll have to see that. Those assigned and advanced, their progress has been certified at a rate, they have to be completed with the previous framework. You can't take them back. Of course, Mr. Stathakis did. He was Minister of Economy and Development. At least when he went to the Ministry of the Environment, we hoped he'd have a mind to fix it himself. Unfortunately, he doesn't fix it, he perpetuates it. Of course Mr Famellos made a statement earlier, which is in a positive direction. If it comes right away, we have wasted time, but it will be good if the land usage system is to come immediately, which is necessary, so that this whole development process can be established. I'm closing up with the accessibility of S.H.I.E.L.D. We must say that the effort to integrate into economic and social life, and the obligation, I would say, is much wider than the simple concept of accessibility to a ramp. Accessibility must be said to be a broader issue and can only be achieved by integrating the disability dimension into the entire spatial planning. It's not enough, after you've finished a project, since you've come up with the FCWC, since you've come up with the urban study to say that it needs a ramp or something about accessing people with disabilities. The whole spirit of spatial planning must be inspired and influenced by our obligation to ensure the accessibility of disabled people to social and economic progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u63	Put a perfect one, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u64	Yes, Mr. President, I'm done. That is why we are proposing the participation, representation of ESEMA at the National Spatial Planning Council. I am presenting, on account of time, the specific proposals made by the ESDC in specific articles proposing that specific provisions be added. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "KappostyRia" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-one students and two students from the 1st Grade of Spats. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Iglezi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, when the government at the time voted for Law 4269 in 2014, we had reacted strongly as Opposition. It was a purely monumental legislation, in which the government at that time understood the negotiation with the institutions, attracting investment, the value of public property in the system of spatial development and clearly democracy. Law 4269 had been deemed to be necessary reform for a system of centralised, bureaucratic and dysfunctional. However, what it was trying to achieve was the creation of a pro-investing climate, ignoring the coherence of the design system and the grid of environmental protection and residential areas. He also adopted a philosophy of mixing the uses of land that primarily obeys business choices and oligopolistic directions. Today we are pleased to discuss key changes in this law and in the spatial planning system that he has introduced. It is clear to all of us that this is not a comprehensive review of the current law nor of the principle of spatial planning that we would suggest if we wrote on white paper. However, a number of amendments are proposed which we consider to be essential and crucial for restoring legality in the planning of the area and for coordinating development efforts. The first step in this direction had already been taken by the abolition of the provisions of Law 4269 on land use, provisions that have resulted in legal chaos, undermining the cohesion of areas of residence and environmental protection. Colleagues and colleagues, to strengthen employment, to create a favourable investment environment, to economic development, in the end, to the country's productive and social reconstruction is an important responsibility for the state. This is not the case with a reasonable concentration or statism, but with the responsibility that it has for the protection and sustainable management of natural, cultural and social resources and for a fair and balanced distribution of resources, goods and services in society. So spatial planning is the tool that prioritises the priorities, steps and long-term objectives of the development process with a view to the public interest, which reflects the strategic vision developed on the basis of the autonomy and synergy of the various fields of social and economic life, which should pass through negotiation with society for the future of the space and the countries. This draft law therefore seeks, in the light of all the above, to address the deregulation and the problems encountered by the application of Law 4269. The basic changes resulting from this are described in three axes: Firstly, priority in general planning, in relation to sectoral experts. Secondly, the re-establishment of the National Spatial Planning Council as a social dialogue instrument. Thirdly, integration of the concept of sustainability and environmental protection. In particular, it strengthens the content of the national spatial strategy in order to form the basis for coordination of sectoral policies, providing, inter alia, general guidance on spatial organisation, as well as policy guidelines on land use and the exploitation of public property. Rehabilitation of planning levels from the national and regional level - strategic planning - at local level - regulatory planning, urban plans. It explains their distinctive function and expressly provides for the need to coordinate the underlyings in the directions and principles provided by the above-mentioned design levels, while providing for flexible procedures to address problems of coordination and interaction, with a view to legal certainty. The role of the regional frameworks is strengthened so that, until the completion of the spatial planning system, they are a tool for coordinating and compiling individual sectoral spatial planning guidelines and for the development policy of financial instruments. Re-establish the term ‘specific spatial frameworks’ and are placed at the level of design that corresponds to them, as they are sectoral. It improves the way special spatial plans are incorporated into the spatial planning system in order to prevent the establishment of a parallel planning system, which has maintained and strengthened exceptional arrangements with adverse effects both on the area and on legal certainty. The procedure for pre-approval of specific spatial plans shall be established where existing regulatory provisions are required. The ultimate objective is to transfer the examination of the terms and conditions for the approval of the proposed projects to the original licensing procedure in order to strengthen investor legal certainty. Sustainable development policy shall be strengthened and their spatial planning system as their main objective shall be identified. Environmental protection is an essential condition for strengthening the economy, investment and employment, as well as promoting social cohesion and justice. It is important that the bill amends the protective framework to the strictest, including the elements needed to protect the landscape, the cavalry, the beach, the rivers, the lakes and streams. It is clear that proposed amendments interfere crucially with the logic and application of the current law, defending the public interest, environmental protection, the coherence of policy planning and legal certainty. It seeks for citizens and investors to be able to build and exploit the land, where it is allowed for everyone without exception, for some without false rights to build or operate, without the right of the most powerful. This will mean legal certainty: equality, organised state and environmental protection. All of this proves that it is neither in vain nor inappropriate to attempts to process policy, with a long-term horizon in the suffocating context of economic crisis management. Colleagues and colleagues, however, beyond the spatial planning system, this draft law regulates another very important issue for the natural environment: financing the management bodies of protected areas, and the suspension of mergers, the abolition of certain management bodies for a year. This is how a safe solution is sought, without blackmail, while at the same time the government is taking the initiative to legislate a complete and permanent system of management and administration of nature protection areas. Supporting and exploiting the institution of protected areas is our central choice and we believe in their operation as local development tools, along with their role and obligations to safeguard the natural environment. This means that the support of management bodies, through this legislative intervention, is not just about extending their operations for another year, but is laying the foundations for a substantial effort, with the aim of putting forward a legislative initiative, as the Minister has already announced, has also reminded the Deputy Minister. A legislation, which will describe the establishment of a permanent architecture of the management system of all the NATURA 2000 regions of the country and the integration of the funding of players into the state budget, for the Public Responsibility Section, in order to upgrade the national system of protection and conservation of the natural environment and biodiversity and to enhance the potential for its development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. Mr Fokas has the floor from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the reform of the system of spatial planning and urban planning is a basic prerequisite for strengthening the country's development prospects. The bill that comes to replace or improve Law 4269/2014 certainly represents an important step forward. But I don't think he's dared enough. There are specific frameworks in place, but you will allow us to see what is described in the paper is done in practice. I believe that, for the purpose of finally implementing a reliable and efficient spatial planning in the country, the remarks of the relevant authorities, such as the Technical Chamber of Greece, should be taken into account. I am referring, for example, to the objections raised in a recent study by the Department of Central Macedonia of the TEI with regard to specific spatial plans. The Special Spatial Plans must exist. We also find them in other countries, but as a tool for limited use. The fact that for two years after the adoption of Law 4269/2014 the technical specifications of the local spatial plans were still pending, while the technical specifications of the Special Spatial Designs were adopted almost immediately. This suggests that we are going in the opposite direction. After all, we are living in a country where the exception is often established as a rule in the process. We therefore consider it necessary to prioritise integrated planning and then follow the use of the remaining tools that the law provides for. A second observation concerns the Athenian-centric planning system, namely the fact that decentralisation, which you too are evangelizing, is not taking place once again, as basic procedures in the planning system affecting local communities are still being conducted by the central administration. This obviously involves the risk of bureaucracy and delays in decision-making. I think that the new law should become more regionally friendly. To disperse responsibilities once in order to achieve the desired objective: decentralisation where possible and transfer of responsibilities to the central administration only where necessary. It would be unfair to overlook that there is a serious effort in this bill to attract investors and to create a favourable business climate. It is clear that so far the inefficiency of spatial planning has been added to a number of negative factors that have prevented the country from investing, such as bureaucracy, higher tax rates, political uncertainty. In this context, it is at least important to take a step in the direction of spatial planning to make it more investment-friendly and entrepreneurship. As I find it particularly positive that the Executive Committee which had come to the National Spatial Planning Council is to be abolished, with the chairman of a political committee, the respective Secretary-General for Spatial Planning and Urban Environment, who was also presided over in the Council, in relation to the original experienced scientist. The law now defines as the chairman of the board of scientists of recognised prestige in spatial planning. The members shall be reduced from twenty-one to nineteen and the consultative role of the Board shall be strengthened. The troika or the institutions, as you baptized them, had to come to the second assessment to pass bills that had to be passed and implemented for decades. Unfortunately, we are giving the image abroad that we alone cannot implement reforms if the tomacle is not above us. And that, ladies and gentlemen, does not honor us at all as a society. In conclusion, I would like to refer once again to the promise made by the Prime Minister in September to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. He had promised that the debts of the OAU insured would be frozen soon to the fund. As we all know, in recent years, debts have been created by the free professionals to the fund. And these debts relate to over 50% of the insured. We are given a unique opportunity from 1-1-2017 with the new calculation of insurance contributions to the OSH fund to increase revenues in the good of the fund and in the good of the state budget. I ask the government and the Prime Minister to keep this promise, because we have not had much time left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Mr Kalafatis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the law which we are discussing today, like Mr 4269, which is trying to amend through this legislative effort, unlike what has been said by some colleagues, has not been made within the framework of specific memorandum obligations. What does that help us? It helps us to see, precisely, what each political force represents and what it represents, without there being the fig sheet that the government often uses, that we are obliged to do so because it is a Memorandum of Understanding, shedding crocodile tears. Here, then, we are essentially dealing with the complete revelation of a government which has deep anti-development features and believes in the deep state. And I'm explaining: Let's start by talking about L.4269/2014, a law in all its development, with which our government tried in 2014 to reverse bounces of decades, fight bureaucratic philosophies and give new directions of organising the structured space in the coming years, while setting the foundations for creating a clear investment map with which each potential investor can know what activities he is entitled to launch, where and in what length of time. What is the government doing today? After she has wasted time maintaining a law - a tool in hypnosis for two years, she is going to amend it in order to perpetuate strangles and make it difficult for every investment activity that we have tried to facilitate. I will come back in more detail, but only mention the following feature. We have tried to lead the country to a digital future of spatial planning, so that each investor can move quickly, flexiblely and with the least possible involvement with the relevant state services. The current government suspends this prospect and restores the process of guise, stacked files and bureaucratic hardship for every investor seeking to put money on the Greek economy and create jobs. If this does not constitute intentional regression and ideological hostility towards private investors, how else could it describe? I will prove to you that this practice followed by the SYRIZA Government in general - ANEL is also served by the draft law we are debating today. We, as a government, after ten months of consultation, legislated to reduce spatial planning levels from seven to four. We have, at the same time, limited the time for the approval of the city plans to two to four years, instead of the five to twenty years envisaged until then. We launched the creation of a digital map of Greece with the institutional lines, forests, aegialos, NATURA regions, archaeological sites, reafforestations etc. and we reviewed the twelve regional spatial planning frameworks. In essence, ladies and gentlemen, we have created a roadmap for regulating the national area, with the basic philosophy of the tripartite: a few plans, clear guidelines, quick procedures. And we did so in a way that responds to the country's current needs, while he cures, at the same time, issues and conflicts that have occurred in recent years. We have laid the foundations for a clear spatial and urban regime, which is equivalent to a safe investment environment at spatial level, but at the same time we have also taken care of the real protection of the anthropogenic, natural, cultural and residential environment. With the new structure, we have produced a complete clarification of the binding or incomplete nature of the individual projects and introduced two new design tools, the Local Spatial Plans and the Special Spatial Plans. Local Spatial Plans as a development of the GSPs, the General Urban Plans, are now integrated tools for the development of either a municipal unit or a whole municipality. They can even be exploited at an inter-university level. Accordingly, the Special Spatial Plans have made it possible to regulate matters of major or strategic importance. At the same time, clear action was taken in this law to update and categorise land uses according to the current needs of society and the economy, as well as to eliminate distortions of the past. I would also remind you that for the first time we accounted for about six thousand codes of activity of the Ministry of Finance and the uses of land. What, however, has happened almost thirty months since the resolution of Law 4269/2014, which was then classified as class and town planning reform? Last May, without consultation and with late amendment, the provisions on land use were abolished despite the recognised need for redesign and coexistence of land use with the needs of modern entrepreneurship. So we returned to the forecasts of the old presidential decree 166/1987 with the categories of land use that are adapted to the needs of the 1990s, a carabinat backwards with the seal of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. In every decision this government puts us on a time machine in the past and every time we just look for how many decades it will stop. As regards Chapter I of L.4269, which is currently being discussed for spatial planning and sustainable development, the draft amendment consists of provisions and regulations which are often repeated identical to those abolished. See Articles 1 to 13 and you'll understand what I mean. The trap, however, also the intentional regression is the different way in which these provisions are applied. This includes establishing control mechanisms aimed at bureaucracy, time-consuming procedures and a direct involvement of the public administration at all levels of approval with apparent results. For the Local Spatial Plans it is responsible for the responsible department of the RIS instead of the decentralised administration. This weakens local government, first and second, after shifting weight to a subordinated central agency of the Ministry for the Monitoring, Approval and Promotion of Local Territorial Designs from the total of three hundred twenty-five municipalities. For Special Villages, the pre-authorisation process is provided for, a pre-study following a recommendation from the service and an opinion from the Central Bank of Cyprus. "Get the egg and hair off," says our people in such cases. It is obvious that the intention of creating a bureaucratic and time-consuming procedure is to meet twice a year for the relevant opinion. In addition, while there is clarity of permitted uses for the residential areas, including the use of tourism and recreation, in the bill there is obviously no reference to be in the crisis of the Ministry's service that approves it. On what criteria? Is this an investment incentive or an incentive to interact with so-called corruption wars? I have already referred to the abolition of Article 11 on the digitisation and electronic recording of institutional lines, information and land use. Instead of a single RIS database that will remove overlappings in planning, the government is coming to abolish the future and returns us to the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u71	Finish, Mr. Kalafatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u72	In a string of drawings and maps in the form of hard copy in the drawers of each public service. Ladies and gentlemen, we used to talk about the monster of bureaucracy. Today, we can say we've found out who the father of bureaucracy is. The father of bureaucracy is the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the boulder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u73	Mrs Antonopoulou has the floor to support some amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity has tabled two amendments to the bill which I want to present briefly. These are the amendments with a general number of 830 and 831, and both concern improvements to Law 4430 which have recently been passed on to the social and solidarity economy and its institutions. In particular, Amendment No 830 proposes that we extend to six months the deadline for existing enterprises registered in the Social Economy Register to investigate whether they can be converted into a social economy operator, in accordance with what is set out in the new law. The initial two-month period was judged to be particularly close, since the existing undertakings should examine what is provided for in the new law and on the basis of them to decide which legal person they want to become. Amendment No 831 also relates to improving the transition procedures from the previous institutional framework to the new one. Law 4430 allows social cooperatives or cooperatives, if their form violates points of the new law, either decide to convert them into another legal form in order to continue their business or completely cease their operation. In particular, the Act provides for a period of thirty days to register the conversion or announcement of the closure of operations at the competent DU. The amendment we are proposing adds the 90-day deadline for the completion of all legal procedures, either for the conversion of the company, as I have said, or for its solution. In addition, the provision of clearing shall be added, in accordance with the provisions of Article 22 of Law 4430. The aim of this latter provision is to avoid, particularly in the case of a solution, cases where an undertaking makes use of the beneficial provisions of the law relating to the operators of KALOS, a social economy and then becoming a normal enterprise. The above actions must be notified by the Joint Committee or by the workers' association in the Register of Social and Solidarity Entities. The term of the winding-up and distribution of the property to the members of the entity will dissuade it from such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. Mr. Consolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to believe that yesterday's phenomenon will not be repeated, Mr President, where dozens of amendments have been tabled in this Chamber, so that parliamentary activity will benefit at a very critical time for the country, when, in fact, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government claims that this bill gives a boost to development and the prospect of this situation, which we really want to attract investment. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today rather than improving and updating the institutional framework created by Law 4269 in 2014 is trying to cancel and interfere with their basic principles. Mr Kalafatis mentioned this in detail, and we saw that it is clear that the government's attempt to control, even through the choice of degradation, specific spatial plans is made. Some do not realize that their delusion and obsessions are in complete contrast with the real needs of the country. L.4269/2014, which we had brought and voted for, was initially aimed at reducing the categories to two, simplifying procedures, and at the same time highlighting the specific spatial planning on an equal footing with the over-peripheral regions. That law was intended to reduce the overlap and the contradictions between the different levels of plans, thus giving special spatial planning the necessary independence, above all, speed of completion of the design. We had set the above objectives in that law because quite simply the country needs investment and development. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are now coming and putting in the way of this effort and especially of large-scale investments, particularly in terms of tourism. I shall refer, for example, to Article 8 by which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government sends another negative signal to all those who want to invest in tourism and in particular for large and strategic investments after seeking to suffocate the Ministry of the Environment to any investment or activity. Of course, it does not dare to abolish specific spatial planning plans. However, it ensures that they are weakened after the approval of the Ministry of the Environment for the specific spatial plans and the studies of a large strategic investment, while ensuring the agreement of the Central Council for Urban Affairs and Disputes, is provided for. So, what's the Department doing? Involved in investors in an endless pilgrimage, forces them to study, spend money, and the development of this is uncertain. In this way it is certain that there will be considerable delays and obstacles to the realisation of a major strategic investment in the tourism sector and not just that. Wait, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to create an investment climate and an activity climate in the next period under these conditions? At the moment, after the cancellation of the National Spatial Plan for Tourism, everything is in the air while there is no development planning - Mr Skrekas mentioned in his report and here and in the committee. In this case, the National Spatial Planning Strategy should be created, on the one hand, and then there should be a spatial planning strategy for tourism, that is, an additional delay. And all this, of course, may be limited by the National Spatial Planning Strategy, as clearly provided for and brought up under Article 5. However, a question arises which has not been answered in terms of the time and procedures for approving the National Spatial Strategy. And this question arises beyond the problems arising from the functioning of the National Spatial Planning and on a specific basis from the National Spatial Planning Council, which will intervene at every level of planning of any investor and, more generally, on the Special Spatial Spatial Frameworks. However, since this Council will meet every six months, we all realise that there are great delays when the country does not have an ally per year. The country needs, ladies and gentlemen, investment and new jobs that it needs from yesterday. That is why I do not understand the importance of the government with Article 9, which determines the rates of building for each use. Are you sure that building coefficients will not have to be changed again, Minister, when the bill on new uses of land is submitted? One problem that we will find before us is the term 'farm use' for the new general category of land use, to which the agricultural land is subject, and in which, apart from the possibility of building houses, there are few other productive activities, such as mid- and low-purpose workshops, agricultural tourist units, 20 bed hostels. This will characterise horizontal areas outside the project as agricultural land and ban all types of investment aimed at tourist use. I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that the only structural element that characterises the legislative initiatives of the government is the rough design. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, it is a given need for a Special Spatial Framework for Tourism. The 2009 framework, which is in place, does not meet the needs of a new reality. At the moment there are bans and obstacles to investment in tourism and to develop tourism in 80% of the country. As you can hear, ladies and gentlemen, yes, there is a restrictive condition in terms of planning for the whole of the business world and the people of the market to invest in the country as a whole. There are, for example, no separate spatial planning guidelines for cruise tourism, for the tourism of pleasure boats and criteria for the location of tourist ports. If there are no stable spatial planning guidelines, it is clear that there is uncertainty and there is no institutional shielding and safeguarding of investments. The new regional planning plan for tourism we all consider it necessary. For the New Democracy, you should know that it will be next day an important element of its own activity. From the start, the country's spatial planning for tourism must have a dynamic element. It must have potential and not static, as it is today. It should respond to the needs of the modern market and take advantage of the comparative advantages at national and regional level. Not to be linked to horizontal bans, but to separate cases. To promote new tourist products and attract large-scale strategic investment for tourism, because these are the investments that will increase tourist revenues, attract tourists with high incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, in these senses, they show that the government has contributed to a useful policy for tourism, and I think, Minister, that there is still time to incorporate the points we have submitted since the morning, but also to the committees. At the moment, tourism policy is expressed by just one word: taxes. We must all help to remove this and the government must be friendly with investors rather than hostile, as it is today. That is why we point out that there is still time for you to incorporate the labels and thus move the country forward. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. Mr. Karastasis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law the Government amends to individual points and codifies Law 4269/2014, which it also replaces, in order to strengthen the coherence and functionality of the spatial planning system, while at the same time seeking a balance between development needs and the protection of the natural and man-made environment. The truth is that not only the law that is replaced, but overall and over time, the Greek system of spatial planning is based on an incomplete institutional framework, the result of a fragmentary and un vision of political implementation. In fact it is limited - and I am not saying it, but the Citizens' Counsel in a special report - to the post-consumer validation of events and activities. Things that are self-evident from decades in the European Union and not just space remain an inappropriate dream for our country. Does the new Republic's ladies and gentlemen say anything to you, more broadly, to the parties that have ruled the country since World War II, the word 'land register'? Are you proud of this? It corresponds to the path of the long-term land register and the course of the spatial and urban planning of our country. For example, I will mention the policies for the establishment of the refugee populations in the Middle War, the policies for the reconstruction of infrastructure and the healing of wounds left by the Occupation and the Civil War, the eruption of the conflict while abandoning the countryside in the 1960s, the unregulated and unconditional development sought by the 1967 dictatorship and the fragmented, fragmented and unplanned actions of the post-government governments. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer you to a Sunday newspaper entitled "Without urban planning, half of Greece. 53% of the country does not have a specific housing development plan, depending on the needs of each region." It's from the "Cathemerine" of Sunday. It is stated in the report that only fourteen general urban plans were approved by Law 1337/1983. From 1997 to 2014 only 16% of the country's municipal units, other than Attica, acquired an approved General Urban Plan or SPC based on the successor legislation, i.e. Law 2508/1997. I'm tabling these in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Apostolos Karanastasis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Antonis Tritsis, with which the first real project to organize the Greek area was attempted through a genuine spatial planning framework. However, quickly, the country came back on the occasion of short-term events, such as the 2004 Olympiad, in the same distorted model of non-sustainable development and overconcentration, which ignores rural areas and in general areas which are not judged as areas of tourism and which in fact wastes material resources, without aiming to rationalise and improve the unequal spatial development model. Thus, through the abandonment of the spatial strategy at national level and the prevalence of unregulated development, we reached the property bubble that broke with deafening noise as soon as the economic crisis began, proving that we were betting as a country in the wrong way to the wrong stimulus of economic stimulus. L.4269/2014 appeared as a reform of a design system that was found to be centralised, bureaucratic and dysfunctional. It was intended to create a pro-investment climate, addressing the coherence of the design system and the environment and housing grid. It was a Memorandum Law, not because our Memorandum imposes specific spatial planning provisions, but because it is a law based on the development logic that governs it. Thus, with regard to the existing system, it was in practice annulled in the general spatial planning framework - the one our country acquired in 1997, to imagine - the cancellation of the coordinating role of the general spatial planning framework and the abolition of regulators. In this way, the integrated approach with hierarchy of strategic objectives and the interaction of planning levels was replaced by the sectoral approach, in which strategic guidelines at national level are subject to the strategies for developing specific productive sectors and investment initiatives. SYRIZA, along with the entire scientific and technical world and movements, has been placed from the outset against Law 4269/2014 and as a government it continues to support the country's productive and social reconstruction, the strengthening of employment, the stimulation of entrepreneurship and ultimately economic development. It does not necessarily require the withdrawal of the State from its responsibility, nor for the protection and sustainable management of natural, cultural and social resources, nor for a fair and balanced distribution of resources, goods and services in the national territory and in the social body. We are committed to amending Law 4269/2014. With the draft legislation under discussion, among other things, the specific spatial frameworks, for example, tourism, industry, RES - tourism has already expired - are placed in their place as sectoral and not national, as false documents had been baptized. Regional spatial planning frameworks are strengthened, while local spatial plans which replace general urban plans and SPCs, the Open City Spatial and Settlement Plans, adopt a stricter protective framework. Significant changes are also foreseen in specific spatial plans to prevent the establishment of a parallel planning system and a particular emphasis is placed on strengthening legal certainty. In other words, a number of amendments are proposed that I consider to be essential and crucial for restoring legality in the planning of the area and for coordinating the development effort. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The draft law before us prioritises concepts such as environmental protection, sustainability and soil and landscape protection. Finally, the rational distribution of activities within a given area rather than a development of specific sectors is emphasised, and the investor who is first given a clear framework for where he can intervene and where he is not. The practice of derogation procedures proved to be incomplete and time-consuming, because there were reactions at the stage of implementation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, with the proposed amendments to the draft law being discussed, it is crucially interfering with the logic and application of the existing law, defending the public interest, environmental protection, the coherence of the policy of planning and legal certainty. It thus shows that it is neither in vain nor inappropriate to attempts to process policy with a long-term perspective, despite the suffocating framework created by the management of the economic crisis. Strengthening the economy, investment and employment, while protecting the environment and promoting social cohesion and justice, is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u79	Until Mr. Sevastakis comes to Stepma, I'd like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-two students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd General High School Argos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Sevastakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, "And so Alexander entered the cities". This ends the homonymous film of Theo Angelopoulos, in which the mountain hero ends in the city, that is, he becomes a regulatory political parameter of the city. It is unresolved the contradiction which has been established in the relationship between housing and the countryside, in the relationship between agricultural production and urban production. All these great contradictions, which were mainly dramatized after the civil war - during the civil war and after the civil war - have not found their institutional solution and remnants, monuments of these contradictions, which also hide political and cultural differences, are the various legislative strata, nor the vain attempt excluding Antonis Tritsi, who reminded me that he has just submitted the planning of the regulatory system by the government. It is certain that the Greek city was ordered politically, organized under a political mandate, and essentially as its objective was the self-reservation, the self-development of the city itself, it did not come from a productive option, from industrialisation, but backwardness, industrialisation was nailed to the city, the new city, the post-Balaisian city, the mass city, because somehow it had to find a new usefulness in line with the European perception of the modern city. Under these conditions, with this detachment and the formulations with production it legislated. Because there is a meticulousness and an exaggeration in the Greek political scene, it overdetermined, so that the legislative arrangements remain at the side of a completely unjust, totally arbitrary, totally self-regulation, which then came another legislature to legitimise it. He was making the arbitrary and you had to find the shell to then legislate, the legal shell to legitimize it then or set your political career. There was an industry selling legalization and integration of areas in the town plan. Too much of the political scene and political perfection is due to this monstrousity. I think the notion of the market has also been abused. Remember the Greek fast track long before the memorial wards, which were licenses on junta, which have given birth to islands with ghosts of cement monsters, which, because they were out of design, have been left dead. On the other hand, however, there have been few cases of centralised planning, centrally designed, which have produced a result and which we are looking at today. Remind the design of Pikioni in the 1950s, to recall the "XENIA" premiere of the group Constantinidis, to remind me of the work of the building, where we have small samples of a rationalism, which cannot be nailed into a reality that cannot withstand it. It is very indicative, Mr Minister, that I should refer you to Asyrmatos's apartment building in the suburbs, on the edges of the Petronians, which was a - let's say - an attempt to draw up a plan, in contrast to the opposite "Imperial City", the one that was used as a decor in Alexandraki's "Drea" dream, which is in fact in an archaeological site, inside the herd. These contradictions have not been resolved and I fear that the way in which the political scene and the self-government scene are structured and the administrative scene is making planning rationalisation very difficult. In any case, the bill seems to me to try the scales of local and strategic to bridge them. It is trying to leave a piece of production freedom, allow them, organize them and at the same time not to leave the concept of control. Interestingly, in many speeches any version of the check is considered to be a kind of bureaucratic barrier. In other words, instead of being a deviant control tool, it is considered an obstacle and even a development tool. It is a misinterpretation, which shows that as a political system, as a self-government system, we cannot build, regulate, structure, that is to say organise our cultural co-decisions and the way we co-exist. I think, therefore, that these requests - very ambitiously, are the truth - are trying to satisfy the bill and it is certain that the statement is not final. Moreover, the way of implementing - and Mr Mavrotas said so - will play a decisive role in the way in which every regulation will not become a tool and an obstacle, or because a local guardian wants to prevent his opponent from competing with one another or because the planning of lawlessness, planning of not being provided for, not organising, not regulating anything in that country, is a good thing. I think that the example of Spain with a development that has surrounded the country, a completely mistaken tourist perception, with huge pharanonic hotel projects, which have badly relied on development, teaches us. Tradition in our place is the tradition of the small scale, it is the tradition of the measure, it is the tradition of the intelligent spatial exploitation, the way in which the house can be intelligently assimilated to the space and also not to conflict with the productive identity of the area. And the production identity of the site is not to be postcards. The productive identity of the site is to be rural, to be productive, to be the subject of walking cultural carp. With these considerations, I think that we can see very interesting regulations in the bill, which I believe or hope will be implemented in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u81	Minister, you have the floor, after Mr Sevastakis' proposals on the organization of chaos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Sevastakis will lure me, it's obvious. I share everything he has said and even more what he has not been able to say. I am sorry about the New Democracy, which is now in a dual mood. Firstly, he should talk about the great overthrow of the spatial planning of this party, which has a long history, indeed, in the regulation of the Greek area. It's reflected at all levels, I think, this profound commitment to spatial planning. We see that, looking at anything around us: the industry and its location, the tourism of our city and many other achievements, which it claims to be overturned by the current plan and the destructive, bureaucratic, state-run concept of SYRIZA. The second thing they insist on is that large investment projects in the country are overthrown, that the introduction of this draft law discourages investors. Apart from the fact that they do not stand up to such a disastrous economic policy, they will not stand up to the huge problems that we bring to investment in this bill, assuming that there is a spatial framework - at least that the New Democracy implys - and rules and that they are settled spatially, that discourages investment. It doesn't encourage them. Investors are lovers of the chaotic system of the New Democracy, the spatial planning system. This is an original theory, but it is no longer in line with the current reality, because this attachment of the New Democracy has explained it very well, and Mr Sevastakis has explained it very well, in the abstract arrangement, in the exclusion of the exception, in the violation of the rule, has only been aimed at political mediation and inevitably at the establishment of political sustainability strategies for a political body which - I repeat, what is handed over today, and is only tested as anachronism, as a deterrent to the type of development that this country wants, and inevitably deterrent to the living conditions and rules that the citizens of that country have to bear and are entitled to. I'll be a little on general finances, because there's an obsession invoking that the disaster starts with the economy and the government SYRIZA - ANEL. Although these destructive wordings were disproved in 2015, a difficult year, today they are in total mismatch, in 2016, returning. But the data on dream 2014 is simple. In January 2015, when we came to things, first, New Democracy had some loose ends. Not even 10% of the evaluation phase it was. Secondly, it was foreseen that the completion of the second Memorandum of Understanding would result in surpluses of 4.5%. Thirdly, there is a business case in the New Democracy that, in view of these surpluses, the economy would grow in 2015 and 2016, if New Democracy were still in the process, at an outrageous rate. The reality is obviously very different, and in 2015 and 2016 the present government - I repeat for once - has a specific economic policy and can be judged for it, but there is no lack of economic policy. This economic policy had four objectives. In this economic policy, the government promotes and assesses. I would remind you of these aspects of policy. One axis was fiscal stabilisation. I think that both the 2015 results and the 2016 results have discredited anyone who considered that the government's budgetary policy has no objectives, consistency and effectiveness. As a result, we are now being judged and not at a level of speech. The second axis was the restoration of financial stability and the recovery of the banking system, so that it could finance the economy, and this was done through many different stages and by recapitalisation and by integration into the European system and by the development of a framework for the management of red loans, with the impairment of ELA, etc. And, of course, with the prospect of an even stronger banking sector through integration into quantitative relaxation. The third axis of our economic policy was to seek to have a much more friendly business environment that stimulates entrepreneurship in our country, youth first of all, since this is an important axis of our development strategy. There is a whole process of the bills that we have voted on to simplify the procedures for the establishment and operation of businesses, to normalise all bureaucratic procedures. At the same time, we voted for bills which restore transparency in the public space, public procurement, that stimulate entrepreneurship, open up markets and access to public procurement, as well as a large number of other changes that concern the functioning of individual sectors of the economy. I repeat that they concern all this entrepreneurship facilitation system with more competitiveness, more business space and, at the same time, more transparency in the way in which it operates. Our fourth axis, on which we are also judged, is what we promised from the outset, that, as far as possible, we will take the greatest possible initiatives to support the poorest sections of Greek society and stronger social cohesion. I think that, as far as our potential is concerned, from the first bill of the government until the day before yesterday, the measures we have taken for pensioners, this whole thread goes through the government's policy from the beginning to the end. That was our economic policy. This economic policy is to be judged. I think that the statistical data presented from time to time draw from the hair some simple data from the economy with this economic policy: firstly, 2015 was a year with much weaker recession than forecasts made by the institutions and by us. We had a limit to zero recession. So the economy lasted in 2015. There were many reasons for that. The second and most important is that in 2016 it is now recorded as the year of full stabilisation of the economy and turned to a positive figure in the second half of 2016, with a better prospect of recovery in 2017. That's the data. I believe that they are inconsistent with economic data now, because we are judged by the result. I repeat that the economic policy of the government has been formulated directly and consistently and has been credible and can be criticised - I imagine it is also legitimate - as to its structure, whether the structure of this economic policy is correct, if the tools used by each of these sectors are correct. But, in any case, this is far from the idea of a disastrous, incompetent, ideological or any other government we hear. Let me enter this bill. You have to decide whether it differs or does not differ from the previous bill, because at one time you blame us that 90% is the same and, on the other hand, you blame us for making basic cuts in the previous one. However, when you come to what is happening - because there is indeed a common objective with the previous bill, but there are also significant changes, it seems - we will be able to define precisely the level of the debate. This applies to all the sides of the House, because it has been heard that we are not too courageous or we are not making any change, and we are just as much as the previous one. I have the impression that we are indeed keeping a very large part of the law, but on absolutely crucial issues we are creating some areas, which are very important for the spatial planning of this country. Here we have to make it clear right from the outset that we are inheriting a situation - which I do not know why the opposition so defends it - which has had too many problems. To start with special spatial planning. I hear about the special spatial planning tourism. Let me remind you once again that the procedure under which it was drawn up was illegal. That's what the S.T.E. said. In other words, the previous government, which was then, did a procedure, created a special landfill for tourism, but for which it forgot to convene the members of the Council, forgot to convene various institutions that had to convene and voted for it, triggered it. And he goes, of course, to the S.T.E. and rejected. The criticism of this situation is obvious: or someone did not follow the procedures, because he forgot it, he neglected it, or the landfill itself had such problems, which did not go beyond those procedures provided for by the law. It wasn't typical, it was essential. Someone bypassed the procedures because it didn't pass that landscaping. Let's make up our minds. I in committee said it directly. There's no gap. It's 9:00. We didn't leave tourism, the previous one is true. Let us make it clear because I have heard many anthems in favour of tourist investments, which the "short" Government is preventing us. Let us make it clear: we have a special spatial plan, which has and also requires changes in substance, I repeat, because it was not a procedural problem, it was a procedural problem that was combined with a fundamental problem. So we agree with the New Democracy that this is not the case for special villages. We keep the special villages, but they will have different content from the previous one, it will not be identical. He'll follow the legal procedure. A further field will therefore be restored in which the legacy is too bad to very negative. The same applies to a large part of legislation, which has never been implemented. In other words, the balance sheet of the previous regulatory system is a disappointing balance sheet. Mr. Famelos mentioned the evidence. Only 15% of the studies have reached a stage of integration. We're talking about the big spatial planning of the whole territory. So the report - we repeat - is too negative. So the questions are two and I will answer them. The first question is whether this plan answers these questions and creates better prospects in order to move forward. The second question is whether or not this planning is developmental. Allow me to reflect on the basic principles, the three levels of planning, to say what the rules introduced by this bill are. These are three levels, I would remind you: national, regional and local. At national level, only frameworks and rules are developed. There is no tight national spatial planning strategy. All aspects of the rules, plans and basic guidelines of spatial planning are formulated at national level. It is therefore a text of principles and a framework of rules, which deal with all the major central ideas, which spatial planning along with the sustainable economic development of the environment and others should follow. The second level concerns the regional planning frameworks. The content of the frameworks at this level is reinforced, by this law, as it includes guidelines for the structure of the regional area and for the protection, of course, of the natural and cultural environment. The annexes accompanying the regional frameworks now provide guidelines per municipality for general land use and building conditions to be taken into account until the introduction of the Local Regional Plans. The critical level is the Local Spatial Plans. That's what happens at the municipality level. They cover the whole of Greece. So the log of design is the Local Spatial Plans. These replace former General Urban Plans. They cover the area of the entire municipality. They will be approved as long as their harmonisation or their compatibility with regional frameworks and similar projects by neighbouring municipalities is checked. The contents of the Local Spatial Plans hereafter include the definition of the spatial development and organisation model. They effectively replace former General Urban Plans. In addition to this local level, the strong rules for spatial planning, which includes all elements of land use, housing and other development, as well as individual themes, which are now binding on this regulation. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The approval procedure shall remain at the Ministry's level. I repeat that our availability has been and is to strengthen decentralisation, but it is a constitutional check, the state is responsible. The decentralisation with the local municipality is thus maximised to draw up this specific local plan and at the same time we maintain the constitutional requirement for the approval and decisive competence of the state in this matter. Let's get into Special Spatial Plans now. There has been a debate, as you know, on pre-approval and I want to be quite detailed on this point. The Special Spatial Plans, as you know, are plans which are carried out by way of derogation from certain rules. Thus by their nature they must follow a special procedure in order to assess whether and if they may derogate from a rule. Therefore, the frequent invocation by investors for the Special Spatial Plans is partly justified, but partly unjustified, because we are talking about the Special Spatial Plans, which are trying to solve a major problem, which I repeat for those who have a sense of spatial problems, should also have a sense of enormous amounts of industrial, tourist, productive and so on, which for decades could not be licensed through a normal process and which have inherited huge problems in our country. This is where the legislator is called upon to formulate the terms and conditions under which the possibility and necessity of investment projects in all sectors will be compatible and the need to derogate from the principles of the general rule applicable in an area. This, by its very nature, is a special procedure. It can only be a special procedure, which must also be shaped under certain conditions. So, in order to amend an existing local or an ZOI, etc., we need a decision of the Central Council on town planning, which can give an opinion on this derogation. This decision is obviously made following a recommendation from the services which substantiate the need to amend, in view of the specific nature of the development pursued, business, productive development and so on. The pre-approval mechanism - I repeat for once, precisely to understand what this mechanism is - is being done today in strategic investment? I'm asking again the question. What is the procedure for the strategic investments in which the scheme is maintained, even with some possible modifications to be made in the future? A project is being submitted to strategic investment. This plan has a pre-authorisation and consultation process because it is introduced in a way by the investor, the services examine it, they find possible amendments to the proposed plan or, if appropriate, through this consultation process, we are going through a procedure in which the derogation, which it uses through the process of strategic investment, is approved. The same applies to the special peasant. This is the pre-authorisation mechanism. The pre-authorisation mechanism enables the investor to be provided with security, that it is able to proceed with a project - at the level of a draft, that is - through a specific procedure. On the contrary, as in strategic investment, if there were no response mechanism in the first step, whether or not something is done, then the procedure can result in a decision at the end of this procedure, positive or negative, with all that entails for the risk, for the studies, for the costs. I have heard many arguments, appeals and so on, but they are being made at the end of a procedure. On the contrary, here we have the green light from the first day, if it is or is not possible what is proposed. This creates legal certainty, and then creates and justifies all the procedure until the final adoption of this plan. So it doesn't reintroduce bureaucracy. On the contrary. He's trying to create the simplest bureaucratic process. I can assure you that the system will be very light. I heard it could have up to 60% of the final studies. That's not true. The rules that come out will justify, I repeat, the simplicity of this process and the security with which the investor will know that he can go ahead with studies, permits and so on. until final authorisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u83	Have you finished, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u84	I'll be done in two minutes, Mr. President. There are points of criticism, I will answer two of them. The first is whether it is implemented and how quickly the law will be implemented. We are, first of all, committed to the specifications for local villages and new specifications for special villages, that it is possible to make the specifications public directly, in January 2017, and next month the specifications for regional and urban studies will be followed. In March there will be two presidential decrees on the contents of the programme approval and modification process. So our commitment is within three months to have issued the relevant presidential reports on the law's effectiveness. The second point is whether there are prerequisites and conditions to make the design. I would remind you that prerequisites are forest maps, beaches and other important prerequisites plus the Land register, which we have said about 20-20. For forest maps, 50% has been posted and it is planned to be validated until November 2017. We are talking about forest maps that have been pending for years. The delimitation of the hayalus, which is the other major issue, will be finalised by the Secretary-General of the Public Property by December 2017. I think the debate reveals that, at least in the promotion of these laws, the infrastructural work has been done. I recognise that the implementation and training of all local projects is a process for which realistically we need to see the time that all local projects can be drawn up. Of course, the state's concern is - and I think there are several thoughts about this - that the necessary resources should be available for the municipalities to move towards a very large section that needs to be done, which is the training of local projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. Plenipotentiary and Vice-President of Parliament, George Vartenmenos, is seeking permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u86	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The first of the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Maniotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have listened very carefully to the comfort with which you described the positions of the Government and the Ministry for the bill under discussion. But in the same comfort, let me tell you that you have described a set of illusions about land planning. I'm telling a minister I know he cares about development. But here you come to deal with an issue that I fear has not been properly informed of. I will try in the minutes that I am given, the twelve minutes, to describe why you are leading to a completely deadlocked road, which at the end will have a sign, which will be outside the country, and it will say: "It is forbidden to invest in Greece by Mr. Tsipras". So I begin by saying that we should finally get away from this condemnation led by the country after the various 'roots' which Mr Tsipras put at the expense of the country. Today the Prime Minister speaks from the same hotel in Crete, where he threatened the markets to dance pentosal. Unfortunately, the dance of Zaloggos is danced by Greek citizens and not by the markets of pentozalis, who do what they want, having Mr. Tsipras as their persuasive organ. Just because Mr. Tsipras has done his great thanks to Mr. Symble and has given him what he has fought for all these years, to create the supremacy of colonialism, so that for the next ninety years the country's public wealth will be sold by a majority of strangers, we as Democratic Association once again state that this law will change it. It will be the law that will change so that the national Parliament and the Greek Government have the upper hand in the way in which public property is exploited. We've blamed the government for being on the left. Now, however, another one begins to appear: fornicators. They are cutting apart by making 90% of the previous law, Mr.4269, and the remaining 10%, which is new, is the absolute catastrophe, as I will say immediately afterwards, in what they are trying to change. Minister, if you want to add a positive note to your work, you withdraw the law, you bring points of amendments that are needed by No 4269 and then you see that you have the entire national Parliament with you. I'm starting with my first observation. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the large strategic investments approved by presidential decrees - the well-known ESDP and the ECHR - which we have established - and therefore under the control and legal certainty of the Council of State - there is something that, in my opinion, is much more important. It's the little fast track. We are talking about the possibility of making small investments of EUR 2 million, of EUR 5 million, of EUR 7 million, and of being adopted at the end with the same legal certainty as strategic investments, namely by a presidential decree. Minister, with regard to the Special Spatial Plans, we now tell you to put in the intervening the famous pre-approval decided by the departments and finally by the Minister. You know, I imagine, the Local Spatial Plans, as they are today, go through the Council of State. So what are you afraid of legal certainty? Why are you putting in an interim stage, which will be adopted twice a year - six months after the investors have made a ministerial decision saying how pre-approval will be issued and how will the pre-selects be submitted, which will take place after a number of years of presidential decree? I am sure they have not described you what a mine you are putting into the country's development process and to enable an investor to have speed and legal certainty when he wants to invest in this place. Look at it and I am sure that with the experience you have as a professor of finance and as formerly responsible for development, you will see that this mine must be removed. The second point concerns the Local Spatial Plans. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that Greece had seven levels of planning and we abolished at least two. Greece now has five levels of planning. The other countries usually have four levels. We've reduced bureaucracy. Here the government is now coming and putting in an extra stage, the Local Spatial Plans, the old General Urban Plans, so that colleagues who have no specialization in planning can also understand. What do you say, Minister? Do you know what you say in the law you testified to us? Local Spatial Plans will be made at the level of a town, not a capodist. In other words, if a central municipality, the Municipality of Argos, which has seven other ex-capodal municipalities in its own unity - or if Rhodes wants, which is a huge island - wants to move on to a town plan, in a local spatial plan, it must do for all the villages of the whole municipality and it is forbidden the central Argos, the central Rhodes, the central city, Mytilini in Lesvos, to do its own thing. What peasant has recommended this to you and who has told you that if a mountain village, the last village of a municipality, has not gone ahead with its study, should the development of the rest of the mountain village, which is fifty or even a hundred kilometres away from the city centre? A second mistake is the following. Put the Local Spatial Plans at the level of a Capodistrian municipality, in order not to drag the whole process through incomplete time delays. Another major issue concerning Heraklion, Volos, Yannina, Patras, Argolida and many other areas is the question of Housing Control Lives. Listen, at one time, an incorrect process has been introduced. The Household Control Zones are presidential decrees. To change, they want a presidential decree again, that is, they want to implement a Local Spatial Plan. Do you know what you're doing? You have not yet taken off the specification of Local Spatial Plans. Why haven't you taken them out for two years now? Why did we catch up in three months and draw up the standards for the Special Spatial Plans, where are the small investments? Already, at the moment, more than thirty microinvestments have been deposited, but they have been frozen. You haven't approved anyone and they're waiting. They're in "pipeline" and they're waiting. The specifications why didn't you make them for the Local Spatial Plans? What made you a commitment - not primarily to you, Minister, since you are a very few weeks Minister, but are a representative of a government and an idea of the entire government, I am talking about the previous ones from you - what prevented you from making specifications for the Local Spatial Plans and for two years no municipality can do any kind of intervention, because the Ministry has simply not made any specifications? How unthinkable! In order to approve the Local Spatial Plans, on the basis of what the government is proposing, we are drawing up a competence that the regions have from the Regional Planning and Planning Councils and take them all to the central state. I've heard your Deputy Minister and you talk about decentralisation. You are probably talking about the opposite, about over-concentration in the central state of all the responsibilities for spatial planning and town planning. The Ministry's subordinated services will be loaded and the work that regional decentralized administrations have to do so far. All of this without even having any specifications. Do you think that by such procedures you are promoting growth or rather putting a 'prohibited' one? Third process, third observation, unthinkable prediction. Mandatory, he says, if you need to revise some spatial planning, you have to wait five years to revise them. Minister, you remember that a few months ago - you were also present - the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, wore his good words and made the opening of the TAP pipeline in northern Greece, Thessaloniki. I have had the honour of negotiating, ratifying the House and environmentally licensed the TAP. Do you know this within how long it's happened? They happened in two years. If there was the law you are introducing now, the TAP could not be done, because we simply had to wait five years to change the basic spatial arrangements of northern Greece. Change it. Let the old predict that, when there is evidence, then before five years, it will always be possible, through the Council of State, to revise both the Special Spatial Plan and the Local Spatial Plan. Next observation. Unthinkable! You, colleagues and colleagues, do you know any country where, when an investor comes in and says 'I want to make a tourist unit or an industrial unit in a region' to say 'we don't have a land usage system'? Greece that wants investment, which wants investors, who go on travel to Brussels, New York and others, wants you, but it can't tell you where to do what, because the land-use system that we had established with Law 4269/2014, the government canceled it, two years has brought nothing and we still expect something to come we don't know after how many months and at the moment the Presidential Decree of 1987 applies. Greece of 2016 tells the investor: "I will place you on land use, based not on what they had decided in 2014..." - were bad those who introduced it at the time - "...but what I had institutionalised in 1987". Minister, even now if you submit a presidential decree to the Council of State, it will eat you six months. For two, two and a half years, the country is without a system of land use. I am sure you understand that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. Last comment: Remove Article 11 of Law 4269. I am absolutely certain that no one understood that. I'm just saying that. All of us, when we wanted to go to a service, to see where we can do what, to answer this basic question, each service said to us: Town planning, for example, said: wait for me to get the drawers out of the maps. You're done from there. He told you to go to the office. He opened his drawers and took out other maps from the Forestry. You're over there. Now go to archaeology, let archaeology tell you if it allows you. You're done from there. He was telling you to go to the State Building Agency now, because with the cavalry, I don't know what's going on. And after you were done, he was telling you, to see what the general town says. An incredible range of inefficiency and indecisiveness. With Article 11 of Law 4269 we changed it. And what did we do? All this, which are the so-called institutional lines, general urban, aegean, archaeology, forests, forced to join a geographical information system ready, where by pressing a key from your mouse, he tells you at that time in the place where you've clicked if town planning allows you, if archaeology allows you, if the cavalry allows you. We tried and applied it in Kosani Prefecture. We tried and applied it at the Athens Regulatory Organisation. It's ready. Why are you canceling this, Minister? Do you want investors to come back to open the drawers and pull the maps and never be able to tell them with legal certainty what to do? There is a political way out of this. The only service you can offer is to leave! The country needs a change of policy, a change of correlations. We need another government, a government with national understanding. And the Democratic Reconciliation, as it has insisted since 2012, will help in one direction, because nobody can do alone. Neither can Mr. Tsipras alone nor Mr. Mitsotakis. Only the whole pro-European forces in the country, who really believe that this place has a future, can give an answer to the problems of the national economy and the Greek people through a national understanding. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. Mrs Karakosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u89	After Mr Manatis's very warm speech and his urge to leave, it is true that we need to see what we are doing right now, what this law says and where we end up. So our government, after a year of hard negotiation with the lenders, reached an agreement to amend Law 4269/2014 - despite the fact that we really would like to abolish it and build someone else - with the new draft law that we are bringing today. With this, then, our draft law seeks a balance between the needs, the climate of insecurity of investment law and the protection of the natural and man-made environment. Especially in the elements in need of protection, the landscape, the agialos, the beach, the rivers, the lakes, the streams, the mountainous tumors, as provided, Mr Maniatis, for all these to be defined in advance, i.e. they are delimited. The planned amendments at all project levels concern the first part of Law 4269/2014. Its second part, which concerned permitted land uses in various areas, such as housing, as well as the area of productive and business activities, was already abolished by our Government, as the abolition of this serious form of land use was our primary concern. Soon it will be replaced by another presidential decree in our own logic. In particular, the first part, in Article 1, adds concepts, such as the definition of sustainable development. This is how the definition prioritises the purpose of spatial planning. It upholds the spatial plans towards sectoral sectors, establishes the design levels in a pyramid, at the top of which is the national spatial strategy, which continues to be co-ordinated and supervised by the RIS, submitted to the cabinet for approval after the opinion of the National Spatial Planning Council and announced to Parliament. Here there is a retreat to the institutions, because this really should also be done, considering that Athens Regulatory is law and the National Spatial Strategy is not. So we expect that when we get out of the commission, we change that point. It is also important to know that the National Spatial Strategy is a key tool for shaping the national policy on sustainable spatial development and the basis for coordinating spatial and regional plans, investment projects, as well as state and local government programmes. And it will, firstly, give general directions of spatial organisation, as well as sustainable development of subsections of the national space and wealth, and secondly, policy directions of land and use of public property. At the same time, it promotes the re-establishment and strengthening of the National Spatial Planning Council, which will be the role of social dialogue and the formulation of an opinion, rather than the formulation of government policy, as it proposes the abolition of the Executive Committee with president, the Secretary-General of Spatial Planning, which would be a government body, which would replace the National Council. It shall also, as President-in-Office of the Council, re-establish a recognized authority of the area. The following design levels are then placed: Special spatial frameworks, which are sectoral and provide guidance per municipality. The regional planning frameworks are in line with the guidelines of the specific spatial planning frameworks, but at the same time coordinate, specialise and complement, so that their coordinating role is strengthened. Local spatial planning plans, which replace general urban planning plans, include the definition of the spatial development model and organisation at municipal level, as well as the total land use and conditions and building restrictions, the specific spatial plans which should take into account, in addition to the national spatial strategy, the fiscal and national development strategy and Union policies. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] It is important to provide for the preparation of urban renewal programmes or environmentally important programmes, as well as for addressing the consequences of natural disasters. It also provides for the possibility of modifying existing local projects and ILOs, as well as permitted land use and any disputed uses. And there is also the prediction of the town plan, which replace sewerage, given that town planning is more comprehensive and wide-ranging. At all design levels, it is also important as a time for the stakeholders to be consulted to set the two-month period so that the drawings in drawers do not remain. In any case, environmental protection is being promoted. Finally, the first part introduces the optional pre-authorisation procedure for special territorial interventions in the region for the first time, so that any investor in the region will know the uses and interventions in advance and the terms and conditions, as well as the prohibitions. This is how the citizen, the investor, the environment and fair proper development in the country are protected at the same time. We hope for a step - a step by introducing a wider dialogue process with society and in the near future having the Land register and forest maps, to avoid defining the design of markets but the state and the state. To avoid overconcentration, to develop the region properly, not as was the case until now in fragmentation and solely on economic criteria, but with a high interest in the environmental footprint and the development of social and cultural provision, so that the daily lives of the people of the region are whole and interesting, so that the inhabitants of the region want to remain in their place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let us not forget that the development of cities and settlements was done by private fragmentation and planning and, of course, by rebuilding arbitrary, without the responsibility of the citizens, since there was no planning by the state. We need - in short - a state that plans to define our country's potential on the basis of the scale that this country has. It is true that we need to stay for too long, because these designs and their performance need time. And in order to get them right and not to see closed beaches, creek constructions, no growth in mountainous volumes, islands with great tourist development and islands without tourist development, agricultural land, in which we put photovoltaics and all these evils, which we see until now, it is true that our government must be left with our own many more years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u90	And Mrs Karakosta has completed the list for the speakers today. We are starting with the Parliamentary Representatives, with Mr Helios, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. The previous speaker said that the SYRIZA Government should remain in the government for many years. Just, if it stays a little further, not too many years, a little longer if this disgusting government remains in power, surely there will not even be Greece to rule, it has destroyed everything. The only pre-election commitment that has been made by undocumented Tsipras and his partner, Mr Kammenos, is the one that said that he will open the borders and bring the relatives of refugees - he invited them and that is why we are filled - and the other, Kammenos, that he will fill Europe with jihadists. He makes such statements from time to time. In fact, you Right and Left, all in here, who are voting for mosques, for all these laws in favour of refugees, refugees, as you call them, all this, the weeping and anguish that falls here in this Chamber every time we talk about illegal immigrants, sleep alone at night? Something like last night, which Europe is drowning in blood, killing innocent people, who have gone to make their purchases, shopping, having fun, doing whatever they want anyway, quiet and thinking they're safe in their homeland, sleeping alone? It feels so good to all of you, welcome here, who have opened the border! You slept last night! Of course, your responsibilities do not only remain at the border of our country. Your responsibilities have crossed the Greek border, they have spread throughout Europe, because of all those who invade our homeland, some are fleeing and, at the same time, they are filling Europe with blood and with hatred of Muslims. Nationals and Christian symbols are hitting all over Europe. A continent, characterised by security, was characterized by its culture, today is a continent that has been transformed into a continent of uncertainty, insecurity and Muslim hatred. The other day, we had another incident with an Afghan who killed again in Germany, incidentally, a young girl. This human being - because you're a human being when you hit, rape, and kill a fellow man in this way, you're not a person clearly, no matter how misunderstood, you don't belong to the human species - he had passed from Greece, he had made a stand in our country's prisons. By law - why are you fighting - of Athanasios had been tried as a minor and by the Law of Friday, because you both have - and SYRIZA and the New Democracy - responsibility, he had been released to continue his criminal work in Europe. What it has not succeeded, thankfully, in Greece has continued it in Europe. So SYRIZA opened the border. New Democracy is constantly being cut off if illegal immigrants are not having a good time. The New Democracy is voting for mosques, it has very great sensations. When he was in the government, we remember someone else unexploited, Treasury, pose in front of the air conditioners and say that we have them here in whoa, we have them with the air conditioners, with the cooling and heating, as he had mentioned. Of course, it comes to my mind that eventually your only difference is the brand of air conditioners, that rather with the next government air conditioners will be the 'SIEMENS'! You don't have any other difference. Everything else you're voting on together. After becoming all these tragic events in Europe, the long hand of the world system, of global governance in Greece, those who characterize them as "familiar-unknown", "hoodmen", "young people", who have been fond of them all these years, have said to do some revolutionary exercise! I would like, please, to present to the Minutes some photos and show them here. You see here very nice pictures. It's not a war zone, it's not Aleppo, it's not the coaches from Aleppo, it's the trolleys that burn your comrades! Thank you very much. These are for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is what happens here in our beautiful Greece. In Turkey there has been a fact that in the next few hours, days, it may be weeks for who hides behind this murder. That's why he was killed - he was probably murdered - and the shooter, to delay the revelation of who was behind it. We'll find out very soon. I hope we don't find out in a bad way. I would like to read our communication on yesterday's incident, which took place in Turkey, because no channel of course presents our announcements: 'Golden Dawn expresses its deepest sympathy for the loss of Ambassador Andrey Carlof. The Islamic parastate of Erdogan is the natural and moral autocratic of this crime and is a major danger to security and peace in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East." That's just how it is. No one, of course, has the courage to say it. Golden Dawn is the only one who can tell things by their name and hope, I hope, once again, what happened yesterday not to find out in a bad way. I'm closing up with a very pleasant news. Today the “News” did not come out. On Sunday, the "BAMA" may not come out. These are very pleasant news about the extraterritorial editor, which has been plucking all these years into our homeland. We also wish the other para-state powers, which supported all these years the powers which have destroyed our homeland, slowly going away, to empty the corner, because the golden dawn of Hellenism will slowly rise. We don't need them either. They offer anti-national work and they will do well to go home for now and then to prison where they belong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Heliopoulou. Now, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative would normally follow. There is one issue with the parliamentary representatives. We're done with the speakers. Mr. Xydakis was next, to explain and inform the House. He's got an emergency job somewhere. It is followed by Mr Kefaliannis, who also asked, because of an urgent sudden work that happened to him, to delay a little. Based on the list, the next one was Mr. Karathanasopoulos, then Mr. Danellis and Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr. Papachristopoulos, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u93	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u94	Come on, make it easy for you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. I will not avoid the temptation to say that we are relaxing a little in the holiday days, while our obligations continue today and tomorrow. It is a polite comment, for parliamentary representatives. I want to see this draft law from another perspective. Many years ago I first went to the Netherlands and specifically to Amsterdam for a medical conference. I went up from the main station to go to Lightser Play, and I thought I was living in a fairy tale. I don't do Amsterdam advertising, but I want to say that. I saw old buildings, preserved buildings, later learning that they are four hundred and five hundred years old, canals, like Venice, etc. And I thought I was living in a fairy tale. I'm telling you, honestly. It had made me a terrible impression that this city had been kept almost selfish and intact, as some had built it hundreds of years ago, I am not talking about dozens. I had the question. I say: 'Well, guys, there are new buildings, don't there?' There are, they tell me, they're outside the Amsterdam area, Dimen and other areas, which I saw later, mathematical buildings, etc. It was not confused, however, by the old, traditional, which highlights tourism and economics a country, with the new one. I would also like to refer to two examples where the latitude of profits and the market has not affected or, at least, to a very small extent, has affected. These are a few points in our country, such as Mykonos, for example, where the building - in its honor, mutatis mutandis - took a stand very well, I would say very positive, and so this island kept its traditional character and became a point of reference and attraction almost all over the planet. Something similar is going on in Santorini and in other islands and not just, as there are three - four parts in the traditional Mediterranean, for example, in the mainland, which have actually maintained their character. They are reference points, that is to say we all know about the villages of Pelion, about Metsovo and many other things that I do not want to mention. Conclusion: It is therefore important that any power in this big matter should be chosen. And we have, unfortunately - I want to be honest - the example of Athens. It's not the best. Those who have visited capitals around the world see incredible things: apartments built next to each other, old houses have disappeared. You remember what happened in that decade, shortly after occupation and later. In fact, with few exceptions, Athens is not an example to be imitated at the moment, I am sorry to say so, even though terrible efforts are being made, such as the Acropolis, Ghazi and other points. So this bill is coming. I'm a doctor, I'm not a towngirl, and I don't like to shove my face where they don't sow me! I cannot know the details Mr Maniotis knows, many of whose proposals I have seen positively and I would say that we should listen to them. By one difference: Biology admits virginity. If there were any crimes, they were made by others, not by this government that is in power, namely in governance, two years, because power I don't believe it still has it. And when I hear crazy things, criticism, etc., I say "Little kids, where have you been so long?" Because virginity is a real thing in biology, but it's rare. This is where it tends to be everyday. I hear hard criticism from morning to night. Mercy! Tell us first what you didn't do and we got here where we arrived. How did Athens become that thing we all see? To have a total park in the Mars Field and another one in the Constitution. What's that thing? Whoever's been to Copenhagen will see that every two hundred meters there is a park. You say, "What's up, guys?" The whole of Athens, where half the country's population lives? Leave the police, the way the region was ignored. I don't want to say any more, because I'm not an expert. But I stop at the current Minister's commitment to the following three: Firstly, at last, this register, which has been so afflicted - and we have not seen it - is committed - and I like that it does not say 'fast commitments' - that by 2020 it will be ready, it will be completed. You know very well that it prevents investors. All the countries of the European Union have a real estate register. We're the only exception, and some would rule then. Dear colleagues, low tone and self-criticism! Suggestions, yes. I have listened with great respect to Mr Maniotis, and I think that some of his proposals will be heard by the Minister. Secondly, something I was pleased to see, too, are the forest maps. In % of their ratification until November 2017. It's a commitment and we'll judge him if he makes it. I don't have to say what's going on in the woods and what's going on. You'll take a walk and you'll understand why we're talking. Thirdly, something that is very important to me, because my home happens to be on the beach: At last, this thing that happened with the cavalry, where there is no access for ordinary citizens, to see it change. Let's see something finally done. You know that billions of dollars are being played in this area. To conclude, I would like to say this: the constitution of the market, this constitution that some people have as a picture and have defined it - all for profit! - to give his place to the constitution of societies. And the first thing is the ecological consciousness of these societies. Where did this regiment drive, I'll be tiring and I'll say it. That is the constitution of the market, then. A rating company can blow up a bank and a country overnight. It's the same constitution that made eighty-two tycoons have assets as much as three and a half billion poorer on the planet. The same constitution that made the elite not manage 75 trillion, which is real GDP, but more than 920 and when the bubble explodes, dig into societies. This has to end. And I believe that the proposed bill is in this right direction. And he tells you this, a man who has nothing to do with mechanics or spacebase or anything, because I was a thirty-seven-year doctor. I want to believe that it is a start that will work economically for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Kefaloyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, on behalf of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, to express our grief and disdain for yesterday's attacks in Berlin and Zurich and, of course, for the brutal murder of the Russian ambassador to Turkey, as well as for the events that have taken place in the last few days in Aleppo, Syria, where civilians are slaughtered by all sides. Unfortunately, these events underline in the most tragic way the major threats and challenges of an extremely difficult and unpredictable era. They also recall that combating terrorism and terrorists is a collective matter that should be a priority of all European countries. And it is our duty as a country to contribute with all our forces in this direction. We must seriously and determinedly safeguard the principles and values of Europe, which are security and freedom. With regard to our own, unfortunately, last night there was a night of fear for some of our fellow citizens, for workers, for students, for parents, who had the misfortune, courage or, if you like, for the courage, as it turns out, to choose to move around with the trolleyeye around the well-known - you will allow me the term -'milk village', which has now become the region of the Exarches. Unfortunately, it is once again clear that the security and freedom of citizens to move by public transport is for the inhabitants of this city - and not just - the one demanded even today, which comes in 2017. Every day, of course, we have similar incidents. Attacks against the Police in Exarchia, against the Ministry of Trade in Canigos, against the power station in the CSD. You must tell our Greek fellow citizens that you do not want or cannot stop this chaos. And, indeed, I wonder what else must happen in order to react. So, does all the bus fleet have to burn? Should citizens stop moving massively by means of transport? Because at this level of misery and disgrace the government has led the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the political staff here in this country have been very well aware, for many years now, that spatial planning has been the basis for any development strategy. From the last hierarchical administrative officer to the relevant Minister, we all realise that a rational spatial planning is, in fact, the key to attraction and, above all, to the realization of investment. You'll allow me to do a parentheses here. I read yesterday the implementation of the budget and the government has not made much progress in implementing the Public Investment Programme, in fact, one billion euros less than planned. And, ladies and gentlemen, you know what that means. That one billion of investment in European funds, with which investment should be made, of course by boosting the economy and employment, is not actually exploited. And, unfortunately, this is not just a government incapacity. There's a feasibility here. We are undermining growth, so that we can have less cash costs and celebrate over-performance of the budget, because in fact the government has allocated the so-called 'tenth-third pension' - and I say, of course, because within the country, Mr Tsipras celebrates and says that we are giving a tenth third pension, but when she goes to Germany, she says that it is a one-off payment. Diplomacy and bilingualism here too. We have EUR 1.4 billion of revenue from overtaxation and 2.4 billion, according to budget implementation, less expenditure than under-financing of basic public functions, the attitude of payments to private individuals and, of course, the abandonment of the Public Investment Programme. And, of course, you put false dilemmas, whether New Democracy is with society or is with creditors, as we have heard in the previous days. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, that the picture that exists at the moment in Europe is that the government and, in particular, the Prime Minister of the country is the best student in Shoeble, it is the one who supposedly makes the negotiation, but in fact it signes it all. In fact, attributes told me last week when I was in Germany: 'If there were no Chipras, we had to invent him', said by German MPs. And don't have any illusion for the contrary. I'm closing my parentheses here to get back to the bill. In order to make investments in the country, ladies and gentlemen, two main questions need to be answered. First of all, where can I do what? In Greece, unfortunately, over the past few decades, not to say about a hundred and fifty years, no one can officially say in an institutional way and with legal certainty to answer the citizen or the investor what he can do and where. A second question, even though it has answered what and where something can be done, is that you do not answer when the authorisation can be granted, namely how quickly the licensing procedures will proceed. This is how everyone has to deal with, for example, town planning, forests, archaeology, local government, often the Minister, in short, everyone without answering the basic question: When will I finally be licensed? These two main questions were answered by Law 4269/2014. And why did he have to? Because 53% of the country does not have a specific housing development plan according to the needs of each region. Because the first, for example, General Urban Plan in Sitia in Crete took ten years from the vote on the previous bill of Law 4269 in order to complete it. And also because at the moment, we are talking to me only 16% of the country's municipalities - other than Attica - have approved General Urban Plan or OPCW. In other words, the spatial planning of our country was and is difficult, complex and dysfunctional. This, of course, has attempted to some extent to deal with it by Law 4269. It adopted some basic and self-evident forecasts, for example, it reduced planning levels from seven to four, because there were, for example, areas where there were simultaneously seven projects: urban plan, general planning, urban planning, urban control area, regulatory plan, urban regional framework, local framework, a total of seven. And since all of this had been done at different times during different times and phases, they often clashed with each other in the same area or clearly left some blunt points, which often created a problem, both in the administration and, of course, in the investor. And the price basically paid by the investor. When we talk about investor, we talk about foreigners and about Greeks, and we are not only talking about large investment, which did not get the answers that he wanted or received the wrong answer, or, much worse, the investment project was abandoned. What else did Mr. 4269 do? It established the Local Spatial Plans, with which it was not necessary to cover all municipalities, as was the case until then, but it could only cover one region or a municipal unit. And, of course, he established the Special Spatial Plans, which included all the projects that had been created in recent years to attract major investments, such as the ESDP, the ESRB, the CITES. But he did something else. It was radically modernising the plan and the status of land use, a reform which you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, were fighting against the opposition in a rampant manner and, indeed, abolished all Chapter II overnight in May of this year. And since then, as our rapporteur quite rightly said, it has been six months without bringing something to his replace. Minister, I think there is a very long delay here, because we are still waiting for this presidential decree on land use, and that still comes. What do we actually say to an investor? It is a presidential decree of 1987, thirty years ago, to invest in the country and the regime and the forecasts. You understand, of course, that this initiative, that is, the lack of initiative to say it better, sends a wrong message to anyone interested in putting their money in this country. And I repeat, he who wants to put his money in this country is not only the stranger, he is Greek. Anyway, you must give us a convincing explanation and an honest answer, because you have rushed to abolish a series of forecasts that were supported by both the business and the scientific world and to bring back into force a 1987 Presidential Decree, which is generally obsolete and, of course, does not meet the needs of a modern era, without you having prepared something for yourself, which could replace it. In other words, we have an empty law right now, all these investments are left behind, and in this part there is no convincing answer. You claim in the explanatory statement that the proposed draft law addresses the problems arising from the introduction of the rules of Law 4269. I, Minister, ask you directly what exactly problems have arisen? When did you try to apply the provisions of Law 4269, for example, by setting the necessary standards for drawing up individual projects? Unfortunately, you are applying a well-known practice that we have seen in recent years on the part of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. In other words, you are taking a law that is ready from New Democracy, which, of course, you as a Repression have conquered, you do nothing for one or two years, you leave it in the drawer, you then come and bring some renames and verbal changes, differentiations, enter some modifications and then say that you have discovered malfunctions in its implementation, which you have never implemented. Of course, the truth is different. You, in fact, do not have a convincing answer to issues relating to development and productivity, you do not have a proposition of production that meets the needs of modern society. You feel safe only in what is obsolete and tested and you are afraid to take at least the slightest step forward, even if they call you revizionists. May I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what were you guys saying in 2014 about special spatial plans? I think you're really not gonna recognize yourself. Today, of course, you come here and you are defending them, and you are doing well. But you don't because you believe it. In fact, the SYRIZA rapporteur, my dear colleague, has also suggested this. You don't believe it, so you don't do it right. You are introducing a pre-approval procedure with a ministerial decision and an amendment to urban conditions, which is adopted by a Presidential Decree and, as Mr Screkas said, this will lead to further delays in the whole process. That is why we call on you to show respect and stop increasing the uncertainty and insecurity of the investor, stop increasing the administrative burden on businesses and finally stop undermining any credibility left in that country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Communist Party of Greece expresses condolences to the families of the victims of the numerous attacks in Berlin, Zurich, as well as the assassination of the Russian ambassador to Ankara. These actions, in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, regardless of the particular individual pursuits, are an integral part of the imperialist war of the twenty-first century that is taking place in our region with great vigour. In fact, action by such organisations is being taken under the support and tolerance of certain imperialist centres. In fact, the escalation of these actions is linked to further intensification of competition around the situation in Syria today, by control of the rich production sources and strategic energy routes. These competitions pose greater risks for the generalisation of the war conflicts in the wider region. That is why, if something needs to be done today, it is the people and the Greek people to organise their struggle, solidarity and joint action, against imperialist planning and against the attempt by the various imperialist centres to take advantage of these actions for the repression and terrorism of the labour, the people's movement. And of course, from this point of view, it is indicative that the other parties, in particular the Golden Dawn, who has acquitted the imperialists, the Americans and others, and at the same time, have demonstrated religious and racial segregation, once again confirming the nazi character of this criminal organization, which does not say it is cut off, nor is it, of course. From this point of view, now on the bill, it is particularly revealing that the debate that has been going on so far in relation to the organisation of space and development. Because the organisation of the site must serve specific priorities. Another space organisation will be at the heart of this, if it is human and needs satisfying, and other priorities, when the capitalist business is at the heart of this place and ensuring capitalist profit. From this point of view, it is no coincidence that the controversy and criticism between the Government and other opposition parties is whether this spatial planning serves and meets the needs of companies, the needs of development. PASOK and the New Democracy very characteristicly said that what has to be ensured by spatial planning is the speed and security of investment planning and development. All the rest, the need to organise the area to satisfy the people's need is outside reflection and debate. And the Minister, of course, in defending this law, again in this need, namely, that there is 'no problem, we are barely experiencing shortcomings and weaknesses in the previous plan, precisely to ensure the development process'. In fact, he said very specifically that it is one of the tools for forming one of the three main stages of government planning, the government's roadmap for the economy, namely, budgetary discipline, which has a significant effect, of course, because of tax raids on people's strata, secondly, the stabilisation of the financial system and thirdly, the friendly environment for businesses. So the third axis also incorporated spatial planning. In this, of course, you are also integrating and reversal in industrial relations, overturnings which have permanent characteristics in the insurance system, overturnings that all mark the reduction of the value of the labour force to ensure and shield the competitiveness and profitability of the business groups. It is precisely in this context that the spatial planning on the part of the government is part of it. So, what's the government doing? It is trying to adapt the spatial design to the modern needs of business groups and business designs of the urban class domestic and foreign. And if we want a feature of the plan that the government brings for discussion is flexibility. It's much more flexible than some authorities, much more stringent, which had the previous one. And why does he do that? It does this just to serve much more flexible business plans. And where does the flexibility look from? It can be seen from the levels and, in particular, from the general spatial plan at central level, which has only a few general rules, it says. So these general rules, which define the general spatial framework, can very easily have exceptions. And these very exceptions come to answer the point made by the Minister that the specific spatial plans, those relating directly to business activity and, in particular, to specific areas where it is prioritised to invest the large capital, such as tourism, energy, transit centres, will be designed in such a way as to derogate from the general regulations. So what does all this drive? It leads to a much more flexibility in spatial planning, specificity, general and local precisely to adapt to the requirements of business plans each time. For this very reason and did not prejudice the specific spatial planning plans, the ESRBs and the ESRBs, which concern strategic investments. In this context, therefore, the flexibility of the ESRBs and of the ESRBs for strategic investments wants the government to formulate a corresponding framework for the specific spatial planning, which concerns the smaller sizes of business groups. So all this spatial planning is subjugating them to the needs of business groups. One characteristic, then, is flexibility. The second is that through this spatial planning, it is further facilitated not only by the concentration of land, but also by the change in land use, so that it can, of course, respond to the even greater concentration and concentration of economic activity and the growth it needs. In this respect, we are clearly saying that this spatial planning is dangerous, at the expense of satisfying people's needs. For, of course, the different organization of the area, which is focused on the logic of the Communist Party of Greece, is to put at the centre of attention, not to ensure capitalist profit, but to how people's needs will be met. So, from this point of view, it has other priorities, Minister, our spatial planning. The first priority is improving the quality of human life. Tell us, does something change? It is getting worse on the question of improving the quality of life. The crucial thing is to secure popular housing. Hundreds of thousands of new couples have no roof when there are two hundred or three hundred thousand apartments empty, new or even older, either for sale or for rent. And yet, at the same time as all this overlift roof, at the same time there are hundreds of thousands of new couples who cannot satisfy their housing needs. Second matter. The creation and organization of the free space in urban centres, so that a number of activities can be developed, from leisure and entertainment to sport and culture. What's innovative here with your own design? Absolutely nothing. In this respect, it will deteriorate even further. Since the land is privatised, since the land is a tool to safeguard capitalist profitability, so any free spaces that have become will be exploited for investment activities rather than satisfying the needs of recreation, culture, sport, culture or environmental protection, since it is also subjected to and adapted to the environment in this process. In this context, therefore, if we ensure better quality of life for people, we will see how economic activities will be developed, not in competition with each other, as they are today in capitalism, and thus also disagreements which are heard to be focused by the other parties in the interests of individual sectors of capital, but in how all productive activities will be developed that will exploit the productive potential of the place. And that, of course, wants a central design so that there can be this full-fledged development of forces. So spatial planning requires, on the one hand, that people's needs be met, not only that the means of production be social, but that the whole earth be social. Then he will really be able to do that. This means a change of power, a change of power and the hands of the bourgeoisie to pass into the hands of the workers and the rest of the populace. In this context, then, we are making the criticism of you. We say that your spatial planning serves the needs of capital, adapts to the needs of capital, is hostile to satisfy the people's needs and will worsen the positions of the people's family. From this point of view, we cannot support and vote in principle and on the articles - because they have a consistency and these articles, Minister - your own plan, which you are now tabling. That is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u102	After Mr. Danelli, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u103	I request the floor for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u104	To distribute the amendment, to have it before the Members and then to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u105	I would ask you now to give me the floor for a brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Danielle, would you excuse me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u107	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u108	Mr Papanatziou, State Secretary for Finance, has the floor for a brief speech, as I said before, on an amendment from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment will be distributed shortly. It concerns the thirteenth pension or one-off financial aid. As we wish, we call her. In Article 65 of Law 4445/2016, a new paragraph 2 is added and the existing paragraph 2 is renumbered 3: The one-off financial support referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is duty-free, is not subject to any reservation, shall not be seized, or offset by already established public debt, credit institutions and shall not be calculated in the income limits for the payment of any allowance or social or social benefits. The previous paragraph shall apply from the entry into force of Law 4445/2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u110	And the other number?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u111	He's taken the general number 860 and special 88.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u112	Good. Thank you, Minister. Mr. Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a sad day. Uncertainty, anxiety, reflection on a world that changes chaotics. The blind horror in Berlin, shot at Temenos in Zurich, increased measures in Italy, France, Cyprus. And in Patisia - to come to our neighborhood - on a constant trifle class fighters burn three trolleys to make it more difficult to move older people, workers, students, etc. from the popular districts to the centre and vice versa. That's a great blow to capitalism and the system. When will our common will finally be manifested in order to clarify once and for all these misery? The restoration of public property which is being destroyed by the vandals, at last, must not be burdened by the heavy taxpayers of Greek citizens, but by the vandals themselves. And the Euroworking Group is paying for all of this today. You have wisely created asymmetrical problems for the country when the difficult completion of the second evaluation that would unblock our necessary integration into the quantitative relaxation of the ECB, climate without another festive. Ladies and gentlemen, with the extent and depth of the arbitrary culture, speaking of the organization of the space in Greece today, I am afraid we are having a debate on vanity. It seems to be an act of vagueness to try to organize the space in retrospect, after such arbitrary intervention. I remember Tsarouchi in an interview that you asked about how he sees the black city mess of Athens was corrected spontaneously “only one earthquake saves”. To add, however, immediately afterwards: "Neither does that save her. Why, with so many balls, what are we going to do?" In this situation, of course, a great deal has been done. The inertia, the complexity of the bureaucratic interventions which have so far been adopted and, of course, the disposition which has been shown, the hostage situation of citizens, against a procedure of lawlessness. The delay in responding to the state and the economic and development pressures in wealth producing areas have led to problems that are, of course, extremely difficult to deal with today. This does not mean that we should not modernise the existing legislative framework, which has obviously been inadequate to date. And they are inadequate because to some extent it is not implemented because of the complex bureaucratic procedures it imposes and the incredible and unpredictable time it requires. Moreover, it is outdated by modern urban perceptions. Bright international examples, international trends around us there are many, with excellent results even in areas already structured. But to us we have to face a profoundly inspiring culture, as I said just now, the culture of arbitrary intervention. The convenience with which any citizen thinks to dissatisfaction, but also the corresponding convenience with which he carries out his arbitrary intervention in the area, in the absence of adequate state control and inefficiency of the mechanisms, is indeed impressive. This is what helps the state that, with its apologies repeatedly, gives legalization opportunities, reproducing and maintaining the unreserved landscape. In modern Greece terms and concepts, such as "land uses", "protection of natural environment, natural resources and capacity areas", were unknown. For this reason, our development model in all its expressions was distorted and incomplete, with the result that all these distinct intrinsic weaknesses we have today to deal with. Without a doubt, Minister, the bill we are discussing attempts to improve the existing situation, namely L.4269/2014, on spatial and urban reform, by modifying even at the corner some of the weak provisions, a law, which we must say has never been implemented. Without clear rules spatial planning cannot be a development tool for attracting investors. And that is what we need to keep in mind in our current reality. In the right direction is the strengthening of regional projects with predictability of options for specialisation of specific or sectoral projects. In addition, a positive point is the addition to the general concepts of the principle of sustainable development. Whether this will, of course, remain a wish or be implemented with specific policies from now on, it remains to be confirmed by reality. In its positive draft, it is also the reintroduction of the National Spatial Planning Council, not as a government body but as a social dialogue body. The change in the construction coefficients in productive areas, so that the maximum is not applied in all cases, is also included in the positive ones, because it is certain that we will have to move towards the gradual abolition of the non-building project, because we must not forget - and we must constantly remind ourselves of this - that this is a Greek patent, the off-project construction, the famous agricultural parcels, which, of course, we are baptising plots. But at the same time there is also a particular centralism, which we have tried to date negatively. A characteristic feature, which does not go beyond this bill, is the involvement of many different services and, of course, the plurality, which at last should be gathered, should be codified, should be clear to everyone. It is also a problem for the large volume of secondary legislation required to implement this draft law. In conclusion, without first having been able, Mr Minister, to complete the famous National Register or the Forest, which has so many times been occupied by us, or without an integrated coastal zone management plan, it is understandable that we are again trying and discussing fragmentarily and with dubious results. In conclusion, I would remind you that according to European legislation we must implement by 2019, that is to say the day after, and the European Maritime Planning Directive. So when our partners are running to complete maritime planning, namely the design of uses in the marine and, of course, a sensitive ecosystem, which concerns us - and if others are concerned with one degree, it is a multitude - because all the activities of the marine economy are one of the main sources of development of wealth, which will be able to bring us out of the miserable reality of continued dependence on credit, then you understand that we are too far behind if we are still talking about land use, the organisation of land use, urban planning. We are at an exceptional distance from this reality, which our partners in the rest of Europe are experiencing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Xydakis, has the floor. Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing with a repacked, let us say, bill one of the great outstandingities of the Greek administration and, by extension, of the Greek economy and of the Greek society, how the Greek territory, the countryside, the urban landscape, the man-made, the natural nature, how we protect the environment and how this is combined with human needs and the needs of development. However, above all, what we are thinking and with which - at least in the words - we are doing must be done in the light of sustainable and sustainable development, which will not endure either natural resources or the human environment and will not create more unfavourable conditions for future generations. I think that everything that has happened in the second half of the 20th century, in the end has drained into these thoughts and I think that these thoughts are passing through the political practice of all the progressive political forces in the last decades, at least in the Western world, into this sphere in which we are aspiring to move. Eco-sensitivity is sensitivity to human existence and human presence on the planet. It's not just romance. It's romance, in the right, democratic sense, but it's also a deep realism, how you preserve what's there, so you can have in the future. The Greek Constitution within its undeniable progressive dimension between the European Constitutions at the end of the 20th century placed in Article 24 under the ruthless protection of the state and the natural environment and cultural heritage. It's the two elements you don't have to either deliver them to the ravines of speculation or leave them unprotected. We often forget this, especially at a historic phase like the one we have been going through for the last six years, where under the enormous economic pressure and the pooring of a large part of the Greek population we think that development under any conditions will give us a solution and lead us to the future. Let us be careful, the great assets of the Greek economy are the unparalleled natural landscape and the enormous historical value of anthropogenic landscape. That is what we have in our hands, what we need to take care of, and that is what we need to do in the future. If we go back to this famous post-war period, where the miracle of reconstruction has become - and rightly so, we have a lot to show as a people - we will see how much mistakes have been made, because of the lack of regulation, a peculiarity which has been established on a lasting basis. We will see around us in the years of prosperity and prosperity and arrogance the arbitrary maisonettes flooding the streams and foothills of the famous Attic mountains from Penteli to Parnitha, we will see how the Lefkanopedio was formed, the urban landscape through its paradox and genius within its paradoxical adversity – someone of Evtides existed in the 1950s and some policies. We will see the skeletons from the seashoes of the junta filling islands and beaches and even in recent years skeletons from the badly-flavoured NSAs exist in Thrace and other places. This development was carried out without spatial planning, without any prediction of sustainability and sustainability. And if we turn our eyes to see a little in the Mediterranean, when we talk about the sites of the tourist industry and competition, let's see the documentaries and documentation in literature, with the famous Costa del Sol in Spain, when the sea front was a concrete nightmare and when greedy tourist profitability led to the desertification and demand of the tourist product. Nikos Gatsossos over a couple of twenty years ago at the “Enimal of Persephone” summed up all the romance of ecology and pragmatism together. He was talking about Elefsina, about the place where the Sacred Road begins from the Acropolis, about the place of the mysteries and the place of union with the land, with the divinities, the place that developed in the post-war by refining, shipyards, factories, with the abundant and disgusting disposal of labour by the refugee populations. And now let's go see what Elefsina is. It's an industrial ruin, a decay landscape. And what still shines, a unique landscape is the archaeological site of Elefsina, the space of the Eleusian mysteries. It is a unique landscape, which shows what sustainability, sustainability, endurance of time and eternity. But let us see some of the objections that have also been raised by the Civic Opposition and by Elasson. I just want to stay and answer one, two. The New Democracy accused SYRIZA of adding bureaucratic stages, bureaucratic obstacles. Let us specifically tell us what they are and how the law can be corrected to take account of them. I think that this is the parliamentary procedure, and that is what I think has already come from the proposals made by fellow Members and the special speaker from Potami, Mr Mavrotas, and I think that most of the improvements proposed have already been accepted by the Minister. Anything else that promotes a fast track ideology and that spatial planning is only done for investment, I think it is dangerous for the country itself to exist for the very course of society. Society is not just investment. We all long for investment, and we want to facilitate, but within a rationalisation framework, within a framework of control, in a framework of strategy toward where we want to go. The general spatial planning, the one being done with this law, is the great context. Special landfills, whether for tourism or for other projects, for other investment projects, must be subsets of the general planning, obey a national strategy and a large road map. Otherwise, we will leave what has happened in recent years, which in the absence of national spatial planning, we have left - and fortunately this also - the Fifth Department of the Council of State actually legislate in this respect, cast laws, cast ministerial decisions and try, interpreting Article 24, to make an ad hoc case law. That is why the number of arbitrariness and this lack of planning is certainly not responsible for the present government. The current government is in the process of two years and is legislating under a suffocating comitology framework. All the colleagues in this House know about this and all the Members who have been involved in the legislative body since 2010. We're being co-legislative. But within and within this suffocating framework, we have to do everything we can and have room to protect national sovereignty, and above all to protect future generations, protecting natural resources, the man-made environment, by putting rules and trying to respect them. One final comment I would like to make on something that was heard by Mr Maniotis of PASOK, who did not find much positive in the bill, even though he said that it is 90% the same as the old one. So 90% should be fully accepted. For 10% was not entirely convincing because it's not good. He said, however, why the Local Planning is required at the level of a town and not by a community or by a small geographical area. I do not understand how a mountain village from the fifteen or the twenty that will bring together a Callicratic municipality will be able to make its own local planning without taking into account what is happening next, adjacent or in the whole. The environment is a single and dynamic set, you do not do point interventions. This is the great weakness of many decades, the lack of general planning, the lack of a national plan and the signatories' interventions which have led to this present loaf. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As a last point, because it was mentioned here and the Minister told us, I would like to say that the President-in-Office's decree is ready for land relations. There is a procedure for approval by the Council of State. I would ask - and I think the Minister is ready to accept this - that this President-in-Office's decree should be tabled immediately and if we see that he is late, we could still consider the fact of entering as a draft law. I know that the adoption by the Council of the President-in-Office's decree shields it insults in the future. However, it would be a good move for the legislature to take this initiative and the commitment that the Presidential Decree on Land Uses, which has indeed been delayed, will be tabled immediately. I think that, as you have shown goodwill, Minister, when adding the individual amendments that have been introduced here by the opposition, you can also assure us, because it is indeed a tool for the development and smooth running of economic life and cannot function in an economy without knowing the uses of land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st High School Argos (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, ladies and gentlemen, do you agree to resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u117	Mr. President, I'm sorry. Before we close, could the Minister tell us which parliamentary amendments he is accepting so that we can put ourselves in total tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u118	What parliamentary amendments? I don't know if that's possible. Minister, you have heard the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u119	I would prefer to place myself at 10.00 a.m. in the morning on the whole of the amendments and the ministers. It's four, I think. Parliamentarians are enough, but they want a little bit more workout. In other words, I am going to accept some of the parliamentary amendments, and they also want legislative improvements, and some of them will not be accepted. So I'd prefer the full presentation to be at 10:00 in the morning. In addition, I would like to prepare for a number of amendments to be tabled tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u120	How many?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u121	How many?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u122	You'll have them tonight in the next one or two hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u123	How many are there, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u124	You know my dissent in the amendments, but it is the last bill before 31-12, and I have therefore retreated to accept amendments, which have a suffocating time limit of 31-12.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u125	So, they're irrelevant to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u126	Yeah, they're other ministries. There is no particularly important thing about what I know. It's all simple and procedural. Perhaps one important point is that I have tabled, which concerns the improvement of the oil market and is being expelled from the OECD's well-known study. It is about things that need to be implemented. In the same spirit, there will also be an amendment for the evaluation of medicines and the system of return. These are the two - I think - of the most important things that have been submitted or will be submitted next hour. Everything else is about the bill. We will have an opportunity tomorrow morning to discuss them for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u127	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-20-S1-commons.u128	With the consent of the House at 16.11' the meeting for tomorrow, Wednesday 21 December 2016 at 12 noon, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: the continuation of the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: 'Sustainable development'.
