ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The third question will be discussed under number 1177/22-8-2016, first question by the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the launch of the construction of the Patras - Tower road. The Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is the third time we have come to the House, through the parliamentary control procedure, to ask what will finally happen with this long road Patras - Tower. I would like to tell you that because I spent several days in my constituency, it is one of the main questions, among other problems facing the world. So far, Minister, everything you have told us has been denied. So you tried at the beginning to entertain the impressions after partitioning, saying that by June 2015, eight auctions will have gone ahead, then when we came here in November you told us that the tenders will be started in December and one and a half years, there have been only three of the eight auctions of the fragmented project and, of the miracle, Mr President, they have been taken by a new national contractor, the "TOXOTIS" company, for whom so many are written and spoken these days. The question, Minister, is when the rest of the auctions are going to take place. Are the auction contracts adopted by the Court of Auditors? When will you draw up the file on the major project to be approved by the European Commission and will its funding be part of the Ministry of Transport's sectoral programme? In any case, what the people of Elijah expect to hear and those who mourn are when the work will begin and what the timetable for its implementation will be. Because, Minister, the citizens know very well that where the projects were divided, someone has become in the middle. We claim Patras tower highway. We don't want a road from the Tower to the Dunesca and from Amaliada to Varda. That's what we have, thank God. How will it be ensured that, with these concessions given by contractors, the project will be carried out and will not give up in the middle? How will the eight contractors agree and what will be done with the last Western Achaia contractor, who are all waiting to respond to the request for relapse? All of this shows that project planning is in the uncertain future. Unless today you tell us something different and in a way that can convince us, of course. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to respond to what is primarily of interest to the citizens of Elijah, Achaia and Messinia, namely the timetable. Mr. Colleague, as you know in the first contractor on the Patras tower project, the competition was initially opened on March 8, 2016. It was postponed twice on 22 March and on 5 May and it was not even carried out on the third occasion, due to the abstention of HNDGS and contractors. It was reproclaimed and made on 12 July, so in our announcements not only were we consistent, but we did so earlier. As planned, every month a auction would be held. The first project has a budget of 67,200,000 euros, has an option of 3,400,000 euros and a 53% discount. The second contractor has a budget of EUR 58,400,000 and an option of EUR 1,600 000. The prices I mentioned include VAT. The motorway length is 8.96 km and the discount is 55.32%. In the third contractor, the budget is EUR 53,250,000 and the optional EUR 4,450,000. The highway length is 10.9 km, the 57.45% discount. In the fourth contractor, the budget is EUR 70,710,000 and the motorway length is 9 km. The competition will take place on 27 September this year. In the fifth contractor the project is identified to be published at the end of September 2016 or at the beginning of October. The estimated budget is 70,000,000 euros. In the sixth contractor, the project is scheduled until October 20, 2016, on the seventh until November 30, 2016 and on the eighth until the end of 2016. In your timely question, you ask whether the provisions of Article 5 of Law 4219/2013, namely the Law of revision, will be complied with. I would mention what was envisaged in the revision of the convention as a provision and I will be placed on them. Patras - Tower states that the law of 2013 must have completed not later than the completion of the concession contract, the Good Water - Kyparissia has been completed at the end of 2016 and for the Tower - Good Water has a wish. I'll read it right away. He says: "It remains a priority project which is included in the national plan to connect the Patras - Tower - Chacona to Corinth - Tripoli - Kalamata motorway". It is obvious from these provisions that in the revised concession contract a few dates were formulated to gold the pill to the citizens of western Greece, false dates, as well as the timetables for Mr Souflia's concessions. The previous government had, therefore, planned a tender procedure with a false timetable directed only at the six major technical companies and the studies, the quantities and work planned would be carried out by the consortium involving most of the major technical companies, namely Olympia. I'll testify to you for that. I'm not saying that. The service mentions them and raises the following topics for the initial competition: The auction, he says, would be in two stages. A prerequisite for this invitation was the integration of the project into a co-financed programme of the European Union. The economic offers of the contestants would be made at a standard price for groups or subgroups of jobs, i.e. the public would not have accurate premeasures and would have given a price for all the earthmovings of Patras - Tower, for all the bridges of Patras - Tower and so on. These terms and options, says the agency, created serious problems and risks with regard to the smooth development of the tender, but also with regard to ensuring the European Union's financing of the project, for reasons that are obvious. It is noted that from the outset one company had filed an application for insurance measures. The objectual clear advantage of the companies that were members of the concessionaire who had participated in the preparation of the studies and in the construction of part of the work of the auctioned project not only was not minimised, but was also increased by the chosen tender system, i.e. the old one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u6	Minister, let us say the rest in dentistry, because you have already spoken twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u7	We have a lot to say in dentistry because, not Mr Koutsoukos, but other colleagues and some of those who participate in the tender are making use of these three auctions, Mr President, to prepare.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u8	Minister, just take care of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u9	Sure. But what we're talking about isn't me. It's the services. The services say that if we took off the project, it would not have been possible for the European Commission to finance it. Services say there were no quantities. Services say more. Do you want me to say it in a second? I'll talk to you in a second. I'm finishing my first talk. I'll also file the document so that Mr. Koutsoukos can have it, if he wants it right now. There are also the three auction tables that have been made. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, my dear colleague, there were no studies, just as there were no studies on the rest of the motorway. There were no specific quantities and work. The competition only addressed the big companies. Most of them were involved in the concession of Patras to Tower and we'll report them. It is ‘NOTRIA’, ‘TERNA’, ‘J&P’, ‘ATHENA’, ‘VINCI’ and ‘HOCHTIEF’. So people know what's going on. There were no complete expropriations. There was no project file, there was no cost study - benefit, there was nothing. So, if we continued the tender we found and did not cancel it, we would have to deal with the problems of the country's public works, namely, not funding from the European Commission because of'reverse competition', says the service, secondly, procedural and judicial involvement, thirdly, additional compensation, fourthly, much higher costs for the public, fifthly, a premium for certain companies, the well-known major companies of the seventh class which participated and the concession of the Olympian road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I sincerely ask you to take care of the time. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u11	I, too, with your tolerance, Mr President. Minister, you told us exactly the same excuses you said here in Parliament on 20-14-2015, when you replied to my timely question about why you shared the work. Then, of course, you, the newly appointed in SYRIZA government, but also the other SYRIZA officials, were able to bail against the interlocutory and major contractors. It's been a year and a half now. It's a fig sheet. You must prove, Minister, like Caesar's wife, who is not enough to be honest, but also to see that you are the same. That you didn't cut the road, that is, in eight pieces, to get it by some of your people. And how does that prove? It turns out by the fact that the three contractors have been taken by a well-known contractor, a well-known best man of yours and another major government official, whose name is the thousand millions. For black money, Mr. Kammenos denounces him that he has unpaid workers, that he's overtime in big business. Now he must also be answered by your defendant, Mr Pappas, because he has delayed the guarantee, because he also claims that he should become another part of the system you were supposed to fight for, claiming a television licence. So you've achieved the first goal of sharing jobs elsewhere. But the citizens of Elijah care when the work will be done, Minister. I asked you specific questions too. Is it certain that all eight contractors will be executed? That they're joining a single highway? Is it certain that there will be no problems with the engraving that they claimed in Western Achaia and that the decision at the Council of State had been finalised? Is it certain, Minister, that with a 57% discount, the project will be carried out or the known ones will take the advances and leave it incomplete? Or will you give them a pantomime, as you did in Lesvos with an additional contract or with a revaluation? There's a rumor on the street with the well-known offices dealing with the revaluations. I do not want to open this debate now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u12	Let's open it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u13	Of course, let's open it. What matters is that you must answer the citizens of Western Greece - at the moment outside the motorway network is only Elias, because the Patras - Tower - Tsakonas - is not completed - if this design will be carried out, if the projects are done, when they will start and when they will end. Because it's not enough to start a project. It has to end. And as we read, Minister, last Sunday, you gave more to the concessionaires and manufacturers of the Olympian road to speed up the timetable to deliver the project to the beginning of 2017. I don't know what you're connecting it to your political planning - why don't you do anything accidental - but the question is the provision of Article 5 of the law that you read to us earlier, which said that the Patras Tower road will be completed at the same time as the Olympian road, if it can be done? And, of course, my answer is that it won't happen. Because if we get the best version, the work will be done - ours - in 2021. So that's where you've been illegal. And don't tell us now that the tender was not well prepared, because the services you are told are the ones that prepared the VET and published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. And you know that Brussels bureaucrats are looking at it all. Nothing's been published at random. The project was part of the European Union's operational transport programme, it had received an ID code in the Public Investment Programme and had FEK. And you illegally abolished the competition, canceled it, while you could suspend it, so you could study all this better. So, in our view, there was a feasibility. We denounce that. We're counting on it. You won't be Minister when this project is completed if it's done. However, we will be here to be vigilant, because we must, on the basis of the mandate given to us by the people of Elijah, take the lead in completing this work. The answers you gave us today, unfortunately, are not convincing at all, nor at all, when it will begin or when it will end. You only told us timelines of the auctions. For the 'baker' which our people say, in other words, when a project starts and when a project is completed, you have not told us anything. So say timelines, let's see if you'll be disproved once more, as has been done so far. Thank you, Mr President, for the slightest tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, the real truths in Parliament, not the lies and the mud of some channels, of the New Democracy and those of specific interests, that is to say, that these are the ones to make competitions so that 80% of the projects are in the 'electoral', of the six major technical companies and of two or three foreign companies. Let me remind you that the Patras - Tower motorway was part of the Corinth - Patras - Tower concession. You remember that. The highway section in reviewing the concession contract came out except for the previous government, not ours. You have said, Mr Kutsuko, that you too fought to make a commitment from the previous government to auction the work. And we accept this with all the rest of us, especially the rest of the citizens, but the studies that were to be carried out by the project were carried out by the concessionaire, namely by the six companies I mentioned before. Were there any gaps in the contest? I read, to see who's doing business here and who should be and be honest: "They're following examples of the above, no matter who's causing an increase in expenditure is small or large," says the agency itself. ‘First, placement of a three-dimensional potato, geocycles in the worms. Work refers to geotechnical studies. The work shall be referred to as the contractor's obligation to describe the work included in the flat-rate price of the earthmovings. Not included in the premeasures. Secondly, drainage of green orgasms in areas with high aqueous horizons. Work is not clearly mentioned in geotechnical studies, etc., it is not included in premeasures. Thirdly, repairs of incomplete techniques, bridges and shells with anchorages and others. Work is not included in premeasures. Fourth, I... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I have tabled this. Let Mr. Koutsukos read it. I also present to you, Mr Koutsouko, all the studies, what they were and what they were, what the quantities were before and what they were today, what they were not predicted. And they're not two files, they're five DVDs, what they hand over and how the play is done. [[At this point the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned dossiers containing the above-mentioned documents and electronic data storage media (DVD) which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Give it to Mr. Koutsouko, put on a mechanic to figure out how the works were done. You intend to report that partition is taking place. When's the partition, Mr. Comrade? Illegally partition - that is the term - when you break a project, so that you do not comply with the directive and legislation, what was happening in the region of Thessaloniki, namely elsewhere. I mean, when you go to rough tender procedures, awards, non-publishment, shorter auction intervals, and so forth. It has not been done and you know it very, very well. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] Mr President, I cannot answer that. I'm so sorry, but I'm asking for your tolerance. Is that what I want you to tell us - any help or any subsidy to a contestant? You know very well that it does not exist. But what's there? That the well-known big companies will not get the work with zero discounts, as they took Corinth - Patras and have taken this piece, as you know, no compensation will be given for additional work and expropriations, because they would not have been provided for in the study you wanted to continue the tender, they will not pay again the Greek people - not to say now what they are paying up to now. The total amount of work is 500 million. And let the first broker go. The second one in each of the three competitions has 49.5%, 48.5%. Do you know how big it is at 500 million? It is 250 million that the Greek people would pay if we went with other reasonable points, 90 million appreciates others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u16	So, how far is it going to the others?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Nicholas, let us look at this once the works initiated by Mr. Souflias have been completed and the previous government has revised. You are therefore accusing us of the fact that this particular contractor is - he says - in the government and has friendly relations. I have with his son, you know, so you don't get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u18	I don't know each other's knuckles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u19	But ask your members, your MPs, Mr. Koutsuko, for the contractor himself. Friendly relationships for decades have been. Not even in the press is Mr. Kalogerica new, he's old. Ask your party, they know him well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u20	Just like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u21	The ministers, the old ones you had, ask them. I'll tell you about his son whatever you want. So what is immoral and illegal is that projects with a 0% discount should be set. We gave, say, some of the works. How did we give them? Take the paintings I gave you and see the discounts. Did we give it to 55% and 57% and 53% discount? Is that how the plays give them? Look at the projects that were awarded to the previous governments with a 0% discount and 4% discount, to see how the projects were being given. This was how the works were given. What you are accusing us, thank you very much, shows that we are probably doing our job well, because otherwise we would give it with other procedures and other discounts. It would also be good to re view the offers tables, because there they have offered offers and the companies that participate in the Corinth - Patras consortium, and did not give 55% or 50% discount, gave 25%, 30%. Why didn't they give it to the other Corinth - Patra highway? Why didn't they give it to Patras tower when it was inside the concession? You can answer that. Bring us a minister who handled it then to answer us. And it was with a 0% discount. Of course, because you tell us about timetables, you had not even done a cost-benefit study. How would it have gone and become a major dossier in the European Commission to join when this had not been done? And with what information, when you had no quantities, did you have nothing to do, when the environment was 'in the air' and, above all, Mr Koutsoukos, when the expropriations were not usually done 'accidentally' and in this work?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u22	Minister, we have made a lot of progress in time. We've been through him a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u23	What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u24	Yes, but we manage topical questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u25	What I would like to say, Mr President, in two words, is that, as much mud as it throws out the well-known channel, the Anti-Population Officer's party, let's put spots on other games. And those who want to serve the old system, which was the banking triangle, the financial system and the media and the political system, do not want to find it in us. You've known me personally for too many years and when you've been dealing with trade union issues. You know, over time with this system, I've been hit, I've been breaking down. You know it. So don't tell me: 'And be honest.' And I am, and I look, and whoever has any questions to come and find me. I challenge him here, in public, to tell us what the procedure is that is not right, where the illegality is, where the immorality is. The 55% discount?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u26	It's going to be the road, Minister, and when? That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u27	It will be done, Mr. Kutsuko, the road. There we are together. It's going to be the road. You are right - and that is where you are right - to complete the cost study - benefit and the major project dossier. In order to do this, however, we had to have financial information. It couldn't be done any other way. We now have economic data, and we now have economic data that are reliable, because we also have percentages of contractors' discounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you've been talking for nine minutes. You can't talk any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, too. Next is the fifth under number 1186/23-8-2016 timely question of the first question of the MEP of Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks concerning the contract of the Greek State with the "DIGEA". Mr. Kocket's timely question will be answered again by Mr. Spirtzis. Mr. Red, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the topical and urgent question concerns DIGEA. Following a tender by the National Telecommunications Commission, a 15-year contract was signed between the Greek State and the company DIGEA, which has not only colonial terms but also monopolistic ones. It was - and they are - dozens of topical questions from our colleagues in 2013, 2014 and 2015 concerning how this convention works, and indeed the monopoly and dominant position of DIGEA, as well as the colonial nature of the contract. In particular: One to appear in this competition is guaranteed without at least being able to have two. White areas in Greece are enough. The problem tried to solve it by the National Telecommunications Commission with a directive on OTAs, first and second, ordering them to cover equipment themselves. A lot of OTAs couldn't. They cannot pay ruthless expenses here. Others have signed the relevant expenditure in their budget, but they have not been able to take the money because it is not foreseen. Also, this is where the question arises: is the only DIGEA? Isn't there someone else who has knowledge? That is what the Greek people will ask. Of course there was, in three letters, the ERT. However, at the time when the DIGEA was up, the monopoly is now in place for DIGEA and regional channels are forced to pay tolls to the DIGEA. Already, it is likely that the money that the regional channels pay will increase. In view of all this, Minister, and always with respect for time, you ask: Will Yiannis continue buying, Yiannis drink? Will the landscape be clear on the subject of frequencies? Has there been a real assessment of the use of the public good of the broadcaster? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Spirtzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u33	First of all, I would like to thank you for the timely question, Mr President. Unfortunately, the three minutes are short to describe the orgy of the competitive processes that have been carried out for DIGEA. But the file has been opened. Last year, for over a year, on July 1, 2015, I informed the prosecutor responsible about the information we found in connection with the competition. I'll write it up in an outline. The competition has such procedures that, if we kept them at the Ministry or kept them in a region or a municipality, we would at least be elsewhere. We are not talking about 'The Truth' of the well-known group. We have flaws and omissions. We have action taken by members of the EBRD concerning the non-exclusion of one competing company. Although the law said they could not be content providers, i.e. channels, DIGEA has shareholders of the six pan-Hellenic channels - they unfortunately went ahead and accepted the offer. And that's not all that's done. They also had anticipated the terms of the competition, although no one came down for the frequencies of regional channels, to commission them too. I want to be a little editor, so you can all understand what revenue we are talking about in the 'DIGEA' programme. Let us assume that the entire range of frequencies was the old range, which we had on an old radio, the one with the needle, and that the Greek State was coming to say that these frequencies would be broadcast by television, on these mobile phones, on these radio and so on. So 1/3 we have given it to mobile telephony, and it brought revenues of 380 million and exactly three times the cost of "DIGEA" and brings revenues of 18 million and distortions, of course. I've filed these before with the House when the law was being discussed, which Mr. Mitsotakis will cancel. It is a response from the EMCDDA. I'll testify. What did they do? This independent regulator did not go through the audit of the Court of Auditors for this tender either. Of course, in addition to these, it changed inconsistent conditions of competition after the competition, such as the technological model, such as the system delivery time. And this network time prevented too many from going down to this competition. So I will testify - to have it - and what we submitted to the prosecutor a year ago. As I will testify - to see how the previous government operated - the results. Because we are ready to correct the frequency map made by the previous government, I want you to see these maps here. Where you see orange, it's what's covered. All other colors in yellow, with blue, with black are the areas not covered. Here it is in Istanbul, here it is in Achaia, here it is in Chania, here it is in Halkidiki - it is completely forgotten Halkidiki -, here it is in Drama and Xanthi. Tomorrow with good start - Nikos Pappas is here - this competition for television licenses. We will therefore sit down and see - we have completed the job - correcting the joint ministerial decision that came out of the previous government to serve one thing, that the investment that one tenderer would make in the frequency contest is very low. Mr Koutsoukos left to see how the competitions are being set up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u34	Yes, sir. Thank you, Minister. Mr. Coke has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u35	In addition, I would like to ask whether this infamous contract between the EBRD, the National Post and Telecommunications Commission and the DIGEA is accessible if it has been notified, made public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u36	The first or the second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u37	Because we do not know the colonial terms and, secondly, the high cost at the moment for DIGEA is a real vertebrae for regional channels. If you can now say what you intend to do. Negotiation of the contract, any other terms?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u38	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u39	Because there are too many regional channels which cannot withstand this high cost of signal transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Red, I'm going to tell you what we're doing, but it's good to have some information on how they were running the country, because they're telling us we're not enough to be honest, he says, but they want us to look. We're looking. We look, because we are so cursed by those who are so satisfied with us. Let's say whatever they want from morning to night. This case will deal with the courtrooms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u42	DIGEA's case?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u43	DIGEA's case and the EBRD and those involved. I read a document from the service, from the same service, because before we talked about the same service - under Protocol 84. "They did so," he said, "by public consultation, positive and negative comments, which were received and processed by the Office of the Secretary-General for Telecommunications and Postal. Our service did not proceed with the drafting of a draft KHS based on the study and the results of the public consultation, because under its No. 1501/4-10-2012 paper by the Secretary-General for Telecommunications and Postal, Mr.Menelaos Daskalakis, gave a written mandate to the service, to proceed with the publication of the KHS on the basis of the technical annex accompanying this written mandate. As a result, the issued CSR captures the map of terrestrial digital television frequencies according to the mandate of the then political leadership.’ Let me inform you, Mr. Kokalis, that at that time the Ministry had also studied this study, which was carried out by the National Technical University and by the University of Piraeus, it did not make a hundred and fifty-six points, but it made a few hundred points, close to nineteen. They took it into consultation and then went out without the Service, the same Service, as the Office says, a joint ministerial decision with fifty-six points. I also have Mr Daskalaki's document and all the correspondence and I submit them in the Minutes, to see how the country was governed and how the frequency maps came out. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This has the result that you know - and you did well and you asked the question - that is to say too many channels, from the revision of the financial model that was not provided, which was circumvented even in this structured competition and then changed, today the regional channels are looting. It is obvious that there are bad competitive conditions after tomorrow's competition and it is obvious - but we will not do either the prosecutors or the judges - that when the prosecutor completes his investigation, depending on the outcome he will make, we will also do the necessary actions as a ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Minister. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, 1. On 12-8-2016, criminal case-file related to persons who were Ministers of National Defence in 2001 and 2006. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. On 29-8-2016, a criminal case file relating to the former Minister of Finance, Mr. Ioannis Varoufakis. The fifth question by No. 1185/23-8-2016 of the Independent Members of the Achaias Parliament, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, on the theft of the image of ERT by the SKAI TV station, will be discussed at the time of the transmission of the operation of the Fifteenth August from Panagia Tinos. The Minister of State will answer Mr Nikolaos Pappas. Mr. Nicholas has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, may I ask why the channels will not show any of them tonight? Uh, no, I'll be naive! Here I see a front page saying "The mails of treason. The mandates of the IMF and EUROSTAT to George Papaconstantinou. Change the deficit quickly and with confidence." Oh, well, slowly, Alafuzo's gonna play it! Slowly the "MEGA" will play it! Is that a matter? Slowly they will play it or demand that Mr Mitsotakis do it to those who say "I will give you the permits"! Mr. Mitsotakis, give them the loan, because they owe too much! You have to say you'll also enjoy the loan so the pimps can play again. Mr. Spirtzi, what can I say, however, is that no one can make you the best man! Make a best man, see good! If you give your best man the plays of 60% and the pimps took them with 0%, I wouldn't even want to know you, not to have a best man! But I don't understand what you're doing. Well, we said we saw SKAI having fun. But what about SKAI stealing the picture of the Great, are we having fun again? Were we having fun when the "MEGA" went and rheumatized? Nor was that a matter for him to play in the news releases. Of course, that's possible! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the battles initiated by the Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis are continuing and culminating and we are really at such a juncture, at such a time that I honestly cannot understand how Mr Mitsotakis feels. Because how the neo-democrats feel, I know - because one of them is me - today that that struggle finally sees it to be vindicated. So the war with pimps is halved and won. However, they have lost - we all see it - their coolness, seeing that the end of the pimpede reign has arrived and come to an unprecedented state of democratic times, that is, to criminalize even parliamentary control, Mr President. They're wrong. They're using the lawsuits as a muzzle. Dimitris Melissanides preceeded. I'll testify for you. Yannis Alfouzos followed me a few days ago, as he threatened me in the committee of inquiry. I would like to say that these actions of democracy are insulting rather than any MEP, actions that imply their editorial attitude, because people felt that they were uncontrollable and above the laws, that they could trample on the will of the Greek people. As you know, for years now I have tabled many questions on these issues concerning 'greys' or illegal activities of various entrepreneurs or other factors in order for the ministers to check and act appropriately. He says Mr Spirtzis has been waiting a year and a half to see what is going to happen with DIGEA. What's going to happen, Mr. Spirtzi? Tell them to go make an application for the other state institution of Korydallus, because there's a long line there too. That is exactly what I did with my Question No 4233, which Mr Alfouzos asks for EUR 250,000 at my expense. First of all, I say again that I do not take it seriously, because I think that what is important is that Greece does not allow it to be 'Banana', to have a hell of a parliamentary democracy, to have frustrated and terrified MPs. I am sure that all my colleagues - and much more so for me - are giving us even more relief, because we have an ally for the Greek people. At the same time, however, we have an obligation, Mr Ministers, to shield parliamentary control and parliamentary work. So without asking for any personal coverage, it is enough for me how this Step of the House, I said to the Prime Minister's time on a relevant question, which he had come to answer, that anything that can happen to me, but the political world, the Greek citizens, my family, my children, has to know what has happened and from whom it has happened. This is my armour, to denounce all this from the Step of this House today and looking forward to you too, to believe that you too will do the right thing, so that no one will feel unprotected and that the parliamentary world of the country and democracy are persecuted, in this permanent and cruel race, with those who think they can still act against the country and the institutions unaccompanied and also armored. [[This is where the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] So, Mr President, I shall end, as the Minister knows, the question is democracy and transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u46	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude, Mr President. But I think that what I said before must be heard, and that is why I am saying it, because the time is right. Minister, I mentioned these, with a more recent example of ERT's official complaint against SKAI, according to which Mr Alfouzouzou's private television station seized the transmission of state television from the celebrity service of Tinos on the day of the 15th century. ERT pays, i.e. the Greek people, to play a private station. So I wonder what the consequences for the private station can be, what is provided for by the institutional framework, and whether this case was sent to the public prosecutor or whether the state institutions have on their own initiative, in order to punish a intercept, which, in my view, is absolutely indicative of what we want to do and what we do not give account, continue to exist in our television realm. And if that is the case, if no procedure has been initiated against Mr Alfouzos' "SKAI" by the institutional bodies or by the ERT, then I wonder, Minister, what right the state itself punishes some who may be waffles, because they steal electricity from PPC, or if they can in the same comfort a dealer, who pays an expensive rent for his shop, go to Agia Paraskevi and open a new store free of charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u48	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Nicolopoulis, it's obvious that this is theft. And it's the theft, which insults the property of ERT, which is the material, which produces and offends, of course, I think also the viewers. However, I think that what affects all of us most, the whole political world - and I hope that the Civic Opposition is identical to this position, which the political world needs to formulate - is that, when it was evident that some were caught with the Vulture on the back and it turned out to have stolen ERT material, instead of apologizing, they asked for the change. I would like to submit to the Proceedings cd, which contains relevant videos which demonstrate that the image of the ERT was stolen, that its signals were covered and documented in a way, I think, beyond any doubt that this fact has been drawn up. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister of State, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above electronic storage medium, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is, I think, a symptom of a general culture of the ownership of channels, that is to say property, which they think the public property exists to serve them and that one can have a private business and be fanatical to the private initiative, but a private initiative, which is, unfortunately, based on thefts and the loan and unscrupulous. And this thing here, I think, is not about the present government, it is not about this government majority. It concerns the political world, which must at these critical times stand up and protect what it must protect, the public interest. So I tell you, Mr President, that the ERT has made the announcements, it has sent its outlets, and from the first moment it informed the Greek people. I submit to the minutes and the out-of-courts and the announcements. [[At this point, the Minister of State, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to tell you that the ERT will proceed with the deposit of reference messages for the event. We will not let it pass like this, and the property of the Greek people will be protected and understood, I think, everyone that ERT is not a poor relative of the television landscape. It is the public broadcaster, who is everywhere, where, as has recently been proved, private channels do not see it very profitable, for example in all major events. For the rest, I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, honestly, those who are now seeing this debate on their screens on the channel of the House, what would they like to ask Mr Pappas? "Okay, Mr. Poppa, that is, one who goes and steals the public, steals the image of the Great, today is a candidate?" Well done, Mr. Grandpa! Congratulations, Mr. Grandpa! So what? And what about it? Will one or the other of these 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 15 million euros and leave the other EUR "magasy" indebted to pay for them? Unless you have something to tell us, to lose their sleep, even though on the ranch that will be 'free-sieged' tonight, the smokers will be in the dark tomorrow, I'm afraid, and I feel sorry for the smokers. Let me tell you, Minister, that is, can a cannabis take part in the contest, when the prosecutors have reached the point of saying, "You might have 50 million tax evasion and because I'm afraid of you, am I binding on you all your real estate and mobile property"? Mr President, imagine that this will happen - far from us - to you or to me, to the financial prosecutor and to say 'I commit to him all his mobile and immovable property'. Mr. Poppa, I'm sorry, do you know that these bank accounts have to be closed? And why do you keep the Stournaris and all these professional commanders? Why are you holding them? What are they? In the unavoidable? All right, the others are the morals. Why don't they turn off the bills? What kind of money are they coming with? Excuse me very much, does the bail letters of a man who has no property? How's he gonna pay his staff now? With what money? Is his dad gonna give him? Where? We should know. People ask. They come out and make us the guardians of others. Is that a lie? He's a defendant, and the other canalarch, who came to the House, like he was in the cafeteria, ready to order coffee. That Mr. Canalarch begged, saying he didn't have all the money he was asked for, so he wouldn't run out for the outside. You'll see what's going to happen tomorrow, to file a complaint with him for a false witness and a liar in the trial. That's where you'll see. And he's still a candidate. Mr Pappa, can you explain to us what is going to happen with all these 'good children', all of these, all of them, all of them 'breath flowers'? But they're indicted. They're indicted! Nicolopoulos doesn't say so. But they're bound to the property. What property do they come with and complain about? Because the best man - he says - took Spirtzi's ten minutes because the Attica Bank stuck the system. He's stuck, he says. With real money and complaining. Those with "towels", with "towels" and make guys. With the Greek people's money! I'm like this too, Mr. Poppa. Can you give EUR 1.5 billion to us too? Mr Pappa, I think we should, at least today, tell us that on Wednesday, we will not laugh at their camels, but we want you to make us proud. We want you to do what the Karamanlis government failed. Let him go. It's okay. People understand. He understands very well. "Tell me your friend, I'll tell you who you are." He sees who he's identified, and people know very well. So give us clean answers, day when they are today: The ones with what money are they coming and joining the contest? Have you checked all this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u53	I would ask the President to allow me to make a statement and what I have just said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u54	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin with a piece of your question, which you mentioned in your first place, Mr Nicolopoulos, in relation to the collection of the fee for using frequencies and the tax on advertising. Since the end of January 2015, we have counted on what the previous governments did not charge for, with adopted laws relating to the end of the use of frequencies of 2% on tick and advertising tax. I am presenting in the Minutes today's document of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which shows that 50 million euros have been collected from these two taxes, which were voted on and were not charged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Poppa, didn't they have ads saying they were illegal and shouldn't pay them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u57	Listen, Mr Nicolopoulos, we must recognise everyone the right to defend their legitimate interests. They went to court. The courts have not justified them and the case no longer concerns the tax authorities. We've been to taxi. Others did one single, others regulated. Everything is legal. We are not spared to anyone, and I would say to you - at a time when the Greek people are called upon to put their backs on. In relation to the specific candidate, Mr Alafuzo, to whom you referred, the conditions for participation in the competition are too strict. Each participating company has submitted its tax and banking information. All this has been thoroughly examined. Here we are to see anything else. In relation to the charges, the charges are...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u58	So you've looked into it? Is he in the bank?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Colleague, timely discussions, we're not...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u60	But the question is in it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u61	Within the question, Mr Nicholas, I say that bank information has been filed, we are now in the last stage of the tender. Let me tell you that sad is this: Many dare to talk about this competition, and the Census says it is a parody competition, a competition that has nine participants for four television licences. This competition is a travesty and it was not a travesty to open the way with which they gave the company, which was the meeting - not to say anything worse - of the existing badly and unauthorized pan-Hellenic television stations and delivered the air of the country. There was a boom. And as the Minister for Infrastructure said, things in relation to this contract must definitely take their way. What to compare? Comparing the tender now being conducted, which has very strict conditions for the corporate form, with the DIGEA tender, the competition for the network provider, who even single-faced companies would have allowed them to participate and which did not have as a prerequisite any control over the origin of the funds? To compare the tender, which is now being conducted with a tender, which has violated the principle, which we everywhere want to apply, is not the network provider itself with the content provider? I would like, Mr Nicolopoulos, by closing, first of all, to the New Democracy and to say to her that she has to revise, withdraw and change the line on the cancellation of the tender. What does New Democracy say? Will permits be granted after thirty years in this country, for the first time legal, and if he ever takes authority, will he withdraw them and return the money? To give them to who? To restore this regime? Primary generosity and rationality are needed. Today, the New Democracy must, instead of criticising us, withdraw and say that it will recognise the result and not mock the Greek people and refer to the decisions of the Council of State, which have been saying for years that this status has been illegal and in the last decisions on the insurance measures submitted by television stations, which, in their view, say there is a public interest in the rapid conclusion of the tender. This government will also implement the Constitution and the laws. I would like to address, Mr Nicholas, and my predecessors, who have recently taken the sword and attacked us for a few minutes recently. I will invite them to honour their past, to explain to the Greek people why they did not do what the law intended and why there was no competition for their own term of office. Somebody put them on trips? Somebody pushed them? Did they make trips to themselves? This is what the Greek people expect me to hear from predecessors and not cheap criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u62	You can say about the ERT movie, Mr. Pappa, and how he reached his "SKAI".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u64	I shall conclude in thirty seconds, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Finally, I would like to say to all the participants in the competition: how to overcome legality is there and no one should be provoking his luck. The laws apply to everyone regardless of their pockets, regardless of their name, regardless of their intent past and future. It's over and out. Anyone who thinks that it is possible, by terrorizing public officials, to circumvent the first process, which is transparent and crystal clear for the competition, to mislead and to think that it is living in previous times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the first row under number 1175/22-8-2016 is the topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Serres of the New Democracy, Mr Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the "fresh" of all the assessments of damages on farms and by extension of allowances from the ELGA. The Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Markos Bolaris. Ladies and gentlemen, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the first day of parliamentary scrutiny after August's interruption coincides with the collapse of one of the government's heaven-memory promises of Tsipras-Kammenos. And who else, of course? This dismantling of the ENPIA. Who does not remember the election commitments made by Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos, calling on the world not to pay the HISA as a very unfair tax? Who doesn't remember Mr. Tsakalotos protesting outside Thessaloniki's tax office with banners and promulgating the abolition of ENPIA? Instead, today, 29 August, more than two hundred fifty thousand owners are called upon to pay about a thousand euros more ISPA than the one imposed by the "bad" otherwise, New Democracy. Of course, such promises you have made - not to say to the most popular 'flame' - to farmers, as similar promises have been made for seven months, your leadership, Mr Minister, to the ELGA assessors, that you will resolve the issue of their movements, in order to carry out their valued work, the problem of movements which you have created, of course, and to relieve the farmers at least of stress and the long-term delay in the assessments and therefore compensation for the damage they suffer in their plant and livestock. And I say before that you have created this problem, because with the well-known Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos, Minister, you changed the scope for the performance of the assessment of the necessary assessments to be carried out by the assessors, which was, of course, guaranteed by the Joint Ministerial Decision in New Democracy on 31-1-2014 and by the resolution, of course, another provision on 6-7-2016, which is now being proposed to ELGA valuers to move by means of public transport, in order to go to farmers' fields and to make assessments. It is a regulation which, of course, does not solve the problem you have created, but it creates - let me say - the remembrance - not to say the indignation - of the agro-food world, which is not enough to damage, but which has to be seen by an estimator of the ELGA in his fields I do not know how many months. As a result, Minister, more than 100 000 declarations of damage have, of course, been submitted for more than 10 million acres and many of them have become unpredictable, because critical time has passed. I would therefore like to ask what immediate action you intend to take in order to restore the pre- and properly functioning situation in carrying out the assessment audit by the competent authorities of the ELGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Arabatzis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, since you have referred to a matter which does not concern the Ministry of Rural Development, I should just like to tell you that we understand your concern about the statements made by HICPs who will pay above, stressing that, for seven million four hundred thousand taxpayers and tax returns, the increase relates to two hundred and fifty thousand. Understood your anxiety! This shows the political difference and perception of the government's approach to Civicism. In relation to your question, the truth is that when I got her, I searched when you filed her, because I have the impression that what she says is not happening today. It happened for a few months ago, a time when there was the end, the end of a ministerial decision. And in the mid-term, there was an empty space. But let's put things in order. You refer to your question text on late payments compared with 2015. The truth, then, is that all the obligations of the 2015-2013 ELGA have been met! - except for the statements on which objections have been lodged. In particular, there was an amount, which was 117 million for the 2015 compensation. On August 10, another 16 million were paid, so that 95% of the ELGA 2015 contributions have been completed. I would stress that 5% is due to the submission of objections, which are judged by the committees, to be paid immediately. As soon as the objections are ended, and we have decisions, they are paid. Also, funds have been paid for the first quarter of 2016. The total is 132,960,000 euros. In the second part, I shall refer to my dentistry, Mr President. We're covered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Arapatzis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u70	Because I saw an extremely ironic tone in your answer, Minister, I personally am not concerned about your irony. I imagine, however, that it should be your concern and I would expect at least an apology for what the citizens currently have in relation to HISA. Forgive us, Minister, for bringing to the topical questions of urgency, which is currently affecting the entire social and professional fabric of the country. To come to this question in itself, because you were amazed, as you said, when you read it, to go to the truth we know, in relation to the payment of compensation from your body. Is it true, Minister, that the compensation for 2015 amounts to EUR 35 million? Is it true that, for four months, you did not pay euros to the farmers affected, when, on a permanent basis - and on previous governance - the compensation was paid twice a month? It's such a periodicity. Is it true that you are currently owed - in the ninth month of 2016-19 millions of compensation in 2015, when in full, Minister, for each previous year, the first quarter of next year was paid over all the compensation? In other words, with the logic of the previous government, Minister, since March 2016 you should have paid and not come and say fake numbers and numbers here. You will also allow me to remind you that the objections, Minister, are not unprecedented in relation to the assessments. Always and firmly there were objections and always and firmly, and in time ELGA paid them. So don't want to renounce responsibility. The numbers are specific. And since you are a little insulting, I would like you to tell me: Do you know that, with this fine modification to the value of ELGA employees' work, municipal correspondents have abandoned their work, the demarcators are not going to help the ELGA valuers, so that the ELGA valuers pay 10% of what they have earned in previous years and the insured farmers, who regularly pay their contributions, are two speeds? In other words, where the transport of the CBEL arrives, in order for the valuer of the ELGA to go and where the transport of the CBEL does not reach and therefore the farmer is not entitled to assessment and therefore no compensation is due. He is not entitled to compensation, even though he pays, Mr Minister, his insurance contributions and is not entitled to compensation, even though he goes to make a statement on his claims, he pays a contribution. And to clarify things - because the seasons are very difficult - here, Minister, we have not come to make a syndicate claim of the demands of the appreciators of the ELGA. It is absolutely a code that belongs to ELGA, it is not at all a burden to the state budget and it comes from farmers' contributions. And you are now illegally withholding this money, as you do withhold, I imagine, illegally - and we need an answer - as much of the ELGA is available. I remind you that you "wraped" 50 million with that notorious MDG in April 2015 and since then they are missing. So instead, Minister, answer us with - let me say - untrue information, answer us when the remaining 19 million will be paid and when you will return the available ELGA, which you have "wrapped" with the notorious MIP of April 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u72	The Rules of Procedure of Parliament provide for how we function both on topical and on topical questions. If, then, you want to pluralize, taking a topical issue and bringing it into a process, which has two or three minutes' answer, do not complain when we respond to your popular outrage. Secondly, you referred to false evidence. I'll be right back. The evidence we answer from this Step, consistently and responsibly, is evidence that has come in writing from the ELGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u73	Put it in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u74	So if you have any other information, you can come back with written questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u75	We told you about the 19 million!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u76	Please respect the procedure very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u77	You respect her, and you suggest her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u79	You're right, Minister. Madam Colleague, please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u80	The document, which I have from ELGA, says that the outstanding outstandings, are found in objections and re-checks, where the amount, according to the estimates of ELGA services, does not exceed EUR 1.5 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u81	For when?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u82	So I move on to the answer. If you have any further questions, the procedure is planned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u83	I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u84	Follow her, come back. And when you have questions about other ministries, come back and address the relevant ministries. Therefore, ELGA's services, within the framework of the legislation of July 6, have already given the travel orders for geotechnics, for valuers. Estimates have already begun on all branches in the territory. That is why I said earlier that I was amazed at what you have said in your question, because these concerned the period before Parliament's legislature and not the period on 27 or 28 July where you tabled the timely question. You also raise a matter of concern - which is justified - for farmers as to what happens when we have a problem with the subject. We therefore assure the farmers, all those who have been affected and all those who need support and compensation from the ELGA, that for the purpose of formulating the final conclusion, on the basis of which the ELGA pays the compensation, the services take into account all the elements in the formation of the percentage of the damage which is formed at the end. In other words, the initial labels made by the local assessor are the preferences, they are the delivery invoices of the products, the 'witnesses' left by the parcels and, of course, the final assessment. It's a five-point process. That is why it is quite clear that none of the producers have any reason to worry about the wording of the finding and, of course, about the amount of compensation paid, since it is all applicable and will be implemented today. Of course, in the case where we have issues - the producer knows it, the injured knows it - we also have the procedure of objections to the re-checker. The question is the money that the Greek farmer submits as a contribution to ELGA, to get back to their colleague, the farmer, who has the damage. That's the anxiety and concern from the Ministry. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Minister. Series is Question No 6858/12-7-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Javara to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the disasters in orange production in the Prefecture of Elias from the cross-cutting insect. The Minister will answer the question. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u86	Mr Minister, before I refer to this question and to the motions for a resolution, I would like to say that you have already turned to the colleague, while a few moments ago we witnessed the theatricalisation of the parliamentary control procedure. We have reached the point of listening to my colleague and Minister of Government having set up a co-legislator to carry out parliamentary control in the New Democracy and its President! So no one can tolerate this in this Chamber, since, of course, he is committed - as you must be - to respecting the spirit and the letter of the Rules of Procedure. This question here has a story. It started as a simple question. It is a very important issue, but it did not receive the attention of your Ministry, so that I did not receive the answer I expected at least in writing. With this data, I ran it in time. Indeed, in addition to the timeliness to which I have referred and is the constant timeliness of respect for the spirit of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, there is something that I believe you should at least - I have no reason to expect the opposite - to have covered it with your attention. This is the great national effort to rebuild the place in the primary sector, in the agricultural sector of production and of the economy. Here, then, is the primary diligence we need to show to salvage and protect the competitive crops, the crops, that is, which, in specific locations in Greece, because of the favourable climate and the environment of the expert, have actually given quality fruits and are a competitive advantage for our economy. So, in the region of Elias, traditionally and systematically, orange is cultivated. This tree, for the last five to six years, in the area of at least the Municipality of Pyrgos, the Municipality of Ancient Olympia, the Municipality of Krestena - Andritsina and the Municipality of Olympia - Zacharos has been affected by an insect which, as the experts say, is included in the category of hemiteres. This particular insect directly insults the plants because it releasing the nutritious juices, and indirectly because it allows the growth of tobacco fungus in the sprouts, leaves and fruits, thus degrading the product and eliminating its commercial value. The orange producers of Elijah are desperate. That is why, Minister, we would like to see the Government and your own personal assistance and immediate assistance, so as to coordinate the services of the State in order to take all the measures that will bring about the recovery and fight against this phenomenon, which has essentially nullified agricultural income in this crop. Secondly, we certainly want specific initiatives from you to prevent this phenomenon, because it is constantly expanding. So far it has covered 50% of the areas where oranges are cultivated in the Prefecture of Elias. There are other areas which seem to have the same phenomena in time or after two years. Thirdly, there is a question of financial support for producers who in conditions of economic crisis, because of this reason they have lost their incomes. That is why we would like you to take concrete measures, which we expect to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u88	My colleague, the fact that the previous question concerned television stations and broadcasting, has affected you to characterise it as a theatrical one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u89	Minister, especially you, I respect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u90	So let me tell you, because it is really important and well you have brought the question here, that it is not new. This cross-cutting has been highlighted in the country since 1980. It's an old case. But he hadn't caused us any trouble. The opinion of scientists is that there was a beneficial insect that combated this cross-cutting. They have come to this, because there is another flourishing mushroom that has spread across Greece and which we have managed to deal with in coordinated action. There was indeed in Athens. The Athenians recall that they had filled all the citrus and ornaments of Athens creating a huge problem. This year, as you say, we really have spread to areas north of the initial appearance. We therefore need a coordinated effort to be made by the services, central and regional authorities, Elias and the institutions to fight against it. We also need to work with producers. What they assure in terms of the scientific world and the institutes is that there is a beneficial insect with which they must intervene. But that needs a study. Corridor has been dealt with in other states. There need to be synergies. He has also dealt with Benaicio and the closest to Elia TEI Kalamatas. We need a coordination. You are in this phase, in coordination that will help us understand how to support the beneficial insect to deal with the problem. This is certainly not the case this year. This year we need other actions. We have to intervene. So we are talking with producers, associations, cooperatives and local services to have a direct solution, which requires rational use of a medicine to deal with. Because, as you know well, the sidewalk doesn't mind the orange, it just leaves beetles on the orange bark and that's where the "smoking" is. We are therefore in cooperation to have the approval of the insecticide needed to deal with the'smoking'. We hope that the reassurances of the rural areas involved in this and from Benaicio and the TEI will be that we will have a whole deal. If we don't have one, we'll see the rest of the questions you're asking. The certainty is that if we move today - because the problem is now being brought to us in August - we have time to save the season and support income so that producers don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u94	Minister, I am glad that what you have said is that you intend to combat this particular situation, which is unfavourable and which produces damage. But here, I need to insist on two things. First of all, you were right to say, but what happened in the last three - four years with cross-cutting - because, as you quite rightly said, there are two other species in the same confederacy, the polluter and the meal - the one that gives the potential to develop smoking, the tanning, that is, the fruits, not only the aesthetic damage, but also the functionality, because the "smoking" that sits on the sprouts and leaves limits the photosynthetic ability of the plant. Therefore, we also have from this point of view, together with the fermentation of nutrient juices, a reduction in production. I believe, however, that so far the services in Elias and the "DIMITRA" Agency, based in Patras, have dealt with this issue. Today, indeed, I also contacted the relevant insectologist of the Benakey Plant Health Institute. What has now happened is a special development in the matter and relates to the following fact: Because farmers and producers have somehow left indignant, made unnecessarily use of insecticides, resulting in the insect in question being fought, eliminated, and what you have rightly termed "negative parasite", i.e. the natural enemy, the opponent as an insect of this injurious effect. So it would have come to a balance if this insecticide were not used, as I said before. So here we have a special case concerning the fact that the ecosystem balance has been disturbed. That is why, with a little relative money, I have asked, it can strengthen this useful and actually have better results of time. I am pleased, however, that you have already made your decision. And I believe that in that direction, if you call the people responsible, there will be a result. And we will also contribute to bringing the evidence. The second is the following: Minister, I think that at last you must link your name to the rationalisation and modernisation of the Plant Production Insurance Regulation. Article 2 provides only for two cases, for natural phenomena and wild animals. Where there is the RAMSAR Treaty, I believe that it cannot adequately protect producers when, after the generalisation of compulsory insurance, we have indeed forced farmers to pay very substantial sums from their income for contributions. If I am not deceived, I had heard from your predecessor, Mr. Koukoulopoulos, to answer this question by saying that a reform was already ready in this direction at the Ministry. They should also be enriched, but - if you want - and the agricultural insurance of the competent body and in some important cases damage caused by bacteria and insects should be extended. I think this is a delay, which at least we all owe to farmers, who, as producers, are exposed to so many and great dangers, especially at a time when we all expect the productive reconstruction of the primary sector to have the greatest and most important contribution to the development that we all look forward to following the recovery for which we are all also working on. I therefore believe that we should also, with your help, have results in the next few months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, because I know that you are particularly careful about words and expressions, I would say that I did not mention what was done on the ground, but I said that we are being organised so that there is a rational use of insecticides, so that we can deal with the tobacco issue. I referred to what has been done without mentioning it. We are now obliged to have two actions. I do not propose - I correct you - but I say to you that there is an action plan. There are two directions, one of which is the definitive treatment with the benefits, and the other is this year's treatment with the rational and reasoned use of the tobacco medicine in order to prevent it. You were right to refer to the ELGA in detail. I would like to tell you that there is a committee working for a modernisation, a change, an improvement in the regulation that ELGA has, but this work is complex. In other words, it's not just a legal text. It wants a scientific work, which concerns the plant world, a scientific work that concerns the animal world, as well as a work on the insurance part, that is to say, to operate modern and efficiently. There is also a fifth job, which is about technology, how this organisation can operate at speeds, since we are at an electronic age. All this "works" and ELGA and the Ministry, in order to bring a legislation that is complete and not to be considered an intervention in the problem with tobacco in the Tower and not in the problem with tomatoes in Ierapetra, but to deal with it gradually. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing two requests for permission for absence. Mr Athanasios Bouras seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from 26 August to 2 September 2016. Also, SYRIZA MP from the Prefecture of Imathia Mrs Karasarlidou Euphoria calls for a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons from August 26th to September 1st 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u98	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Here is the fourth question by number 1179/23-8-2016 of the First Cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Ministers for Economic and Rural Development and Food, on excise duty in wine. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Tree Alexiadis, will answer. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, your Government has proceeded with the unfortunate and unacceptable imposition of excise duty on wine at a charge of EUR 0.20 per litre. This tax, independently of the category and value of wine, has hit the bulk wine of popular consumption. Almost doubled the price in bulk wine. That is why we are saying that this tax is also unfair. This is a tax which contributes to speeding up the destruction of small and medium-sized wine producers, thereby facilitating the concentration and centralisation of large capitalist agricultural and wine-growing farms, which will, of course, become even greater, since this is the policy of the European Union's common agricultural policy, the Greek governments over time, like your own, of today's SYRIZA - ANEL. It also affects other Greek professions, mainly self-employed, small and medium-sized professionals. I am referring to small, family wineries in the focus area, the liquor stores and thousands of workers working in wineries throughout the country at risk of redundancies, with rotating work, with wage cuts. The JRC had opposed this tax. He did not vote for him, even by tabling an amendment to his immediate abolition, which was certainly not accepted by your Government. The negative results are already evident. Sales within the country have decreased. Of the sixty thousand wine-growing holdings registered in the wine register, only the twenty-seven thousand, or 17%, made a digital presentation of a harvest declaration, not according to CEC data, but with CEC data. Therefore, of course, there is not even the estimated revenue for the State. The same negative sizes of the sector because of the common agricultural policy supported by excise duty were announced at the general meeting of the CEOSOE, where the data are very specific. The Greek vineyard decreased by about 20% in 2015. Wine production has fallen by about 30% over the past twenty-five years. Wine consumption has retreated over the past twenty years by around 25%. In addition, consumption per consumer has fallen by 25% over the past twenty years. We therefore believe that the concern of small and medium-sized wine producers for this tax is justified, because it is of course a matter of their survival. In other words, it is not enough for the increased cost of production, for the government's tax policy, for the increase in insurance contributions and for the various carpets, now they are also faced with this excise duty on wine. I would remind you of what the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs said about excise duty, clarifying that it is, as he said, an exclusive option for the government alone. Of course, for us, for the JRC, all of you, and the previous PASOK-New Democracy conflicts and the current SYRIZA-ANEL, you have jointly planned and implemented this tax policy of extermination. None of you are innocent pigeons. Now, of course, one puts the blame on another to get rid of. Let me remind you that since 2012, and the then governments of New Democracy - PASOK have been charging the IMF for drawing up the anti-popular list, which has been including the imposition of the standard excise duty on wine since then, while they had drawn it up jointly with the Troika. You do the same today. You are evaporating workers together as consumers, the poor farmer, and you are donating the wine-industrials, i.e. capital. So, on the basis of all the above, we are asking you very specifically what you intend to do. On the basis of the information we have given you, will you abolish this absurdly disastrous excise duty on wine? Will you also satisfy the law and the requirement of small and medium-sized farmers, the representatives who took part in the last general meeting of the CEOEC, in order to abolish this special tax? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, for reasons of parliamentary order, I would like to say that I have answered two topical questions, in written questions and in references. But I'll answer yours. It is simply a matter which I think has been exhausted by Parliament. It makes no sense to go back to the same thing all the time. The government was forced a year ago to take tough measures after a difficult negotiation. And we have politically explained the political trekking that forced us to reach this agreement. I fully understand your disagreement with these measures. Of course, at some point, for reasons of political history, it would be nice to hear your own political proposal, what had to be done then, and not generally and vaguely, to make a criticism of the government. If you have the political right to criticism without tabling a proposal, I understand that. As far as this issue is concerned, however, because you bring it back without saying the background, we brought a provision on VAT to education, we followed procedures, we had elections, there was a lot of discussion in the Greek society and the Greek Government tried to find measures that could be compensatory, equivalent tax, so that we could remove VAT from education. At that time we did not hear you table a proposal to replace VAT revenues in education with another revenue. The government has been able to negotiate and brought these measures. One of them was this measure. We know very well about this measure. We're in constant contact with the winemakers. We support the Greek winery, which gives its battles and goes very well, for example, on export issues. We support it with every measure. We fully understand the problems that this taxation creates, but we cannot do anything else. As far as this issue is concerned, we have taken concrete steps to achieve this tax. I'm going to present you with a series of documents I'm going to say in my speech. We have also made a specific operational plan that has been to the audit services since the beginning of August, so that this procedure can work. As far as this measure is concerned, therefore, let me make a general reference. These measures that we voted on with L.4336 are not measures expressing our ideological DNA or measures that we will have permanently in Greece. Whether it concerns the wine tax or the ENPI, it is measures that we have taken to keep the country on a path through a political necessity and not through a political choice. When we can budgetaryly do something different, these measures will begin to change direction, tax content and have another target. It is not what we will have permanently in Greece. We've explained that too many times. As I said about these, Mr President, because I have heard a great deal about HISBIA in this Chamber before I can say that HISBIA is a typical example. HNPH for 2016 - because it relates to the tax issues that you put in your question - despite the catastrophe, Maurilla, the misinformation they tried to make specific media, namely political parties, finally comes to them. Because the citizens, today, see their clearing houses, find that 92% of the 7.4 million certain liquidators have no HPAI at all, because they are under 1 euro - they will not come out at all cleansing - or they will have the same HPAI as last year or have less HPAI from last year or have up to 10 euros. All the previous propaganda therefore collapsed for those who have neither a political strategy nor a plan for what is going to happen. However, in the specific questions of your question to make it easier for you, I will submit to you a document from the Directorate-General for Customs and Excise Taxes, which is also doing a very good job in these areas, the document I have sent to the GDR recently, at the request of the Association of Greek Wine, to intensify the checks at this time precisely to make the tax effective and, finally, useful statistics which I have given in response to Mr Bassiako in a written question and which have not yet been placed on the website of this House, because the written answer has now been given. That's it for your better information. So I give you the full details to get a better picture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u103	Mr Minister, you said at the outset that you have exhausted the matter by parliament. I would remind you that the JRC much earlier than other Members of Parliament have tabled this question to you, regardless of whether the other parties and the Members of the other parties are following on exactly how the JRC is intervening in this House and what questions it is asking. But you are obliged, regardless of that, to answer all the topical questions, reports and questions concerning either this matter or another. So it is an issue that you have to answer, and after all, it is not exhausted because you do not abolish excise duty. In fact, you say here that you will step up the checks, which I will say below. You also said about compensatory measures. You are well aware that the JRC's political proposal, the JRC's political stance towards your policy is quite the opposite, it is a political break in the face of big capital, in the European Union's policy, in the common agricultural policy, because it is precisely the tomb of small and medium-sized producers, the workers as a whole. So, could the JRC raise a question of compensatory measures, which you have put into communication to cover reality, confusing workers, assuming that either with one or the other compensatory measure a sector, a sector of economy, some workers will be able to escape? You are fooling the world with all these communication tricks, because either the tax on education or the tax on wine again will be paid by the farmers, again, by the representatives of the education sector. From that point on, all your poorness is how you step up the tax controls to detect any illegal wine production and trafficking, to smuggle it as if it were tax evasion. That is what you said on 28th of the month in your statements. So, what are you telling us? You tell us that 83% of winegrowers who did not make digital submissions of a harvest declaration are tax-growers, they are fraudulent. In other words, you and your own controls will turn to 83% of the vineyards. That's what you're telling us. No, Minister, it is not the winegrowers that are illegal, it is the tax imposed and your robbery tax policy. Act on behalf of the industrialists who, due to the reduction in consumption, want to end up with the small ones, in order to concentrate on both land and production, to control the entire production, marketing and movement of wine in order to ensure their unfettered profitability. They and their pursuits serve your own policy, your government, like the other parties of the New Democracy and PASOK, all of them exactly the same question, how, in other words, the controls will be intensified, how the paradox will be struck, which your own policy does and now, of course, you are just trying to say how we are going to hit this paradox economy. Seek tax-raisers to those whose interests you defend, to business groups, industrialists, shipowners, big-time crafters, wine-growing workers, who are charitablely exempted from municipal fees, tax-free and tax-free privileges granted to them through development laws. Spoils for who loses and who wins. And I will also convey to you a picture of a very dynamic wine-growing region, Heraklion, in a region where generations and generations have grown up, studied, built a household from the vineyard and its products, raisins, wine, tableware, as well as from the oil and policy of the European Union, the common agricultural policy, your governments, come today and demolish. Some big businessmen - and on the occasion of the special tax - are blackmailing producers, telling them you what? We, he says, have the tax, we pay those prices. We have costs, tax, bottling costs and a lot of other things. They say to the producers: 'Get your grapes and you'll be paid next year'. Another tells them 30% of payment on Christmas and the rest - at best - in June. So here's how they blackmail by transferring the special tax to the producer itself. Small and medium-sized farmers, in other words, do not have a cost? The drugs, the supplies, the oil, the harvest costs, isn't that a cost? Aren't they destroying small and medium-sized production? This is the greatest illegality you don't want, but neither can you step on. The illegality is inherent in the capitalist way of production itself and has its starting point in the search for maximum profit from the wine-industrials, from cartels, brokers, the big dealers. At what prices do you think producers are going to the wineries? For the sultan, who makes white wine and retsina, it's 17 to 20 minutes a kilo. Not as much as a cigarette costs, not a pack, a cigarette in the pack, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u105	I shall conclude, Mr President. The cooperative associations of Heraklion and Pedigs do the same. These are the cooperative associations created by the New Democracy and PASOK, which you continued with your own laws, turning from associations of producers into associations of capitalists, which give degrading prices for black varieties of grapes, such as syrah, 30 to 40 minutes a kilo - not a small bottle of water - and these owed. So this is your policy, which is coming to abstraction, in fact, to mitigate what is left of small and medium-sized production and, of course, to exacerbate the problem, Mr President, because there is the problem of ammunition this year in producers. They didn't produce much of the grapes and oil. And it is coming to further increase this despair of producers. The JRC, Minister, has a political proposal, but the political proposal does not come into the narrow corset of your own policy, of political subordination to monopolies, of the European Union, or of any partners in the troika, the quartet, the International Monetary Fund, and the European Central Bank. No, we are talking about a policy of break-up and overthrowing this policy, about another society with people's power, where the small and medium-sized producer will be co-operated, not destroyed, but this is a struggle of constant workers, it means that the people must take the case in their hands, rise up. That is why we invite all farmers, workers and professionals on September 9th to Thessaloniki at the grand rally organized by PAME and other class and trade union organizations, the class trade union movement, to this policy implemented by the government, the European Union and all the cord of Euro-Union policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u106	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. I will not need three times as much time as the one provided for in the Rules of Procedure, as you kindly gave the honourable Member, to reply. I'm just gonna try and clear up a few things so no misunderstanding can arise. Mr Papoutsis, I will not follow you into attempting to dress it up with various dark interests and conspiracy and that this government, because you said heavy expressions, serves large-scale manufacturers and brings graceful regulations. Bring me in what previous period have been done to all these “big - one ” things you said so that I do not waste time to tell them so many tax controls. Bring me what you saw in the previous period. Tell me when in the past those who, not just had tax immunity, were the ones who defined tax policy and tax controls in friendly and opposite persons as they did at this time. But I'm going to get over this one...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u108	Inside there included...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u109	I think the three-fold time you had from your speech gave you the opportunity to convince those who are listening to us. The two of us are in the House, both of us and the President. Respect, then, that I have not interrupted at all. As far as the issue of controls is concerned, however, it is clear that we will also carry out checks on this tax and on any other tax, because we do not play with the fate of the Greek people. We have made an agreement, we have to implement a budget, we have to have concrete revenue. At some point what I ask you - not personally, but politically - is to answer: you do not want to have this tax. Do you want to have another tax in his place? You don't want to have HISBIA. Do you want to have a fortune tax? And if you want to tax property, what property and what purpose of recovery? Finally, you put forward a proposal. That's what I told you. Because our political difference is that you want to have a permanent role of political prosecutor without tabling a political proposal. Political difference, of course, we do. So, as far as this tax is concerned, we have explained the necessity, which led us to impose this tax, and we have explained why we have taken this decision and we are doing everything possible to tax the Treasury so that we have revenue from those sources and those who have not paid so many years so that we can alleviate other categories of citizens. It is clear that both this tax and a number of other taxes, which we have had to either maintain or legislate this year, are taxes which will be reviewed in the logical context of the changes that they will have, by trying to escape supervision and to go to a different economic model. So the government's attitude is very clear. It is clear and the political difference that we have. But be sure that we with public finances will not play, nor will we try to deceive either the citizens or the House. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not discuss the second question with number 1181/23-8-2016 in the first cycle of the Halkidiki MP, and with the abandoned fishing vessels, which cause problems in the New Potidia Canal, because of an impediment - unsuccessful obligations - of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy. Also, the third question under number 1178/22-8-2016 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the adoption of a joint ministerial decision on the designation as flooders in the areas of Arcadia, affected by the natural disaster of June, due to the impediment of the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, will not be discussed. We will not discuss the first question with number 1176/22-8-2016 of the new Republic MP Evros, Anastasios Prussias Prussias, with the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the situation of red loans in Evros and Thrace, due to the absence of the relevant Minister George Stathakis abroad. We will not discuss the second question with number 1182/23-8-2016 in the second question of the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Finance, on the "TRAINOSE scandal" in relation to the incomplete honour of 45 million euros, due to the absence of Minister Euklidis Tsakalotou abroad. The fourth question, with number 1180/23-8-2016, will not be discussed in the fourth question of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the exclusion from the associated aid, on the basis of the obsolete limit of 120 kilograms of milk per animal, for thousands of farmers with intensified breeds due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-29-S1-commons.u111	With the consent of the House at 20.10 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, August 30, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
