ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION REQUESTS FOR APPROVAL OF BULGARIA Discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament of Mr Konstantinos Barbarousis, Ilia Panayotarou and Mr Ioannis Ragos (a case-file), Mr Christos Kelles and Mr Anastassios Pratsoli. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 5-5-2016, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that the immunity of Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousis, Ilia Panayotarou and Ioannis Lagos be lifted. Furthermore, the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 5-5-2016, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed the lifting of the immunity of Mr Christos Kelles. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 5-5-2016, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed that the waiver of Mr Anastassios Pratssol’s immunity should be waived. In accordance with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity or to prosecution, prosecution or harassment conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by means of an extension or extension, on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each fellow Member will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group, belonging to him, will be recorded in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns my fellow Members Konstantinos Barbarousis, Ilia Panagiotaro and Ioannis Lagos. The second case concerns Mr Christo Kella. The third case concerns Mr Anastasio Pratsoli. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the essence of the debate before the vote. Is there a colleague on the first request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u2	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u3	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u4	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Barbarousis, Mr. Lagos and Mr. Panagiotaros. Mr. Barbarousis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u6	In the last lifting of immunity, I said to this Chamber that I am interested in what you will vote and whether my immunity will be lifted or not. But today I'm interested. I would like you to give me the pleasure of being here before Greek justice, because I have made this great crime to mention in my speech that Greece belongs to the Greeks. Indeed, I have said that and I believe that. Greece belongs to the Greeks and to anyone else. It does not belong to the loan sharks, to which you have become the best servants, nor to all these uninvited mushrooms, who came here, have plucked us into the neck and think they can do anything they smoke them. So do me the great honor of being able to stand up to justice and yell in the courtroom with all my power that Greece belongs to the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u7	We move on to Mr Ilias Panagiotara, who has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I, from the previous parliamentary term with a written statement, said that when I lift immunity for my person, I would automatically be accepted, since the whole institution of immunity is laughable. When we have the characteristic example of an active minister, which has come three times in his waiver of immunity for a felony, because he was taking it, it says the indictment - he was taking the public money and trousing it with others, and Parliament is acquitting him of me for the 13th or 14th time to have a waiver of immunity solely - as you said, Mr President - for cases which conceal political feasibility and nothing else. I will read it to you - because most of you will not have read it and you do not care, when it comes to us, you do not have to read anything - to see for what reasons, we are being forced to go to court. Of course, it will be our honor. Political points we'll get, I'll tell you that. You don't understand that, but it's okay. First of all, we on Golden Dawn support it and fully welcome it, because the only real racism that exists in our country is at the expense of Greek citizens and no one else. So we are in favour of this day and will fight in any way so as to eliminate racism against the Greeks. First of all, racism, which exists among Greeks from the Greek-speaking state itself, which day after day, encroached on you all more and more, strangles you financially, while others, who have no paper passes sugar and have no obligation but rights, while you alone obligations and no right. This and much more must be seen by the prosecutor of racism, who has suffered a great deal of pain for the Golden Dawn, because - let us not hide behind our finger - that is why there is nothing else. Let us remind him, however, that anyone who has been blinded is that the ones who currently violate, primarily, Article 1 of the anti-racist law, which speaks of public incitement to violence through rhetorical hatred, are all those jihadists who, even in Greece, are currently making verbal threats and attacks against those who are not with them, whether they are Greek Christian Orthodoxs or Syrian Orthodoxs, whether they are Cutters Egyptians or etc. And the indictment goes further: "...or the racism against most of you, who are not insurers and you cannot go to a hospital..." - if that reminds you, we are talking about the free professionals, who, with what you voted yesterday, gave them the final blow - "... even though you pay taxes, even though you are paying everything and when you want to go, you must be informed, otherwise there can be no care as it is now, at the same time that some others enter for free, have the bill and call on all of you to pay it." As Adonis Georgiadis said - they did not -, when he was a Minister of Health, “EUR 115 million cost us illegal immigrants in the field of health and we are looking for a way to collect them”. "Or the racism suffered by Greeks, such as labour racism. You go get some work, they're looking at you, and they tell you you're Greek, you're expensive. I will prefer a foreigner who takes fewer, because that is how he has learned to live and does not cost me any insurance.” And it usually comes from anti-racists, this conversation, to know what we're saying. And just below: "Or the racism, which each day the professionals, the craftsmen of the center of Athens, suffer. Like the letter sent by the residents and professionals of the 6th district, who are left. But leaving the detention centers, from Amygdaleza and elsewhere, all the irregular immigrants, to be typically right, who come only here, why don't you take them to Ekali, why don't you take them to the State? But there are the bosses who give the orders. This is where others are coming. We can't work. I cannot have a shop to pay IKA, TEBE, taxes, tax, and from the outside, someone else to sell illegally without giving anything." This is racism against the Greeks - it goes and it's over - and everyone gets it. And let us lift immunity and whatever else they want. A lot of you wonder. You've read it, you've seen it, and you've figured out who's behind all those strings. I will read - because we cannot read a text from the Golden Dawn because we will be regarded as racist - by an approved magazine of the constitutional press, by 'EKAYS', an article entitled 'Their charity plan. Terms for illegal immigrants in Greece". "The aim is to establish them permanently and the country's multicultural mutation. And this is happening throughout Europe, throughout the Earth, where there are certain people and they want to bring some others." We, as Golden Dawn, seek nothing more than faithful law enforcement. We're not asking for anything more. This is also in our election programme for our positions on illegal immigration. This is in our positions that you hear within the Greek Parliament, namely, a faithful application of the laws, the Greek Constitution and nothing else. That's why I'm indebted to someone else. It's for laughing. You can do whatever you want, because, I repeat, when you acquit to Mr Stathakis and his like, for us, he seeks an honor to waive us immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. We move on to the place of Mr. John Bunny. Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Let us make it clear that the waiver of our immunity will take place, because that is foreseeable and we want to do so ourselves. And there will be a waiver of immunity in a case, which is here and which I challenge anyone who wants to read. It's not too big. It's small, because crime evidence isn't too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u11	Please, just quiet down in the Chamber if you're kind. Thank you. Go on, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u12	The evidence of crime, therefore, in this case-file, Mr President, is a fait accompli, with a newspaper headline and talks. If these are not political persecutions, if this is not the case, tell me what is being persecuted. And we are here right now indicted - not by the Greek people - by some of us, because we have the courage to tell our opinion. And after all, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we entered the Greek Parliament, saying exactly these things. And the Greek people voted for us. And it has voted for us to come and apply, as far as possible, precisely these. So here there's a suffocation and there's a thought police. There is a police thinking, which says that in the new order of things we are not allowed to have our own viewpoint. In the new order of things, the one that we are living for, and which you, unfortunately, - and I am not personally referring - are applying to the letter, we must accept and accept what we are told by the system's graves. That's the process. I repeat again and challenge anyone who has the courage to read this file and see what our crimes are. There are only speeches. Here I shall refer to myself personally and tell you the 'danger' part of the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, please. It is a very serious process that we are doing today. A little quiet, listen to the speaker, and then we have the opportunity to vote. Please. Go on, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u14	I shall therefore mention to you the part of the speech, which is recorded here, which shows that I am inciting to crimes and racist violence, incitement to violence. So listen, what I am saying in this speech, which is telephone - on 21 March 2015, is the event - and it is a day after I was released the first time and I was under house arrest. And that speech is given by phone. Democrat. And I say, "Today we are there..." - meaning at the event - "...to make an event that speaks of what must happen, that is, the fact that all illegal immigrants must leave our country. They'll leave with legal means and the way they have to. The present state and the state of affairs today regard this as something absurd, as something that must not happen. Golden Dawn will continue to fight in legal ways, with legal means and we want, yes, all illegal immigrants to leave our country." This does not, of course, mean that we want to kill or that we want to hurt anyone. We want the legal ways - in the legal ways, I repeat - to win, through the elections that are taking place, the right to implement the laws and to leave all of them and go to their home countries." This, ladies and gentlemen, is the evidence of the crime that sends me to apologize to Greek justice. How I'm interested in going to apologize. I will find my point and we all know that, but this is a reproach and shame for all of you. You all apply - I repeat - a thought police. When you do not like to throw us out of the Chamber, where you have no such right, and of course that would not happen. To repeat, once again, to everyone here that you have no right to get any of us out of the Chamber. The Greek people will get us out of the Chamber when they want to. When the Greek people do not vote for us, we will not be in this Chamber. But as long as God has us well and our Greek fellow citizens are voting for us, we will be here to defend their fairness. Let me stress something to Marx's orphans, who are here and think they can do whatever they want, this Chamber is neither their fist nor their palace. It is the Greek Parliament here, you want or you do not want, with the Golden Dawn in it, the laws will be observed. Because the laws had learned not to be complied with or to be respected as far as we were concerned, because that was the procedure. Also, to repeat that in here, because signs and monsters have occurred, we have come - so we have been voted on by the Greek people - not to rejoice, we have not come here to smile, but we have come to try and get the voice of the Greek citizen. And because we, you know, have a bad thing, we say things by their name and because the thief we call him a thief, because I deceived him as a crook, and because the crook we call him a crook, that's why there's all these persecutions that happen. It is our honour and we will continue to fight for the Greek citizen. We're not gonna be afraid. I repeat again that within three days we witnessed signs and monsters that happened in here. You wanted to get us out of the Chamber in illegal ways - which is not to be done or done - and you want to stop us from saying our opinion. It is our view, which expresses us, that is our view, which has brought us to the Greek Parliament and we are not going to fear anyone. So that the lifting of immunity should take place, but I repeat, so that the Greek people can hear it - not you, but above all the Greek people - that we have now reached the point with the Left of persecuting ideas, political speeches, fame and newspapers. That's the downfall!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the second case concerning Mr Christo Kella. Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. This case is funny. It's a micro-tracking at a crossroads. I called the Truck. I made a statement, it was an insurance car with mixed insurance. Compensation to the lawmaker was 850 euros. I'm telling you, to understand the size of the crash. It was a bit at the door. Then, after months, he found a lawyer who told him "he's a MP to take him". He told me that myself, I'm not saying it. They asked at the beginning 10,000, then 5,000, and then were treated, saying that the kid who had been in there was wearing bracelets in the teeth that were damaged. He brought a certificate from the dentist and he owns a piece of paper from the hospital that went because he was hurting right, but he left on his own. I don't have anything else. In fact, I was taken months later by a journalist from an Athenian site - I don't remember who - and he asked me if I was the MP, Mr. Kelles. I said yes. He said to me, "so you had a car accident and abandoned it invoking immunity". I said to him, "Excuse me very much, but I also have the Trojan paper, which was called on the spot, and he himself has signed that there are no physical damages". There's nothing else to tell you, that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u17	What do you want? Should the immunity be lifted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u18	What do I want? Sure, yeah. But he won't even go to court. I ask her personally, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u19	In our committee Mr Kellas has asked for immunity to be waived. The decision was taken unanimously in favour of the waiver of immunity. We shall now proceed to the third case concerning Mr Anastasio Pratssol. Mr Pratsol, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, during my mayor's term of office I had commissioned tasks for the legal person of the National Stadium and for the Youth and Sports Agency to some municipal councillor. After complaints by many about the partial disposal of these sports facilities and expenditure, which had been made without prior decisions by the competent bodies, I asked for control of all these things and after they had been found, I exempted this municipal council from its duties. After that, its independence from the combination followed and its sue for slandering followed. That is why I also asked for my immunity to be waived in the committee responsible. It is a very clear matter, which I do not feel is a accused person, and I believe it has to do with the exercise of my political and municipal duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Pratsol. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-three students and students and two educational sessions from the 2nd Rafina Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Thursday 12 May 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The timely question by MP Pellis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Sifakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about the compensation of farmers for reduced production in almost all tree crops of Pella and Imathia. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of National Defence on the "Greek Defence Systems". 3. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the inclusion of the Department of Digital Systems of the University of Piraeus in the 2nd Scientific Field (EP) - Scientific Field of Positive and Technological Sciences. 4. The Question No 841/9-5-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the delay in the adoption of a joint Ministerial Decision, in accordance with paragraph 11 of Article 42 of Law 4280/2014 (VAT 1559A), thus causing serious problems for farmers who have the use of brown parcels or for those who wish to exercise the relevant right. 5. The question by No. 836/4-5-2016 of the Greek Parliamentary I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the problems and prospects of the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO). B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 840/9-5-2016 by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the non-preferential submission of a professionally responsible statement of status for the agricultural photovoltaics. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 838/6-5-2016 of the Greek Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Constantine Hatzidakis, about the living conditions of refugees - migrants in Greece. 3. The Question No 842-9-5-2016 by Congressman Pireias of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the VW car scandal. 4. The Question No 819/25-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on late single applications for aid from farmers for the year 2015, the incorrect digitisation of agricultural parcels of growers integrated into agri-environment programmes and the problems created by the technical solution given in 2014 for the distribution of public eligible areas of pasture, the responsibility of the OPECE. 5. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food and Finance on measures to compensate farmers and restore crops and infrastructure from the fire caused by 21-4-2016 in the areas of the East and Myrtos of the Municipality of Ierapetra. Lassithi Crete. 6. The Question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the irregular reductions in aid, the necessary extension of the deadline for the submission of the single aid application for 2016 and the right to submit objections to final rights. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 813/21-04-2016 by MP, Mr Spyridonos, Mr Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the Ministry's 'interference in the selection tenders of 100 doctors and 400 nurses'. 8. The timely question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Constantine Steerios to the Minister of Health about the need to prevent, treat and support the Volos cancer patients. 9. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davaki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the restoration of the old Sparta Court for the housing of the General Archives of the State of Laconia. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, regarding the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its reports to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part, with its integral Annexes 1 to 4, Appendices, Protocols, Notes and EU Monomer Declaration. on Article 96 of the Agreement’. B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Comprehensive Agreement - Framework for Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, with the declarations made therein’. Ladies and gentlemen, the roll-call vote will take place here. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Any colleague who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity will write next to the Member whose name is called upon to waive the word 'NAI'. In other words, it says "HAI" to the prosecutor's request and calls for the waiver of immunity. Any colleague who votes against the waiver of immunity will write next to the Member whose name is called upon to waive the word 'OH'. Any colleague who refuses to vote shall write next to the Member whose name is called upon to waive immunity the word 'PARON'. You have been distributed and white notes. It will also be on the list of Members who have their name, their constituency and the parliamentary group to which they belong, and who will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Subsequently, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to colleagues, Mr. Ioannis Theophile by SYRIZA and Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote, the votes will be counted by my fellow Members, as they will be taken from the ballots, which will be recorded together with the protocol of vote in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u22	The House unanimously agreed. I would also like to inform you that letters and fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Before moving on to the roll-call procedure, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fourteen students and students from the International Centre for Greek and Mediterranean Studies (DIKEMES). The House welcomes them. Dear students and students, we are discussing the waiver of immunity of MPs and we are in the voting process. Parliamentary Members Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy are on the list. The positions have already been taken. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u23	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my fellow Member, Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, will not be present in today's roll-call vote and he knows by letter that if he were present he would vote according to the opinion of the Committee on Ethics of Parliament. The Member's letter is an intent to vote and is not counted on the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and the vote is requested to take place on counting the votes and extracting the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the result of the roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members. A total of 171 Members voted. On the case of colleagues, Mr Constantine Barbarousi, Ilia Panayotarou and Ioannis Ragos in favour of the lifting of immunity, i.e. "NAI", they voted 160 MPs. Against the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 8 MPs voted. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. They voted 'WHITE' 2 Members. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[change page]] [[To enter pages 40 a and 40 b]] On the case of Mr Christos Kelles in favour of waiving immunity, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 142 Members. On the question of immunity, 24 Members voted against it, i.e. 'NOVO'. They voted for 3 MPs. They voted 'WHITE' 2 Members. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted. On the case of Mr Anastasios Pratsoli in favour of the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 113 MPs. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 53 MPs voted. They voted for 2 MPs. They voted 'WHITE' 3 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u27	MEP Mr Theodoros Fortsakis, due to a sudden family problem, needs to go to Crete for one day and asks us to grant him permission to be absent on Wednesday 11 May 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u28	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-six students and schoolchildren and five teachers from the 2nd Municipal School of Theaters of Itonakarnania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform the students and students that they have come to the end of a procedure concerning the waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. What's that supposed to mean? He will say that when a Member of Parliament is accused of an act and is going to go to court, to go to court, Parliament must give him permission. In other cases, the House grants permission, not others. It is a privilege given by the state and by the Constitution to the Members, in order to protect them from some who want to use the court to prosecute them with a political persecution related to their parliamentary activities, that is to say, to be more independent and free to carry out their parliamentary duties. This leave, I repeat, is given only for offences relating to their parliamentary activity. Today we have voted for the prosecution's request that this right be lifted, that is to say that the immunity should be waived. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-11-S1-commons.u29	With the consent of the House at 13.44 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, May 12, 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the proceedings of the House: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
