ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the current Questions of Monday 16 May 2016, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 851/10-5-2016, a topical question by MP II, New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, Minister for Finance, concerning the change of attitude of the Greek Government to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 853/10-5-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks concerning the auctioning of the new airport in Kastelli Crete. 3. The Question No 854/10-5-2016 by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food on the payment of compensation to the farmers of the Larissa Prefecture for their production destroyed by a recent glacier. 4. The 850/10-5-2016 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy regarding the illegal chartering of vessels. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 852/10-5-2016 by MP Halkidiki of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vayonas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the "flying fallen of the land of the 1940s and the current immoral demand of the Albanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 855/10-5-2016 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance about the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO S.A.).). 3. The question asked by MP II of New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the "delay in the implementation of development reforms - a list of Stathaki". 4. The question of the financing of the 2007-2013 NSRF projects, by number 811/19-4-2016, was answered by Mr Annas - Michel Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism. 5. The question by No 798/18-4-2016 of the President of Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning non-performing loans. 6. The Question No 841/9-5-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the delay in the adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision, in accordance with the provisions of the paragraph. 11 of Article 42 of Law 4280/2014 (VAT 1559A), thus causing serious problems for farmers who have the use of brown parcels or for those wishing to exercise the relevant right. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 848/10-5-2016 by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the preparation of the forest fire risk. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 37844/267/8-32016 by MP B' Athens, George Amyras, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the government's delay in the promotion of actions and the development of broadband by depriving 1.5% of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 844/9-5-2016 of the New Democracy MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the availability of five credits required to recruit a minimum number of permanent educational staff in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the Department. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the Drama of lasting isolation and blockades is preparing to accept another serious blow. Despite your Ministry's positive initiative to allocate five hundred credits for the recruitment of scientific staff to AEI and TEI, unfortunately, the TEI of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace from the distribution of eleven positions which it is informed that it intends to make available only one place for the Oenology and Drinks Department, a department that stands up to self-depression and intensive scientific effort of the minimum exceptional staff, offering high-level knowledge and experience, which is very positive for both students and society. In particular, despite the fact that it is a part directly linked to production, with full absorption from the graduates' market, with ever-increasing international cooperation and with a prospect of enthusiasticness, the minimum five positions of the educational staff in need of this need are at risk of not being covered because of the wrong decisions of the management bodies. While this number of permanent staff fully meets the needs of the department, the dynamics and the course to be developed and offered, its efficiency and recently its evaluation require priority in terms of making the necessary appropriations available for this, if you like, the need for the place and the country to deal with unemployment. This obvious anguish of all Draminas, regardless of party or other positions, sends a message to you, Minister, so that this anguish can find a positive response. You ask, Minister: what measures and initiatives will the Ministry of Education take to provide the Oenology Department with the necessary five appropriations to recruit the minimum number of permanent staff required for the smooth operation and how will this be ensured? What is your Ministry's plans for this section regarding its development? Will there be funds for strengthening and operating his workshops for you? Thank you, Mr President and Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. They always give me the opportunity to mention and say to myself the situation in which the institutions are found after six years of political austerity, undermining and reduced budgets. You know - you said it too - that we made a huge effort this year after six years to serve the foundations. Five hundred positions are not much for the world that has left the institutions, but they are a start, much more than they will follow five hundred other positions. As far as this TEI in Eastern Macedonia and Thrace is concerned, I would like to say that eleven positions have been allocated to it. The rationale behind the distribution of these five hundred posts was not to solve the problems - because it is impossible - but at least to start reducing this subscribing and not to leave any staffless department without permanent teachers. The problem is - and you know it, Mr Kyriazidis - that the intervention of the Ministry is to a certain extent. It is to distribute the positions and from there on, it cannot impose on any institution where the positions will go and where the institutions will not go. You also know very well that, if I make the slightest speech, not you personally, but your party, the newspapers that are about you, the media, will start shouting about party domination or a Soviet-type state. However, for some time now, I have called the presidents of the TEIs and the President in question, and we have had a good debate about the need to strengthen the departments that have no staff at all. The conversation was fruitful. He told me that's what he'd do. But I have not been able to say that you will give this section so many positions. At the same time, there is another part of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, without any educated permanent staff and it is the Dumotich Nursing, which is isolated. The appeal I made to both university staff and TEI presidents was to give weight to those parts that are completely subordinated or do not have any permanent staff. I want to assure you and to assure the TEI for one thing. You know the irrationalism that has existed - I am one of those who do not want me to make a paradox, even though historical - but it is not possible since 2009, which we were not in crisis, that these departments never have a permanent staff. So what we will try to do with the next five hundred positions is to give particular weight, but to the point of reaching the foundation. I know about the Oenology Department, I know it's a very good department, and it's directly linked to production in the area, in Drama. It would be unfair that department would tend to collapse. That is why I am appealing from here - because that is all I can do - that the section is strengthened, just like the Dumos and tell you - because the MPs need to know about all of Greece, not just for our region - that we have 12 such departments at the TEIs throughout the country, which have no staff at all. Then I'll tell you a little bit about the labs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u6	Mr Minister, thank you for the research you have done, because I am aware of that as well. However, we should note here, because they are watching us, but they will also know what has been discussed, that the TEIs, like the other institutions, are being strengthened by the state budget. I do not understand why there may be this disequilibrium in terms of management. I'm telling you, that's where I'm tracking the problem. We have two segments of winemaking throughout Greece. It cannot in Drama, at a place of production, which advertises, both inside and outside of the country, this product and thus our country, can be subordinated to the Department. When you also asked, it was second, although it has no staff, although it has come in cooperation with foreign universities, such as Toulouse, which is the fifth best university in the world, and it is not possible for these departments to have the possibility of supporting staff, even for postgraduate students, because the Balkan countries next to them want and want to have such a presence. All graduates find work immediately, reinforce the best wineries in the country, which belong to Drama. At the same time, for the analyses it is compulsory for the wineries throughout this region to be analysed in Thessaloniki and the costs to be increased. Here we are, then, other issues that arise in terms of growth, since we are precisely on this issue. On the other hand, frankly, 800,000 euros - about 1 million - were driven to workshops, not to this particular section but elsewhere. You understand that this is where we start and enter another function. It is said in Drama that they obviously want to close this section for some reasons. So I'd beg your own intervention. Besides, there is also the letter from the students, which you may have taken, but I will testify to it, to see the agony of these people, because it is one of the only schools that still find work, and I believe that this way and the local production are strengthening, but they themselves are guaranteed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want to believe today's conversation with the TEI administration will send a message. Personally, I'm not really going to leave it. I do not make any periphery, but it is not possible that a section, which provides so much for our country and for our country, should receive this treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Kyriazidis, you know very well, you said that the foundations have their own property. The state can intervene, I told you before, to a certain extent. We have also given temporary staff twenty-seven and two or three posts - I do not remember exactly now - temporary training staff under a contract of employment. In other words, the TEI of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace have been given not too much, not to be considered as saying things, which are irresponsible. However, I would also like to make an appeal from this House to all the institutions. Even if rationally worked in some cases in the past, even if it closed or opened sections irrationally, institutions cannot be closed down to weaken parts of themselves without having contacted the Ministry at all, without the Ministry having any such intention. We have no intention of doing so, and I am constantly dealing with this problem, arbitraryly at the expense of students and students, operating in a way of weakening these departments, which exposes the state, because it has made these departments well or badly, for me in many cases, to say the right thing. The institutions can't come. I have the case of Agrinio, where the divisions were dissociated to the point of weakening. The teachers, who were elected for Agrinio, were moved, and I now have with the students to solve a problem, while the institutions themselves rely on academic grounds. I respect them for academic reasons and institutions must ultimately decide, but once they have accepted, when these departments have been established, they cannot now weaken them in one way or another. I barely have to strengthen the departments most in need for me. I call for this in this Chamber too, because it is a matter of respect for both the state and institutions for students and students. I will, however, appeal again, I cannot speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos. At this point I will announce the questions that will not be answered for different reasons: The first under No 848/10-5-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Akaterini Igleze to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the preparation for the response to the risks of forest fires, is not being discussed due to Mr. Tsironi's misguided obligations. The second under number 843/9-5-2016 topical question by MP Kavala of New Democracy, Nicholas Panagiotopoulos, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, regarding the payment of the funding of school committees for the payment of school cleaners is not being discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Minister of Education Mr. Friend. The second under number 846/9-5-2016 topical question by the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Health, regarding the immediate treatment of the issue of the on-site child in Argolida, is not discussed due to a workload of Minister Polakis. The fourth under number 825/254-2016 topical question of the second Piraeus Parliamentary 2nd cycle of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health, concerning the residual function of the Anticancer Hospital of Metaxas, is not discussed for the same reason. The seventh under number 799/19-4-2016 topical question of the second question of the Halkidiki MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Health about the needs of the Artificial Leaf Unit of the General Hospital of Halkidiki is not discussed for the same reason. The eighth Question No 708/28-3-2016 by Mr Christos Stakouras, Deputy Minister of Health, on the problem of the General Hospital of Lamia is not discussed by the Deputy Minister of Health for the same reason. The sixth question under number 829/25/42016 from the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the old EUR 90 million debt on urban buses, due to the previous administrations, is not discussed due to an unreserved obligation by Mr. Spirtzis. The fifth question under number 826/254-2016 of the second cycle of the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance on the timetable for repayment of late public debts is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister abroad. The fourth, under No. 849/10-5-2016, is a topical question of the first cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, regarding the designation of the area Afontos Rhodes as an archaeological zone, not discussed after consultation of the questioning Member with the relevant Minister. The time taken for these questions to be answered will be redefined. The second question will then be discussed under number 847/9-5-2016 of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the granting of real estate Zone A2 of the Olympic Pole Faliros. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr President, we are going to have a debate in the National Representation today which we did not have a few days ago on a fine Friday night, where an amendment, Mr President, on the 'valuation' of the coastline, on other uses than those we had dreamed of, and in particular on areas where trials will be conducted with a large number of indictees, witnesses and so on. That evening, of course, the Minister did not come and let the Minister of Education defend the matter. But what issue? The issue of an amendment - smuggling signed by sixteen Members, of which only one lady is an Attica MEP. The other Members are from the region. Sixteen SYRIZA MPs, of whom only one case from Attica, sign an amendment by drafting and introductory statement and a provision, obviously coming from a Ministry, for anyone who knows and sees the beach houses in front of the great donation of the institution "Stavros Niarchos" and next to sports facilities will be granted for twenty years at the Ministry of Justice. We in the Democratic Alliance understood it immediately. We understood the move: the Minister had MPs do him a favor. We say to the Minister of Education "take this back, because you obviously have not been in touch with local government". I contacted Mr. Moralis, with Mr. Euthymios, with Hatzidakis, with Mr. Karnavos in Kallithea, and asked them: 'Do you have any idea of this?' The answer from everyone, Mr President, was that they are surprised and even crossed across. After the outcry, the government stated that it was thinking differently. However, despite the fact that yesterday in ratification of two international treaties, the peculiar procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure came in three amendments and Parliament's agenda changed and this amendment of'repentance' was not here. I am therefore taking the floor for two reasons: the first cause is that this debate should be held in the House of the minister present who organised a completely wrong move. Secondly, the promise to change the door has remained in words and has not been implemented. And if anyone asks, "But there was a ministerial conference and they said it would be done. The answer is 'yes, if I don't see it, I don't believe it'. Because of this government, but we are listening and more is done in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to answer my reply to melodramatic expressions, I am not going to talk about burial dreams, nor am I going to deal with press conspiracy theories'results from the text that the Minister organized all of this and was behind them, etc.'. I would like to reply very clearly to you: For the Ministry of Justice the need to find a building for trials in Athens, Piraeus, in the wider area of Lecanopedi is top. This is not only due to the fact that we have very long delays in conducting trials in large part due to the lack of rooms, but also to the fact that delays in conducting the trials entail a concentration of prisoners on the same site, which is totally problematic. Therefore, the need to conduct at a speed of trials and therefore to find space and buildings for conducting the proceedings, the Ministry of Justice considers it topical. It is considered top priority not only for the needs of justice, but also for the needs of development, because in addition to the development needs of any region, the general needs for the country depend also on the rapid and orderly functioning of justice. We cannot have growth in our country, if the courts fail, and this is an obvious finding at the very time when we are trying to make progress and development initiatives. Despite the fact that I consider the need to find a building to be the top, I had no reason to retreat directly, I was just informed that there was another building available for the same purpose. I have been informed by Mr Kammenos and there is no obsession with the Ministry of Justice in a specific building. If there was only one, we would insist, but because there are obviously more, I will also be visiting and inspecting the areas proposed by Mr Kammens, and as quickly as possible we will also proceed to the legislative initiative that will ratify the issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Paraskevi. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u14	The first reason, Mr President, for bringing this issue here, has already been mentioned. It is a debate that has not taken place, that has got drunk, and that has made it difficult for colleagues to do so. At the same time, after that discussion, the Minister, Mr Paraparapulos, came in when he made statements after the government retreat to say that he regrets that in all the capitals of Europe, the world, the buildings of justice devour city centres, there is another perception here. This was on their behalf unnecessarily, but also misguided, because no one said otherwise. In Athens, for which we are discussing, in Attica, the buildings where justice is attributed are jewellery buildings: the Council of State, the Minister of Justice, the buildings of the Hope School. And never forget the relentless MacGakis for what she did, which she carried from the ruins where justice, her place of awarding her to the School of Hope. Don't ever forget about this very great man. And here, then, it is also the Greeks who respect justice and it is also known to them, because every day they experience it that its award has problems of effectiveness, a major issue of which is the time, the swiftness of the administration of justice. All this is data and I hope there will be measures to improve the negative situations today. However, this and another five million people dream living upwards for decades instead of taking advantage of the coastal front, elsewhere, were destroying it, elsewhere looking inside. In this Chamber, Minister, there has been a great deal of discussion about this and, finally, we have come up with this part of the coastline not only for low-purpose activities, mainly development and recreational activities. And you say, even here, that if there was no room, would you insist? It would have reacted to five million people. It is, in fact, your policy, the most comprehensive government policy. Aren't you the ones Revieres? Favelas and garbage sites, as you have so far put your hand in the Greek. Aren't you the ones Revieres? Favelas and garbage, you and me. This and you had an election opinion about what should have been done in Greek, reacting to the investment, which you referred to for 2019 and put it now, using the space for immigration - refugee, but also as an unbearable endless dump. That is not the case, Minister. It's not like that. Five million people think otherwise, and you have to look at things, because balancing down is a miserable method and ask, you who would insist, to go and ask the hundreds of thousands of people who live in this area how they listen to your views. To make this long story a small one, quickly bring the provision of the revocation, at least, of the amendment and discuss with the Minister of National Defence what the building is appropriate, inspect it, do it and proceed with your responsibility and work. But I say again to you to bring the abrogation amendment and, secondly, to change your mind. No one in this Chamber touched on the issues of the administration of justice and the areas that must with their style and their potential to decorate the administration of justice. No one raised such a matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the contrary - and I have closed, Mr President - you have not respected what the great majority of the Greek people respects and, secondly, let me close - do not deny the parliamentary smuggling, because if you had your own amendment, you would come here to defend it and listen to the House. You have put sixteen Members of Parliament, one of whom from Athens, from Attica and fifteen from the region, which is justified by people making a mistake, to do what you wanted, but you did not dare.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u15	Please, Mr. Loverdo, you're finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, there is neither the Minister nor the argument, let us say, that he does not know Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u17	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u18	The attack on these tactics is based on the falsification and the garbage has been carried out by your compatriot and excellent intellectuals yesterday, Sakis Mumtzis. The whole of Greece reacted to what you did. There is therefore no justification for locality either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I also said in my first place that it is very difficult for me to respond to melodramas, as well as to formalities, which create synergies between the functioning of justice, garbage, favelas and so on. Nevertheless, I am just returning to repeat that the matter is closed, because the Ministry of Justice, which has not organized, or put Members, has publicly accepted that this building will not be used, but the building, which is offered by the Ministry of National Defence and the use of the building offered by the Minister of National Defence, Mr Kammenos, will be used at the appropriate speed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Paraskevi. Next, the third question under number 8331/26-2016, on the second question of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence, on the problems of the area hosting refugees and migrants in Scaramaga. The Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction will respond, Mr. Muzalas. Please, Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns the Centre for Refugees in Scaramaga. Of course, the question could be widened and we could also discuss all the centres and their problems and shortcomings. However, the main issue is to overthrow the decisions that capture refugees and migrants in Greece and to facilitate their safe movement in their final destination countries. As you know, the JRC urgently raises this issue to the people and invites him to fight for it. For as long as they are temporarily hosted in Greece, human and decent conditions of residence must be ensured. Minister, since 11 April, the Centre for Refugee Refugees started in Scaramaga today, the figure is more than two thousand eighty-eighty-eighty-six people. In the question, we write about a thousand people, because they were submitted at an early stage. The problems are very serious, Minister. First of all, there are no interpreters for the elementary communication of refugees with the staff who are there, with doctors and anyone else who provides services. In the hospital there are shortcomings. Of course, the Red Cross has gone and is there, but the structures of the Ministry of Health do not have such a service that is in the Scaramaga area and provide what must be done to children, women, men and generally to the refugees in the region. The site is located in an area that is exposed to weather without any point of shadow, as you know very well, Minister. Also, the issue of transport to another city that will have a market is very important. And that is very difficult to do, because there are no buses that can carry refugees - free of charge, we say - to meet these needs. We are asking you, Minister, what you will do to ensure that the health conditions of the refugees are actually ensured in the area, and that they are fed free of charge, without involving NGOs. I shall say, of course, in my dentistry what is going on in this matter. Things are very difficult and they need immediate intervention from the Ministry. What are you going to do about all the rest of the questions, so that as long as Greece lives these people remember it as a hostile country, which took all the measures to deal with decent living conditions, without many problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Katsota.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u25	Catapult, Minister. Pausanias Katatas was an old Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u26	So forgive me. The timely question you are asking is a question that will be repeated in the next period. We are in this situation with some sixty thousand or fifty-five people trapped in our country after the closure of the borders and this is an acute situation. I would like to say to you, in order to have a comparison, that sixty thousand people in Greece have gone to Germany in one month, with the proportions of population, territory and economy. We are trying to save the dignity of the country and the dignity of these unhappy people. In this context, Scaramagas operates. You would be right - because we have to compare the situation - if you compared Scaramaga to how it should be a centre of this kind, but in the vacuum. Right now, Scaramagas is a good center. We have worse, Mr Papoutsis, and we try very hard every day to do better. Scaramagas took place to solve the problem of Piraeus and the Greek and another such centre will be built, not Scaramaga. Scaramagas meets the basic requirements under international regulations. That does not mean that you are not right and that it must not be made much better. He has houses, he does have three thousand people, he has medicine, he has doctors from the navy, he has doctors from the Red Cross, he has a free feeding provided by the state, by the army. It may not have a huge transport network, but it has easy access to the transport network. There are other centres where many of these things are missing. I assure you that our effort is to meet these needs more and more. But when one makes a criticism - legitimate as yours - on these things, one must always take into account the short time in which we must respond and the large number that we need to satisfy. Let me tell you about the NGOs. We'll give the NGOs a role. The money that the NGOs have received for our country must be properly exploited. I therefore think that the next timely questions that will be asked on this matter should not concern whether NGOs will be involved or not. That's what's gonna happen. They have taken about 100 million euros for our country. But there should rightly be a constant time-consuming question for Parliament, so that we too can act more on control, on whether this money is going where a party has to go or is going between them. Mr Colleagues, I do not question the good intention of your timely question. It is clear from the wording. But you have, especially you of the Communist Party of Greece, scientific tools with which you do your analyses. If you look at history, you will see that always - but always! - in these kinds of crises, the initial faces are much worse than what we're trying to do. I would like to say to you that I believe that by mid-June the first temporary establishment of the refugee - immigration population will have been arranged under relatively decent conditions. The second plan is, after taking the form of chaos - as I told you - to see how these conditions will be defined and better done so that those who are entitled to leave, those who are to stay, stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u28	Minister, of course Scaramagas is not like the Greek or other regions. We believe, however, that there can be intervention to improve the living conditions of these frustrated people. The issue of NGOs you have said is very serious. In Scaramaga - as we know - they didn't exist at first. Now, however, there are several NGOs operating. It's a Norwegian, a Dutch, an American, a Swiss, some other Greek have done. It is not that they manage refugees' needs. Already members discuss them with them, create them - if you like - the feeling that they will leave tomorrow. Some people are about to leave the next day. They take money from the refugees to fly to Italy. Such a situation arises within refugees and an overall tension within this area by such people that surround the Host Center, strange people who promise them various things. So they create this problem. There are serious problems with cleanliness, Minister. You know very well that Scaramagas is now a refugee city. The Municipality of Haidario, for example, has no staff, does not have machinery, so that it can meet this cleanliness task, which is very important for the Centre. The state, the Ministry of Interior, has so far not beennd to assist the municipalities in the region in order to respond to this task, to enable them, in other words, to recruit staff. How's cleanliness going to be? He has to give them machinery, cars and so on. How else will it be? How will they respond? These problems cannot be taken into account by the state, the government and the relevant ministries. I'm not talking to you. They don't pass through you. The question is also addressed to the Ministry of Interior, which is responsible for funding the municipalities and dealing with such problems, which are very important in order to ensure that these people are healthy. Also, Minister, you say that next time you will ensure decent living conditions for refugees. Refugees, however, do not want to stay here, Minister. As long as they see such infrastructure more permanently, the excitement, because they think they will be trapped here for a long time, for many years, and they are enduring efforts, as in Chios the other day, that some have swimped to leave for Turkey, not to go to such structures as they will be in custody, I don't know how long. So the issue of the European Union and decisions is very important. The closure of borders, the agreement with Turkey, are issues which in any case play an important role in the psychology of these people, in their prospect, in what they will do, where they will go, where they will live in the next few years. It's very important to them. So we say that the government must not compromise. If he compromises, it is like taking part in this caging of refugees here in our country, with what this means to them, but also to the inhabitants of our country who are facing these problems, which, if you like, are caused by the refugees in Idomenos either in Greek or in all the other centres that exist in Greece. We believe that these are the main issues. We think that the government should see all aspects of the question of residence. There is, for example, the issue of sewing for mosquitoes, which is very important, so that diseases are not spread. Also, the issues of child feeding. Refugees say children have never eaten hot food. How can this issue be dealt with? Should it not be treated in a particular way? They are issues on which the refugees take initiatives and self-organise themselves. There is also the question of children's education. There's not a single book. They ask for books, bills, and so forth. Okay, solidarity. I think, however, that measures should also be taken by the state itself to help self-organise the refugees so that this time here is not a'short time', but a real time for refugees to be helped in their self-organisation and in meeting very important needs. The question of child education is very important for refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr Kathotis. I would remind you that Democrat said: "He sees money and without them, there is nothing here. "
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u30	Money's a lot. NGOs have been given 100 million that could meet many needs. But you said that it can't be done. Through the center of the Ministry of Immigration, all this has to go through.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 107th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I should like to say that in the constructive remarks made by the representative of the Communist Party of Greece, he would be foolish who had the slightest objection. The only thing I can assure you about is that this is our attempt. And you are able to know that it is very difficult to reach these things in such a short time, at a good level. However, yes, all that you have said must be taken into account. I would like to tell you that the issue of education is the first time that this House has been affected and you are quite right. We have already set up a committee with the Ministry of Education, where we are trying to see what a unified programme we will be able to shape for these employment and employment structures of children, then those who are at school now. I have nothing to tell you now, except that we have it in mind. I hope that in the next few months we will resolve this. Let me tell you something, even though we are very few in here. The communist space has fallen for so many years as a victim of false and prefabricated images against it. In other words, something was made in the Soviet Union to break through the Soviet Union. He was making something there, playing all the news and stuff. You know, you've lived through them. Don't pay too much attention. In a scientific way you operate in the image. No one can go swimming in Turkey. A picture was made. It was TV. You understand that. It was, to say, a form of protest. No one thought it was going there. It was either symbolizing or provoking. I'll tell you how the images are being set up... [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the Minister]] Mr President, I would perhaps like a little more time, but it is interesting and I call for it to be transferred everywhere. There is an announcement on the Internet from ERCC that in the Greek thousand people are on a hunger strike and there is a gastroenteritis epidemic. I run like a lunatic to find out what's going on. I have thirty cases of gastroenteritis with special nutrition to three thousand people. I'm a doctor, that's not an epidemic. No one's doing a hunger strike. I call the journalists and they see it. On the same day the big newspapers abroad wrote, "hunger in the Greek, epidemics are plagued by Greece". I would like to tell you that we must be very careful in assessing some things. Your space and space on the Left has fallen too many times a victim of such steadfast things. This does not make up for the problems. We agree. There's no point in trying to convince you. Your remarks are correct. We're trying to do this, Mr. Congressman. How much we will do, where we will make it, we will see because it is the money and the difficulties we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Muzala.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I would like to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u35	Mr Katsotis, there's no tritology allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u36	For thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u37	Mr Katsotis, you will discuss them. The Rules of Procedure do not allow for any tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u38	Minister, however, we do not make such announcements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u39	I would like to inform the children that the process you are monitoring is parliamentary scrutiny, so you do not see many Members in the Chamber. Members come here and ask the ministers about specific matters and get answers. If we have three Members in love, there will be three Members present. If they're thirteen Members in love, they'll be thirteen. The procedure is called parliamentary scrutiny. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-13-S1-commons.u40	With the consent of the House at 10.56 a meeting on Monday, May 16, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) a topical question debate and (b) a debate on Question No 23/17/22-3-2016.
