ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's approval from 11/10 2016, the minutes of the OB's proceedings, Thursday 11 February 2016, with regard to the resolution as a whole of the draft law: ‘Consolidation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on international passenger and freight transport and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law: ‘Signature: a) of the Act of Legislative Content of 24.12.2015 ‘Consolidation of urgent matters of the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Indigenous Policy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Rural Development and Food and Finance’ (A'182) and (b) of the Act of 20.12.2015 of the Legislative Content of the "Adjustment of Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Finance, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Migration Policy, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, National Defence, Health and Economic Affairs, Development and WORK’. (A'184)’ and other provisions’. I would remind you that they have left to speak with seven fellow Members, they have spoken with three parliamentary representatives, so there are five other parliamentary representatives to speak and I think they are three ministers. I would suggest that we start with fellow Members and then we go with a Minister - a parliamentary representative. At the same time, because the draft law has been debated a great deal because most people have spoken, I would remind you that there are two amendments, one from Mr Stathakis, which I think is not going to have a problem with the amendment on the Music House. Members of Parliament too, because time will be short, if they want to be able to put themselves on the table, but the Members of Parliament other than the ANALYs vote will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u3	Don't rush, Mr. Kutsuko. You must help today, because you have your topical question and we must finish quickly. So instead of raising your hands you have to help.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u4	Hands off!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u5	Okay. Well, let's know upstairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u6	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u7	Yes, Mr. Stopatis, I understand. Otherwise, after completing the debate for two, three minutes, the rapporteurs can take the floor on the amendment to make their place and clear the scene. So we start where we stopped. First speaker is Mr. Marios Antoniou. Here, Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I beg your pardon, but if you have any kindness, I have asked you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u9	I thought you were satisfied with the answer I gave you. Tell me, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u10	Excuse me for a second. We agreed with your presidency yesterday that since the amendments are not withdrawn - because this seemed at first - you will give us the floor as rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u11	Didn't you hear? What I said about Mr. Stamatis is true to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u12	I heard. Do you know what my point of order is? Because we have now entered the second round of the debate, so that Members can have a picture, that we can make our position a few minutes and that the debate can proceed smoothly afterwards. That is my point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u13	Others are already in place. Because you haven't been placed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u14	Neither I nor Mr Stamatis nor the majority member have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u15	Okay. You now say I give you the floor first. But first the seven Members will finish and then before we enter the ministers and the Members of Parliament, I will ask the rapporteurs who wants to sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u17	Here you go, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I have made a request to the Chair on the amendment to the Music House. When you're judging, you'll give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u19	Yes, of course. In any case, you have not spoken, and so in your position, which will be several minutes, you will also place on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u20	Yeah, I haven't talked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u21	Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, starting today the sitting that was suspended in plenary yesterday on the bill of the Ministry of Finance, with which the 24-12-2015 and 30-12-2015 legislation in force are being ratified and implemented, I would like to refer to the second of them, in particular Article 4 thereof. Article 4 concerns research centres and institutes supervised by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs and their staff. Article 4 provides that the six-month period laid down in Article 47(1) of the Treaty is to be applied. 4310 is extended, says, until 31-7-2016. To complement that with previous MDGs - because we do not know how many MDGs have been made in one year - an extension has been granted until May 2015. Therefore, an extension to the extension. That's the emergency. And no excuse. Why are you extending to the completion of a work of the law? Finally, when are you going to start working there at the Ministry? I'm sure we'll soon have a new MDG, which will extend another year to implement a law. Paragraph 2 of that Article also provides for an extension of crisis procedures in paragraph 6 of Article 47 of L.4310 until 31-7-2016. The important thing, therefore, is that, in paragraph 6 of Article 47 of the then law, 2014, we allowed research centres, institutes and technological institutions to judge the existing scientific staff who had the qualifications required by the law with clearly defined criteria so that after their crisis, the above employees could take a personal place of researcher or EUE - a specialist operating scientist - according to their qualifications. Crisis proceedings with the law at the time would be completed within six months of the publication of Law No.4310. The above rules did not give rise to any additional costs to the State budget as it already concerned staff and secondly did not involve recruitment of new employees. On the contrary, it has enabled further scientific development to be made possible for existing staff and at the same time attracting funds from funded projects to the benefit of the research centres themselves and, secondly, of the country. Instead, application of these arrangements has not been made under your responsibility. This current regulation is obviously the continuation of the same paradoxical policy that you are following on this issue, as on many other issues in this government, and which - as you know - was reflected in the 81169 decision of the Secretary-General of Research and Technology, which asked - listen - for the suspension of these provisions in the light of an imminent amendment. How is it possible, Minister, for a decision by the Secretary-General to stop and freeze the implementation of a law? The law only changes. Or don't you know? But that's your logic. And while we are talking in the upper room, he says, about the national dialogue on education - I imagine for communication reasons - we are going through a legislative act here. Because in communication you don't get caught. With regard to what was heard by Minister Phile, then, that the government was drowning refugees in Pharmacy, all I can say is shame, because the house of the hanged man is not talking about rope, Minister. Because the ministers are probably not informed and obviously do not have the relevant information. You will give me one more minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u23	Time is not finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u24	So while continuing, the issue of the legislative act, I would like to say that the reference to the explanatory memorandum to this bill, that the crisis procedures have been delayed to everyone without exception, says research and technical bodies, is not in fact in line with the reality. Several research institutes in compliance with the law urged employees to submit the request, etc., in order to make their judgment and to be within the deadline of the law. However, despite the fact that the scientific staff employed have submitted the request in due course, the crisis procedure has been frozen, as you do in all things. Therefore, any delays have been made, it is a product of sole responsibility and responsibility for the government and the purposes it serves, lasting for over a year Greek researchers. And by ending, in response to Mr. Friend's position yesterday, seeking to find guilty and stimulus motivators, the unrest and the social explosion of all the actors, the farmers who soon fill up the Constitution, the free professionals, lawyers, engineers, I say that I think all of them should give you a mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. Because all my fellow Members have five minutes - all right, I will show a tolerance - you can speak from your position. Mr. Gregos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] In the shadow of what is happening both inside and outside Parliament and unfortunately of what is happening in the Aegean Sea, we should refer a little to the bill, which has some very wicked articles. We heard racist misery again yesterday by the SYRIZA ministers, as they do. Form of such a racist delirium also reminds of Articles 8, 10, 11, 12 and 18. Racism, as you all know, exists only at the expense of the Greeks, so you bring such bills every few minutes. You are bringing bills, of course, while the government is falling apart and, as I am learning in each county separately, the SYRIZA MPs may be declared unwanted by the people. On the contrary, we found ourselves next to the Greek people and because we wanted it, but mainly because the Greek people asked us to be with him. Because, as we have repeatedly said, the Golden Dawn is and will be everywhere, both in Perama and in Keratini and in Schistos and in Diavata and in Oreokastro and wherever necessary. Because the inhabitants of these regions as well as many others support with stubbornness and persistence again and again the Golden Dawn in the elections. The government's constant tactics are to support illegal immigrants, as is clearly seen in the articles of the bill. But I say that the Greek people say 'no' to the refugee centres, wherever these happen. I repeat, I say it by representing almost all the Greek people. Don't be a center anywhere on Greek territory. If they are to do so, they should do so in Turkey, where illegal immigrants come from. Finally say a "no", as Metaxas mentioned earlier, because some unscrupulous and unscrupulous even question this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u27	That's right! Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u28	For the sugar in the coffee he said "no", he wanted it straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u29	Don't start talking about who said it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u30	You can't falsify the story all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Grego, keep going. Don't answer, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u32	I am using the term'refractory immigrant' because, like you, I should also use the term 'irregular traffickers'. That's all we didn't hear. These centres will obviously operate with a five-fold number of refugees. They'll probably be permanent. And they will probably find refuge there in every form illegal and for any action they take you will be responsible, Mr Ministers. And ask for the help of that guy, Muizniks, what's his name? They may also function as training and recruitment centres for jihadists, who are of course thirsty for blood and are thirsty to invade Greece and Europe with fake papers. Approximately 25% of these people who are controlled, have fake papers. We heard about fifty thousand stay in Greece. Ten of them, as in Paris, are enough to hematize a city. Of course, there are also the NGOs, the known organisations, which should at some point be controlled by a prosecutor. We are gathering information on these non-governmental organisations and delivering them to the Greek people. And then we'll see if justice moves. With regard to NATO patrols in the Aegean, from what we heard until yesterday, there will be a Greek ship, a Turkish ship, a German and one in Canada. Greece's sovereign rights, of course, are at the 12 nautical miles. They say that the Turkish will not attempt in a Greek area and, respectively, the Greek in a Turkish area. These - I repeat - until yesterday, because everything changes in accordance with orders. They will have a mission not to relaunch nor to stop refugee vessels but to monitor traffickers. And we haven't seen what we all want so far. We want to see dead traffickers and not dead kids. Turkey, the al-Herzegovina enemy of Greece and Europe continues to threaten and blackmail using immigration. In a short time we may see the distribution of free and some coral translated into Greek. Fortunately, the Greek people and the people of Europe have taken over this threat, organized and resisted. Instead of Europe giving the jihadists money, it should cause Turkey's economic strangulation, not to say that it has the weapons to the East. The settlement of Greece and Europe by all-government dreams that Merkel, Yunger and Erdogan dreams of will find strong resistance and we will of course not leave our country in the hands of any Tsipras and Muzala. We will continue to denounce their plans. I deserve to refer to the graphical trade unionists of peasant and police. Of course they do not express the interests of the majority of their industries. And if a Balasca person’s statements are true, he has been subjected to disciplinary misconduct and criminal offence and will be controlled. It is also picturesque and tragic to hear about democracy and Constitution from New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. The first two have committed - and we have said so at previous meetings - the crime of the destruction of the Constitution and of the offense of the constitution. And to say about Mr. Constantopoulos, who referred to us yesterday, that we expect him to bring back the stolen ones. I shall conclude, Mr President. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, what it may have to do with democracy, when it governs against the interests of the Greek people, who are now aggregated to him and has to do with the ranks of the Minister, such as Mr. Paulakis, Mr. Xanthos, Mr. Mouszalas, who deceive the Greek people. Finally, twenty years ago on a similar tragic incident that was the result of organised treason by the Simitis government - which is still free of charge, no prosecution - we are mourning again the loss of three members of the Navy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u33	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u34	As former officer of the Navy, I express my deep condolences to their families. Anyone who falls into duty is a hero. Those heroes we will honor them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Skouriakos - come on, Mr. Skouriakos - Mr. Davakis, Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Tasoulas. Mrs. Vaguea, we were informed by SYRIZA, asked for it to be deleted. So because I'm watching Mr. Squash present, Mr. Tsouula present, I'm not going in turn. Notify both other colleagues. Mr. Darkness has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, a lot of talk was made yesterday by Vice-Presidents about how the government is currently legislating, in particular yesterday and today. I am talking about the legislative act. There is one answer and it is monologue: devastated, ladies and gentlemen, these have been inherited by the present government, and in a way they will have to deal with the situation. The parallel programme, which is here, which is not going to be completed, must go ahead. The vulnerable social groups should be relieved and problems solved by the long-term economic crisis. Let me speak at the moment about the legislation on the Athens Concert Hall. His story is important and his history is very great. The Athens Concert Hall divided and united both its enemies and friends. He taught in terms of his scandalous function and establishment. Construction of the building was considered an ecological scandal and caused, I remind you, mobilizations in the 1980s. Nevertheless, the building ended and began to operate under the responsibility of the Athens Concert Hall. It united the public with its representations in an environment undeniably jewelry for our country and as a non-profit organisation it was sponsored by the state and was a legal person of private law. In times of prosperity, he further pursued a costly policy of moving famous names from abroad, while degrading the indigenous potential, organizing a few of his own but always expensive, costly productions. Of course, the resources secured by the state have made it decisively easier in terms of his work. At the same time, however, they weakened financial support to a number of other bodies, such as the Athens State Orchestra, the State Theatres, the Lyric Scene or other state orchestras, etc. Why now, then, should the public take over this costly Athens Congregation of Music? The Congregation of Music, ladies and gentlemen, did not remain in its original facilities, which are undoubtedly exemplary for the place and for culture. It was expanded to a lesser extent, by concluding large and difficultly serviceable loans. His pharanonic expansion quadruple his debts anyway. The banks, however, which are not the most distinguished artisanal organizations, required the guarantee of their money. Who would have made this brave commitment? The solution was given by nine PASOK ministers, who 15 days before the 2012 elections put a loan guarantor on the Greek state. The Greek public, therefore, is being judged on this with the incredible sum of EUR 420 million. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, can we get rid of the Congregation of Music? No, this public money is going to pay anyway. What could we do? Sell it? I don't think a buyer will be found for that. Can we turn it off? Not for cultural reasons, of course, but mainly for reasons of persuasion to the very difficult. We must therefore only take care of the public. Therefore, this bill expressly provides for the full commitment of the Greek State to repay the loans of the Athens Concert Hall and Article 5 states the full ownership of the Greek State with all its assets. For a period of 30 years, the use of the transferred building complex to the OMMA, ensuring its viability and at the same time serving the needs of the public for the provision of cultural goods for the benefit of society. So we must continue the artistic work of the Athens Concert Hall with social orientation, with all cultural actors in our country, the National Orchestra of Athens, the Greek Scene, the Association of Greek Muslims. Finally, we must say that the Theatrical Museum is housed there. The Theatre Museum, which many governments, many ministers of Culture, left it in its fate, left it on the ground floor of the Spiritual Center of Athens to rot in the treasures of the Greek theatre.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u37	In the basement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u38	Yes, I would like to note that, Mr President, as I would like to point out, the Athens State Orchestra is already home to the palace and the Athens State Orchestra. That's what happens now. Therefore, emphasis should be placed on continuing the work of the mansion, his educational function, educational concerts, music workshops, masterclasses, conferences, lectures, etc. Let me note, ladies and gentlemen, that SYRIZA's permanent position from the opposition was still the mansion to go to the public. So his social work must be enlarged, he must come in greater contact with the living artistic production of the place, with young people, with social strata that today do not have access to the mansion, to operate with transparency, dignity, equality and pluralism in the choices. The mansion caused the admiration but also the anger of the public, in a period of irresponsibility, social injustice and a high level of legism, ladies and gentlemen. We hope, therefore, that in a Congregation of Music friendly to the one who supports it morally and materially, to the Greek people. I therefore welcome this legislation and invite you to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u39	Mr Tasulas - come on, Mr Tassoula - Mr Georgiadis and two colleagues have been self-determination, and then I will give the floor to Mr Stamatis, who is in and to any special speaker or rapporteur for three minutes, to put them on the amendment and then, as we have said, to the Ministers and the Members of Parliament. Representatives Here, Mr. Tasoula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, today's debate, like yesterday's, is under the depressing shadow of the tragedy of our Hellenic Navy and the loss of three men's officers in the marine region between Amorgos and Kalymnos. This depressing shadow, which is unfortunately repeated, is the price of the dangerous missions of the Armed Forces even in a time of peace. This depressing shadow obviously does not fall apart in words. It is necessary, as has been announced by the New Democracy, to answer the questions of the accident, to take immediate care of the poor families of the fallen officers and, most importantly, the state in these difficult times needs to show in practice, "I am reporting the honors", as Pericles said to the Epitaph. He did not call upon the Athenians to give and declare the honors to the fallen by means of resolutions or verbal deliriums or by voices. "I work with honour," Pericles said the most important eulogy ever made in the history of mankind. So we must also show our honour in remembrance of these fallen officers, who fell because they wanted to strengthen the preparedness of the Armed Forces and, in particular, the Hellenic Navy in relation to the question of territorial waters by the threat from the east and Turkey. This debate is being conducted and under the further depressing shadow of a climate in the country, which lives in the country, grieves the government, raises concerns about the stability of the country and slows down the country's exit from the crisis. The government in response to this gloomy climate chooses the method of rectifying enemies. It creates a so-called hostilities, cultivates a supposedly existence of enemies - who are not with us - because the government is preparing for political developments, treating them as being hampered and not as a failure. While it is unsuccessful, it raises the image of the blocked, the sabotage, the undernourished, let and convince some of its constituents, that it is prevented from doing its work, so it is "deserved to support us, possibly even to vote for us" - you never know, superficiality is not your weak spot - and so it builds a huge looseness within the country, which is based on your only existent enemy. It's yourself three, four, five, six months ago. Your only enemy is your beastly, monstrous lies, but also your lack of honesty and responsibility to admit them. We have said about this bill and we have also taken a position on the constitutionality of this shortcoming of sanctions, legislative acts. I am going to stand in the last two minutes of my speech on the amendment to this bill, which relates to the origin of the Grand Music Minutes in public. As Minister of Culture I had worked for this purpose, and there was a bill about identical to this amendment that is being tabled today. The key to this bill being accepted, this amendment accepted, is I think the effort that was made in the summer of 2014, so that the consideration for the assumption of the debts of the Grand Musician is both building complexes and not one. And I'm explaining. The total of the liabilities of the Concert Hall of Music from loans, interest, deposit of guarantee letters and obligations to third parties is exactly EUR 390 million. The total value of the two buildings, of the two complexes, of old and new - where the Triantine room is and where the Lambraki and Mitropoulos rooms are - and of this huge building cover of seventy thousand square meters, based on estimates of two major audit firms, is 890 million. The state which has guaranteed - and this is the reality - the loans of the Grand for the reconstruction of these units to the National Bank and to the European Investment Bank, is, anyway, a guarantor and, as soon as they have been guaranteed, these amounts have been entered in the public debt, so now, if we accept this amendment, the public debt is not financially neutral. In the face of this assumption, which has already been made with the guarantee of the public, two buildings are built, which can be exploited by the experience of the great and by the initiatives of the Ministry of Culture, in order to continue and widen the very worthwhile cultural offer of the Grand Music. It is therefore a good amendment. It tackles the problem by resolving it for the mansion, for the workers and for the high cultural mission of the mansion. On the other hand, it takes care of the public interest and ensures the interests of the public. I therefore consider it reasonable that the New Democracy will support and vote for this amendment, because - I repeat - it takes care of a cultural institution not only of Athens, Greece and Europe - I would say - and at the same time serves - the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u41	And hang up with this, please, Mr. Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u42	Of course, Mr President. But because it has been heard here that the mansion has been an inconsistent mechanism and uncontrolled one and because it happened for seven months to oversee the Conservative of Music, I would like to say that the Conservative of Music has been supervised by the Ministry of Culture since 1981. He submitted annual reports to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture and reports from accountants. It was never the case that this image of immunity was presented by a colleague here yesterday. We can discuss the feasibility of building or building size, but these buildings today exist. And as far as these buildings are concerned, the Greek State has guaranteed its funding. The acquisition of these buildings through this amendment by the Greek State is the highest and safest safeguarding of the interests of the State, and that is why the amendment is correct and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u43	We should, of course, also know about the cost of buildings and whether this corresponds to their standards. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and three educational sessions since the 1st General School of New Ionia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Georgiadis has the floor. Mr Georgiadis, you have five minutes with a small tolerance like all colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to remind my older colleagues and also to meet my younger colleagues on the last scene in the parliamentary history of the Samara - Venizelos government. The then Minister for Culture, Mr Kostas Tsouulas, has come to plenary. It goes down, Mr Ministers, precisely this amendment that you have brought today - but exactly the same! The only difference is the signature of the Minister. At the time Mr Tasoula's amendment is being tabled and trying to explain why it is important to pass, and why it is for the benefit of the public, all the wing of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks almost jumped on the benches for the new gift we made in the complexion - to recall yesterday's debate - 'for the new gift we made in Psychras', 'for the new gift we made to the great interests'. Rainbow! And then Mr Tasoulas - a noble man, I wouldn't have done it in his place - decided to withdraw it. As it turns out, Mr Tasoula, you wrongly withdrew it. Because they come and bring her today. Of course none of them will answer because they were yelling at the time. They will do what they are not listening now and they will look to the right and the left and try to convince us, because what was 'a gift to the complexion' a year ago is now a well-made agreement for the benefit of the Greek people. You'll tell me, these are castings for the SYRIZA - ANEL government. And I'm saying they're baked, because it happens in the Chamber that he's the whole decent and sympathetic Mr. Dritsa. Minister, I would really like your comment. We were both together in this Chamber in the summer of 2014, ladies and gentlemen, I Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and Mr Dritsa Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA. Then Mr. Drits said from the Step of Parliament that SYRIZA wants NATO dismantled, because he thought NATO no longer has any use at all. You remember them, Minister. You haven't forgotten. Yesterday, however, I did not see you answering Mr. Kammenos, your fellow Minister of National Defence, who was coming back because your government has succeeded in NATO taking care of the Aegean. I would very much like you, Mr Dritsa, not to override my comment and answer it. Why a year and a half ago from this Step SYRIZA said that the Atlantic Alliance must be dissolved and now SYRIZA asks the Atlantic Alliance to keep the Aegean Sea? What's changed? It's interesting to hear your view as Minister of Shipping, because you have some kind of complicity in all that's going on. You didn't ask yourself a question? Or did you now become NATO's transparent preacher? But will you tell me how to get in touch with you? What first of all can be said about this government? I see the Minister of Health. He has brought the parallel program and the coverage - he says - is advertised on the channels. Aren't you embarrassed? Don't you know that's been done for a year and a half? You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u45	Where? What hospital is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u46	You don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u47	You don't know that. You weren't in the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u48	Fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u49	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u50	Minister, you will respond in any way you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u51	The substance remains. I have submitted to the House in a year two hundred and forty thousand of our fellow citizens who have received medical coverage from private pharmacies as if they were insured, have performed surgery in hospitals as if they were insured and have done diagnostic tests at the EMCDDA as if they were insured. And you come and present it as something new. But I repeat - to come to today - one of SYRIZA has explained to us what changed in a year and a half? Why, a year and a half ago, you accused Mr. Tasoula that he was giving a gift to the complexion of what you're bringing today and today, you like it? Can you give us an answer on the substance of what has changed? If you don't have one, you must rise with courage and say: "We apologize. What we said a year ago about the mansion was wrong." Mr. Dritsa must say: "I'm sorry. What we said a year ago about NATO was wrong." That's how it happens in politics, not you have it all yours. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, so that I do not abuse time. Mr. Pappas came here yesterday - the end of ungratefulness! - and he started bringing the channels to us in various European countries. I must admit that when I heard him too, I was impressed, because I thought that when a Minister in Parliament is tabling a board of television networks in other European countries, he cannot lie to it. Nowadays, the names of television stations in all the newspapers in the various European countries have been published. Poppas: 'Fourt four television licences in Austria'. We actually have nine television licences in Austria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u52	Digitals?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u53	Digitals are all now. There are no proportionals, sir. Digitals are all channels. What do you think? You voted yesterday and you don't know. The analogue broadcast has been abolished. Digitals are all channels. We're talking about the national range of a joint programme. Four channels said the Pope yesterday about Austria, nine is actually. Do you understand? He comes to the Greek Parliament, he mocks the MPs, he mocks the Greeks who are watching him, without a trace of shame, without a trace of tsippas, as the people say, they have him today in all the newspapers with the tables, saying one - one of the channels that exist in each European country and you who voted do not know that the analogue show has been abolished. Is that how we're gonna go forward? I would therefore like, Mr President, by closing one of SYRIZA's words to us: What changed in a year and what was on a Tassoula gift in the complexion has now been done for the benefit of the Greek public? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u54	We will now go as follows: because he is in the Chamber and Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Stamatis and any other rapporteur who comes, I will give Mr Stamatis the floor for three minutes on the amendment, if he wishes. Then I will give Mr Kutsuko the floor on the same subject. Then we'll go in a row. Because Mr. Drits was the first to come from the ministers, I'll give him the floor. We shall then be alternated to the parliamentary representatives. If we do it smoothly, we'll be done by about 11:30, because it has very parliamentary control then. Mr Stamatis, you have the floor for three minutes on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I propose that the two amendments be voted on. But I do take this opportunity to add my own remarks on the amendment to the Music House. It is self-proof that it is in the interests of the Greek State - because he is a guarantor of the debts of the man - and he must take the building and the entire complex. It is the same amendment that we had brought in the summer of 2014 and you threatened us that you would take us to special courts. I am sorry, you have to forgive her. I'm sorry, it gives your word a prestige. Mr President, speaking from the Step of the House yesterday, I said that two ministers, Mr Mousalas and Mr Drasakis, made reports and points about the immediate, imminent risk of closing the border. I have rightly asked myself about two things: firstly, why are they now seeing it? If they were to read Mr Junker's letter to the Slovenian Prime Minister twenty days ago, that should have already been said and reacted. And the second thing I noticed is this. Good, did you make an observation and say that we need to prepare, but what are the preparations you are going to make? That's what I said when I spoke yesterday. Then I was amazed to watch the unprecedented unprecedented attack by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Friend, who slandered the New Democracy in two parts: firstly, that we have already drowned the refugees and, secondly, that, because of us, we are closing the border, because we are out of the farmers closing the streets. It is well known on the first point, that few - unfortunately again - have drowned in the Aegean, and today on SYRIZA's day to drown people under fifty in number, it is no longer journalistic news. On the second issue of farmers' movement, the President of our party obviously - I say this to you to know - also a discomfort to some Members of Parliament who would like to go to their provinces to talk to farmers, said public two things. Firstly, he called on the farmers - as rightly as they may - not to close the streets and, secondly, he did not appear to have our own Member in any mobilisation. Where is Mr. Friends legalizing to launch this slander? This morning reading a news from the journalist Teleglou, I understood the reality. You're setting up a setup. What did the post say? He said that the government has agreed, in return for the creditors' demands in the forthcoming assessment, not to protest against the closure of the border north, not to protest at the closure of the border in the Western Balkans. The post is too heavy and serious. So far there has been no reaction from the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u56	Please complete, Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u57	Noon, you have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u58	First you'll have to deny it. Secondly, we will very carefully monitor the way in which you react to this imminent, in the view of two Ministers, or possible closure of our borders. It gives me particular impression that so far there has been no formal protest, no official representation. And to close my reasoning. Is that why Mr. Friends tried to put the burden of border closure on us, saying falsely and slanderly, that we are mobilizing farmers to close the streets? Because Mr. Friends usually doesn't get innocent because that's what he's like, but when he's carrying out a mission from too high.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Stopatis, please. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, flexibility and tolerance must not be exploited. There are no secondaryities simply because of the nature of the amendment and because everything has not been put - as I have said - I, by way of derogation, give all the reasons. Okay, old colleague is Mr. Stamatis, I didn't interrupt him. I also give Mr Koutsukouko the floor to put him on the table, with the tolerance, but there are no seconds, to make it clear. They will speak to those who did not speak yesterday, as the list was delivered to me. Mr. Kutsuko, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, you realize that we are interested in getting through to the timely question we have tabled...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u61	They didn't insinuate anything, just...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u62	...because farmers are on the streets and they need to know what the parties say and what the government says. Also to earn time, I won't comment on what I had to comment on. Our parliamentary representative will do so. However, I would like to ask you, since we agreed yesterday, and we have two important amendments, to show a slight tolerance. The first amendment, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the change in the deadlines for n. 3869/2010 of the PASOK Act, which many call the Katseli Act, the protection of which at first residence and the borrowers was changed by the Government. We said then that the deadlines are not enough and that the borrowers will be found at the risk of auctioning. And we saw the tails in the peace court on the eve of celebrations. The government is now aware that the deadlines are not enough and it is coming to extend them. Obviously we will vote but we are afraid that these deadlines will not be enough either. In any case, it was foreseen that Minister Stathakis will issue a KHS to report the papers they will produce. Well, in the long run a DSA can't get them out? What are they doing there in this ministry? I now come, Mr President, to the major issue of the Continental Music. What is the Concert Hall of Music, its social and cultural offer describes it in detail, with openness and completeness, I would say. What is not described in the explanatory statement to the draft draft submitted is the question of sustainability, as it refers to some economic elements and not all. And since we were here yesterday witnessing a terrible political attack by the Prime Minister and government ministers, that we are the ones who are supporting interests, we are deleting debts and loans, the government must respond today to this act. Because I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that when we brought the extension of tax and insurance information to pay workers, you told us - I am reading an official statement from SYRIZA - about 'a timeless two-party scandal'. Now what are we going to do, 'temporary'? And I read the question of twenty-eight SYRIZA Members, including half the Ministerial Council. Not to mention all of them, to mention only Mr Chakaloto, the Minister of Finance, who has signed the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u63	You're wronging others!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I will not finish my position unless the representative of the Minister of Finance is here, Mr Alexiades, because Mr Tsakalotos explained yesterday that he will be absent, to explain to us the signature of Mr Tsakalotou in the contract, with which the Greek State state the Congregation of Music, with the debts and possibly deficits. Because it does not, as I said, have a viability plan. And we want the representative of the Ministry of Finance who signed Mr Tsakalotou's contract, if what the SYRIZA Members said at the time in their question were satisfied, that is, if the government has the contracts, if it has the documents of the grant, much more if it has the balance sheets, accounts and reports of the sworn accountants. For the Greek state to know what it receives, so that Greek citizens know what they will pay. Because, here we have the great political battle for the so-called 'type' that you would cut supplementary pensions by 300 million and all the debts of the Megaron are 300 million and an annual grant. We therefore have every intention to vote on this amendment, because the Music House must exist, it must continue to offer and we cannot dismiss the workers. But we must ask for explanations and I personally am not prepared to vote if the representative of the Ministry of Finance does not come...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u65	It became clear, Mr. Kutsuko. We will not force them what they will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u66	No, that is not the case, Mr President. Listen, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Kutsuko, good, that's not right. I have another point of view. I've given you three minutes extra. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u68	I have my own point of view. So when we are making dramatic cuts here, the Minister of Finance should tell us if he is committed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u69	All right, all right, we're not gonna put the gun on his head to tell you. If he wants to, he'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u70	To hear it, 'cause now we're asking. To bring to the House of Greeks the balance sheets, accounts and reports of the sworn accountants for the Congregation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u71	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u72	Is it clear, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u73	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u75	Well, you could have said it in a minute. I give the floor to the first of the Ministers - and he was the first to come - to Mr Dritsa for eight minutes. I shall then give the floor alternately to the parliamentary representatives with the parliamentary order. Mr. Madash will probably be closed to answer. Mr. Dendias, Mr. Amyras and the others will take the floor. So, in order to smack you a little, Minister, now you have to tell us how, instead of nationalizing the ports, you sold the ports and state-run the Megaro. So, to lighten the conversation a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u76	That is how you burden it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u77	I just wanted to get rid of her a little bit. Here, Minister, you have the floor for eight minutes with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u78	I recognise, Mr President, that you have a sense of humor tested over a long period of time and that is exactly how I see it. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will not rush to engage in the so shallow and easy tactics of the degrading line that many politicians use in this Chamber and in general political life. It is important at the moment to see what the loss of the three officers of the Navy means and in what environment this loss is involved. It is important that we stay in low tones with sorrow and sorrow, which we obviously need to pass on to the people concerned. This must be the spirit of the Greek Parliament and of this Chamber. It's not just a feeling. It is the essential Leventis attitude of the Greek political world at such times. Of course, I am sure - and I trust the General Staff of Navy and the General Staff of National Defence and the Ministry of National Defence - that the investigation will be carried out in all terms and rules in order to reflect the reality that led to this tragic event, because this is not the field of a new strange search but a debt to the Greek state and, above all, a debt to the three perpetrators, against the Hellenic Navy, against the effort that the Armed Forces are making. I would like to pay tribute to the participation of the Port Authority in the efforts that have started since yesterday morning on research, research and the identification of lost persons, which are still going on today. The participation of the Port Corps in cooperation with the Navy can be recorded very positively - unfortunately, in this tragedy - by those who follow it and know things. Ladies and gentlemen, the degradation of the opponent is not a policy. It's a dominance. Politics is the strict criticism of the opponent of the relevant proposals and responsibility for these proposals. They make a great deal of effort in this Chamber to say that SYRIZA, as opposition, did the same. He didn't do the same thing. Yes, he made tough opposition, hard criticism, never or almost personal - if there are some individual negative exceptions, to accept it, but he never made personal criticism - by highlighting the alternative perspective that we are fighting for. Exactly, Mr Georgiadis, the concern about whether alliances and defence organizations such as NATO continue to be of the same character today or what context they are in or what their perspective is is not a matter of what Dritsa or SYRIZA says. It is a top, central issue that must concern the Greek political world, the European political world at all times and to raise issues. Mr. Georgiadis has chosen me today as the subject of his misrepresentation. Already before he came here, he had gone to another event to tell the same thing. Now he's gone, he may have gone to some radio stations, some channels, to say the same. Is that politics? It's a pussy. For the same - at a better level, I must say - I would like to criticise the way Mr Stamatis spoke just now. Really? Did Mr. Drasakis and Mr. Mousalas need the day before yesterday to raise the problem in the public debate? I am not talking about closing the border. There is no one to shut us down. But do they not know that, for months now, developments in Europe over the day add national egos and initiatives of national egoism from too many countries in Europe? Do they not know that a figure that already exceeds one million refugees has been installed in Europe, mainly passing through our country? Does he not know that refugee and immigration, population movements for many historians are the main parameter of developments in human history? For the first time have we heard about population movements and how much have they changed the course of history? So unrelated and innocent are we? And is it a question of the inability or weakness of a government? Did Merkel, the powerful and very well organized Germany, deal with the matter? Did France? Greece was able, ladies and gentlemen. At the very first moment, we have been aiming to keep the Geneva Treaty up, as the international treaty requires, and at the same time to do everything, so that there is not one person entering our country and not to record it, with very great weaknesses, of course, with very great shortages, organisational, technological, economic and others. Instead of relying on this nationwide effort, as requested by the Prime Minister at the Council of Heads of State and for the refugee and for the insurance and other topical issues, the New Democracy, in particular, but also other parties, choose the government's deterioration and then wonder whether an entire system of economic, political and conflicting interests is actually in force or not, all they care about are irresponsible, criminally irresponsible, how they will take this government down. They don't care about anything else! So, the development we are watching, ladies and gentlemen, in our neighborhood is a historic development, a top priority, and will we be dealing with it in this way? And it is no accident when the carnage took place in Paris, and the French asked for information on both of them who were found dead and tracked about their fingerprints and sent to all services, if the Greek Police and the Port Authority had the full identity of both, regardless of whether these data had been used by international European agencies. Is this not a sign of writing a serious state and of a policy that tries, in any way, to be kept, in these enormous difficulties?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u80	You'll talk, Mr. Georgiade, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u81	The president asks for permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u82	I asked the president for permission, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u83	Who's gonna talk, and I'm not gonna talk about it. Finish, Minister. I've already given you two extra minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. So these issues and developments with NATO participation are very serious. Research-rescue was never just a parameter with its humanitarian side. They have always been - and everyone we know has identified this - a field of geopolitical and geostrategic conflicts. Let us keep the humanitarian dimension up. Developments involving NATO forces in the Aegean are very much changing the rules. It's too early to talk to you fully about all this. Let us keep the Geneva Convention open and upright. The Port House is present and as far as it is concerned it will continue to fulfil its duty and monitor the borders and save human lives when they are at risk. In this direction, the whole political world must be activated and genuinely kept to the level of circumstances. It's not just things. This government assures you that it has never dealt with any of these issues in shallow...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u85	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u86	I'm done, Mr. President. Unfortunately I cannot answer because I do not have the time, but I think what I said was even more important. I have all the answers for both Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Stamatis on the details and the individual questions relating to the act of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u87	Why are you asking to speak, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u88	For a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u89	There was no personal issue, in my view. Explain for thirty seconds what the staff is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u90	When the Minister in my question answers that what I'm doing is cheap and that I'm just a steward...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u91	It was a political designation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u92	Personal, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u93	I will ask that he accept to be deleted from the Minutes. There must be no such thing as that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u94	Thirty seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u95	You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u96	Minister, I speak with great respect and my question is purely political. A year and a half ago, you told me that your conference had decided that you should leave NATO and you thought NATO was an Agency that should be dissolved. You said it here to me. This debate, if you remember, caused over about three or four days of intercurrent television conversations and confrontations between the two parties about what SYRIZA's position on NATO is. All of your members were on television and explained that your programming position was against NATO. Yesterday your Government, your Prime Minister, the Minister of National Defence and you obviously, since you are a member of the Government, celebrated the agreement with NATO on the protection of maritime borders. I ask you directly, nor do I give you any insults. Do you have anything to say to the National Representation regarding your previous post? That's what I asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u98	You have just retabled the same question. This is a very nice question to ask Mr. Kammenos a timely question and to come by Mr. Kammenos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Drits had told me, not Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Dritsas is another Minister. Do you want to go to a very interesting timely question? If you want, stop the terrain. It is specific - and I address everywhere - what we are discussing. So far I have not heard from everyone, including the Minister. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u101	I'm going to need less, Mr. President. Mr. Georgiadis, I fully confirm the narrative you made a moment ago. He doesn't need anything more. This has been done in public here, with each one of us at any time. You were gone, you came in, and maybe something missed you. I think that that is exactly what I responded to you with complete completeness from the Step just before, because it does not matter what the targeting is through a serious political study and consideration of the strategic perspective that we need to lead. It is important that this targeting of how at each particular juncture shapes conditions that one needs to stand and face them as produced by life itself. This answer, in other words, I gave you a moment ago. You can see it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u102	Good. He has asked and will take the floor, because he is entitled to Mr Nikolaos Dendias as a parliamentary representative. Then I will give the floor to Mr Xanthos, who is the second minister to come, and will follow Mr Amyras and, if he wishes, Mr Papachristopoulos. We will be closing down with the parliamentarians to complete the third Minister, Mrs Fotou, as soon as she arrives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u103	We said the parliamentarians would speak with the parliamentary class.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u104	You spoke yesterday, sir. You've spoken. We're talking about prototypes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u105	You will give me two minutes for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u106	After the completion of everyone's prototypes. You weren't inside, Mr. Pappa. I have explained these and said that, by way of derogation from yesterday's agreement, for two or three minutes, yesterday's parliamentarians, if they want to be seconded, will give them the floor. Therefore, do not interrupt and be informed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u107	Why are you being mean, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u108	I can't. You're a practical man. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u109	For two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u110	You'll have it after the prototypes are completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u111	You're handsome!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, thank you. The debate yesterday at the National Representation was, and I think, also under the responsibility of the Prime Minister - an element of intense austerity. This is only natural when one accuses all other political forces of struggling, secret routes, etc. I think it is good, despite the inadmissibility of the implied and Prime Minister and Mr Pappas, to return to a lower tone of discussion, which is usually more beneficial. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we in the New Democracy are now practically providing a sample of political morality. In what way? It was previously explained by Mr Tasouula and Mr Stamatis when they were placed. We support amendments and positions brought forward by the SYRIZA Government, for which we have been suffering from contagious diseases for a few months now. And we would have every special right, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, not only not to support you, but to encroach on you and make a fool of your attitude. And yet we are not doing this. Why don't we do it? Because the country is at a difficult juncture and it must be the right thing to do, no matter who does it. And that was our policy so far, and I think that in this new President of the New Democracy Kyriakos Mitsotakis has shown sufficient samples of seriousness and of writing, such as, for example, his position on the agricultural sector. Because what is strange, ladies and gentlemen, is that here we have a new government which has actually received three people's orders in twelve months. Unprecedented, I think, in Greek history! Yet, this government today stands weak, collapsed and with all the social classes against it. How does that happen? It's logically impossible. How these people who have trusted you four months ago are on the road now and I am learning - and I am sorry to say - from the Ministry of Rural Development there are also serious incidents. Why are farmers against you? Why are the professionals against you? Why is everyone against you? They are, ladies and gentlemen, against you for one reason: why did you tell them completely lies and why you are completely going backwards from what you were elected for. That is the truth and you know it and we know it. Maybe you don't like it, maybe with various crowns trying to make it look good, but that's the truth. You will allow me to tell you, Minister, with all due respect - and if you will allow me, because you are a serious, mixed man - that what Mr Georgiadis said to you is true and what you said to him again, I am sorry, but it is air. You yourself did not only place yourself in general for NATO, but you said for yourself that it works for the interests of the powerful forces alone. I have your own place here in the Minutes. For the interests of powerful powers alone, ladies and gentlemen, in the view of the Government, NATO operates and pursues the enforcement rules throughout the world of the interests of the United States. I put it back to the Minutes to update the world's perception. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So with them, they come and agree. You'll tell me that Mr. Dritsas could make a personal view, different from the government, respected for himself. Let's see it that way. But he was telling the truth. I have here the practice of the 2013 SYRIZA Conference, which expresses exactly the same view of NATO and prescribes our departure. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how a country is run. I am also tabling this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm sorry to tell you, but that's not how a country is being run. I understand that when you're 3% -4% - with many of you I've met in the university amphitheaters - you can say what you want, do one more day, say backwards, but no, that's not how a country is run. Because when you run a country, you have a responsibility for human lives. You have your hands on whether anyone will have bread on the other day for their family, if they'll be open to their store, if they can sow their field. These people, who are now rocking Greek policemen and the Ministry of Rural Development, are not doing so because they are out of their minds. They do, because you have given them specific promises and positions which you have completely undoed. I do not want to repeat - and I have it here - what the Prime Minister has been telling them for a year, and not only has he told them, but has made sure that there is also a decision by the SYRIZA Conference on your agricultural policy to secure what you are obviously going to do. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Tsipras and the farmer were also mentioned yesterday on the tractor, which he assured twice about the completeness of his promise and called on the farmer to fight together the establishment. Let's see what you'd have to tell him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u114	And NATO.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u115	And NATO together. Ladies and gentlemen, you are dealing with rural, immigration, insurance and taxation - to take the first you have in front of you - and you have no answer for any of them. None serious answer you have for any of them. And you do not have to a large extent - and I am sorry to tell you - because your governance is not serious. It is a good governance, amateur, with no authority and no ability. How many do you miss, ladies and gentlemen, for pension? How much do you have to cover for this year? I'll tell you what. You need to cover 1.8 billion this year. That's your deal. We had not been asked for this because the growth rates of the economy were others. Because of your mistakes, we have come to an end this year and for another ten years to cut off 1.8 billion. We're still in the first year and we can't figure it out. Why am I telling you this? Mr. Muzalas said yesterday that migration will cost us from here to now, to us, to the Greeks, to the Greek state, to our budget, about EUR 1 billion more. Since 1.8 billion, then, we have to pay for it in the coming months for the mistakes you have made in immigration. Can I tell you something else? It has already cost you the immigration, if you do not know it - and I ask you the relevant question I have asked in early February - another 350 million. As many as you have paid from the pocket of the Greek taxpayer so far, i.e. EUR 1,800,000, 000, for which the whole story is happening. You're going to tell me: could we do differently for the 350,000,000 euros? I'll tell you: of course, you could. I also asked you a question about this. There are 558 000 million European money from which you have not touched a single euro, at least for twenty-five days I have had data. When I had asked the Minister at the end of the year "why don't you get money from Europeans, but you're eating from the Greek taxpayer's laxity," do you know what the answer I had? That a request for emergency funding will be submitted in the next period. I'll give it to you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On 8 December you did not submit a request for funding for immigration, ladies and gentlemen. You don't know where you are and where you're going. You don't know anything. Your deadlines are running out of hand. Things are going completely out of your control. The government is squeezing you. You come here and tell us incredible things about warfare against interlocutor, against internal enemies, against external enemies. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to tell you this, but the reality is that you have screwed up. Remember what I was telling you, when you were elected, how many times I wished you good luck and how many times I offered you cooperation, whether obvious or missing, if you did not want to be exposed to any of your audiences. You've screwed up. This story is not kept, nor is the country. I told you yesterday. With regard to this story with NATO, Mr. Stoltberg comes out yesterday and talks about a joint request from Greece and Turkey. No one knows that request. I was told yesterday by the Minister of National Defence that it was classified. I'll respect it. We'll make sure our chief of department sees it. However, on what basis does Greece suddenly turn by eighty degrees the steering wheel of its foreign policy and make a joint request with Turkey, without any discussion of this at any level, without Mr Mitsotakis being asked to give his opinion and without the other Heads being invited to give their views? When did you and NATO acquire this heartfeltness and confidence that you can make a joint request with Turkey and be sure of the outcome? I honestly tell you that I do not understand these things, as no one understands them as a serious person thinking about them. I return to the issue of insurance and taxation, which also involves the problems of agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, do you believe that these provisions can be passed? I honestly ask you if you have any such illusion. Let me tell you something else. Let's assume with some magic you're going through. Do you have the impression that you can apply them? Have you seen what any free trader means to the tax burden that you want to impose on him by converting insurance into a redistributive rather than a distribution? Have you seen anyone in the history of the planet working to tax and burden 90%, 95%, 78%, 83% in a country like Greece that attempts means "hazardous", which being a professional means stress in life and investment in heart disease? Where do you think you're living? Which society are you preparing to regulate like this? What rate of growth are you talking to us in the next few years? How's this thing going to happen? Is it going to be a divine urging? Right now, everyone is leaving the country. There's no young man with ability and hope that he doesn't want in his dreams to live somewhere else. This is your creation. Your perception is that the state alone - and which state, a lousy state that operates unrealisticly - can give the solution. He can't give the solution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I again tell you that I do not welcome your failure. I'm not rejoicing at all. I'm really sorry. Here's me, here's my fortune, here's my family, here's my kids, here's everyone's kids in this room. For our children, I am very sorry because they will have to live for very difficult years. But please for one thing. Stop the tumbling. We need to speak honestly and seriously. Tell us what you can do to help if we can. If you can't, go. It's obvious you won't be staying for a long time. I think you understand that, too. Looks on your faces. From up here, it doesn't seem even cleaner. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, in any case, stop the tombs and slavery of the Greek people. Can I tell you something at the end of the line? I've noticed SYRIZA's badge, the one with the four flags. It's not very nice anyway. With your policy, you could have Nadia Comaneci as a beautiful badge. It's all you have to do for the tumbles you've done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, too, for having finished your speech. Because I see how many parliamentary representatives have left for protagonists, I will give the floor to another one, then to Mr Blonde and then close with the other three parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u118	Just a minute, Minister, because now I'm talking. For reasons of order, although I know he likes to close, I'll ask Mr. Manda if he wants to talk now or at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u119	In the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u120	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday 15 February 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 519/9-2-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Gerasimios Balaoura to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the cost of using electronic means of payment. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 512/9-2-2016 by MP Argolidas of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the establishment and operation of a Special Professional High School in Argolida. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the need to meet the needs of educational staff in primary school. 4. The current question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health about the problems of running the Centre for the Health of Parentium in the Regional Unit of Drama. 5. The Question No 523/9-2-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the reduction of the prices of the Photovoltaic Parks. 6. Mr Georgios Katsiantoni, Member of the Association of Central Banks, addressed to the Minister of Health, on the maintenance of radiological equipment and the proper functioning of the Hospital of Larissa. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 520/9-2-2016 by MP Evros of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Anastassia Gara to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the reduction of the cotton production plan and the extension of the harvest deadline for the years 2014-2015. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 513/9-2-2016 by Congressman I Piraeus, Nea Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the payment of debts to the municipalities by citizens of immovable property, due to the acceding of land for the creation of public spaces. 3. The Question No 515/9-2-2016 by MP Elias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Giannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance on the tax burdens of farmers. 4. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the Yunker package. 5. The question by No. 484/2-2-2016 of the Greek Congressman, Mr. Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the absence of the state in the necessary projects for the protection of Hymittos. 6. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of the projects for the development of the former airport of Greece. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 429/19-1-2016 of the Athens MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the resolution of the "SAPIS" Group's problem and the determination of the time schedule for the payment of the compensation to the beneficiaries. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP B' Athens, George Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, regarding the procurement of banks for the interbank transfers and the use of cards. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question and application under number 745/38/2-11-2015 by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr Kim Glen, as Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mr Theodores Fortsakis, is seeking permission from a short-day absence abroad from 29 February to 1 March. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u121	The House approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u123	Minister, why do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u124	I would like to make a point of clarification and information on the finances put forward by Mr Denkias.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u125	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u126	Mr Teddy, selective and repetitive, do not deal with these issues. There is an objective reality for the refugee. Your government since 2014 had to organize on all the islands first reception centers. It didn't happen. The Moria she started was the only...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u127	On 15 July it became the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u128	Listen to me. I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u129	Mr Kyriazides, there is a parliamentary representative who will respond. Complete because I will never give the floor again for no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u130	There was no welfare at all. Only in Moria was there progress, but not in those very rules we committed ourselves. And on economics, establishing, setting up, legislating a managing authority...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u131	Three!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u132	In March we started - we could not start earlier - building the managing authority to collect the money, which you should have had from summer 2014. From that point on, we tripled the funds at the June summit, the Greek Prime Minister, with the extension of the "Third" and "Poseidon". The procedure for collecting these amounts - we have already received from the External Borders Fund and from others - is, as you know, very bureaucratic in Europe, more than Greece. First you spend, first you document, then you collect. You can't find money available to do your job.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u133	Finish it, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u134	Well, let's do, for the Greek people, a serious talk about all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u135	All right! However, you will allow me to tell you for a minute, before I give the floor, that there are different answers to Members from different ministers for these questions. There must be coordination so that someone does not seem to be misplaced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u137	You have the floor, Mr. Dendia, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u138	Minister, I sincerely told you that I also like you and respect you as a human - not your perceptions - and that is why I am sorry that you have told me what you have said to me. Because that, with all due respect, I say to you that it shows that your Government - not you, because obviously someone told you this - is completely ignorant of the matter. And I can explain to you why, unfortunately for me, the migration has been handled and I know it well. Firstly, in the action plan that we submitted in 2012 to the European Union, we faced the flows and centres that you are forced to make as hot spots were not there. There were two centers, one on Evros and one in Mytilini. They were made on both of my days before I left. The second was inaugurated by Mr. Kikilia. The rest would be introduced with first-host mobile units, which were also ready, Minister. Secondly, with regard to the managing authority, what you say is worse and it also shows that your Government does not know what it says. The managing authority that handled European funds was the Ministry of Public Order's OSCE. You decide to abolish it from Genarus. I told you then that you'd step on it, because you can't start another one fast. You're late. You've made seven months to make another start. You fixed it in July with n. 4332. And for seven months you haven't even had a start to absorb 1 euro. I had asked you fifteen questions here and told you what you should do and you did not listen. And I voted for them - not to you personally, to your ministers - because it hurt me for my country, since I saw a huge additional problem arise that could not be solved. And you didn't hear me! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But beyond that, and beyond that, what you have said about the tripling of funds, I will make you even more sad. Do you know where the extra funds approved by the European Union will go? I'll tell you! They will go to Mr Erdogan, where we will pay 2.3 billion, of which a couple hundred million will be the Greek taxpayer. And that's what you come here and you call it a "Government success"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u139	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u140	Minister, excuse me! This is not a timely question on immigration. The agenda is another. It closes the question of your litigation with Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u141	It cannot be done, Mr President! I'd like the floor, please. They're critical issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u142	Excuse me! It's not a question of conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u143	But the Greek people must be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u144	Your parliamentary representative will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u145	What are these things, Mr President? What Mr. Dendias says doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u146	Good! In your view, it does not apply. Are we going to talk about immigration, or are we talking about a specific draft law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, just give the floor to the Minister for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u148	But you gave the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u149	I'll be sorry, but it won't happen. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u150	It's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u151	I'm sorry, but we're not going to spread to a timely question about immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u152	Now Mr. Dendias is leaving! He said things are true and he's leaving!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u153	Excuse me! Shouldn't I go to the meeting with Mr. Mitsotakis? If you don't know it, Minister, if you like, I'll give you a private lesson.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u154	Please. I know them very well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Dendia, you're not obliged to answer why you're leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Teddy, don't open my mouth and tell me what you've told me in private! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u157	Is that a situation, Mr President? It's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u158	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u159	Please! You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u160	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u161	We cannot be two-faced, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u163	We can't be two-faced!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u164	Minister, this is the third time I have said it and the fact that you are Minister does not mean that you have any extra right from Members! Do not make me apply the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u165	But you did not give me the floor, Mr President, and that is how Mr Treasury's truths float!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u166	You'll take the floor, if you want, for two minutes of dentistry, after the prototypes have been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u167	Please, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u168	Sit down, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u169	These are crucial issues, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u170	Each Minister will not take the floor whenever he smokes it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u171	That is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u172	We'll finish all colleagues' prototypes and for two minutes later, if you want, you'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u173	That was critical! These are crucial issues, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u175	Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u177	Is this now done by old parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u178	Good morning, Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to respond - and I will do so - to the Minister of Education, Mr Philadelphia, who, yesterday at the beginning of the procedure, tried once again to get the Potami dirty. He has spoken again about complications, such as the fact that foreign power centres are supposed to lead us to a number of other things, which I do not want to describe. If we want to look, ladies and gentlemen, the complex here at the 'SUNFER', here is the complication! And Mr. Philis has to answer the written charge of the former President of Parliament, Zois Konstantopoulou, who spoke of money in the party form. Is there dirty money?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u179	With what evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u180	With what evidence? So you tell us. You were with Mrs Constantopoulos. Mrs. Constantopoulos will know something! I do not adopt the definition, I do not adopt Mrs Constantopoulou's accusation, but when she says on a marginal - in terms of the release of the form, which is not read by eight hundred people - a form of coarse money, she has to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u181	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u182	As far as traffic is concerned! Learn Greek, Mr. Comrade! Finally! It should therefore be Mr. Friends to come here and answer us for the coarse money that, according to Mrs. Konstantopoulou, his former partner, was circulating in the “AGE” funds. That's the one prisoner. So let's go see something else, 'cause yesterday we were talking about the channels. The government has decided to close some channels and open some others. To come back to SWEDEN! Advertising on the front page with red "105.5 FM". Ladies and gentlemen, come here to see: According to the 'LEFT MEDIA', the last balance sheet that SYRIZA's party radio - the party SYRIZA now! - He announced and published it in 2013. Let's take a look at him. In 2013, according to the balance sheet, the turnover of SYRIZA's party radio was EUR 86,587! The results before tax were loss-making - 'it went through', that is - by EUR 1,013,522! And I come to the debts of the insurance agencies. SYRIZA's party radio has to pay contributions to IKA, workers, journalists, managers, technicians, who knows how many years! So it owes the insurance funds 974.915 euros! And the rest of the damage is new to EUR 5,639,076! Do you understand, ladies and gentlemen? He owes the insurance funds, IKA, Mika, I don't know where! He's coming in, he's damaged 5.500,000 euros, and otherwise, the most popular Mr. Friend of the Treasury! Let's go down. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the amendment to the Music House. This is an amendment of sixty pages, Mr Baltas, and you have not tabled the essentials. Before I ask you the questions on which I will be waiting for an answer, let me say two words about this Congregation of Music which, in my opinion, confuses the strange relationship between political forces and outside politicians, business or others. The essence of this relationship in my view - and also, until yesterday, or rather, until five minutes ago, the rest of the Members mainly of the SYRIZA - was that there was something stinking here in the relationship between parties and the Concert Hall of Music, the Governments and the Concert Hall of Music. So listen, the essence of this relationship is defined by Article 45(11) of Law 3943. What did that law say? That the Greek State undertakes to pay the bank directly and in advance the amount of the debt in question without the right to reduce and offset against the Concert Hall and, in general, not to maintain a claim against the Concert Hall, in order to find any amount paid by the Greek State, please note, provided that the majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Organization are appointed directly by the Finance, Culture and Tourism Ministers. That's the essence of the relationship. So now we have arrived. He took over the Greek State by means of guarantees, in fact the burden of the loan of the Mansion. Tell us, Mr Balta, please: These loans to what amount have they reached? I refer to the guarantees, respectively, in their reflection of the loans. Because I heard in this Chamber a little while ago - you would have heard it - that one speaker spoke of 400 million euros of loan to the Mansion, which has now been loaded to the Greek State, someone else spoke of 300 million. We expect you to tell us the exact amount of loans it has taken over time since its first day of establishment the Music Concert. One more thing. Please tell us, what's the annual operating cost? What is the annual cost of maintaining the premises of the Mansion? How is sustainability ensured? Because, yes to some extent, I agree here that, after the Greek State has taken over and loaded the pain, the burden of loans, let it not be left with loans alone, since the Mansion is paid off. We decide to make this exchange. We got rid of the Mansion from the loans, at least to get your real estate. I have heard Mr Tassula - and I am surprised that Mr Tassoulas has given us evidence rather than the government - and we therefore have these questions, Mr Balta. Tell us how sustainability is ensured. We want you to submit to us all the balance sheets, all the accounts and all the reports of the sworn accountants, from the first day of the establishment of the Megaron to this day. Unless the Hall has followed the same tactics of your party radio and does not publish balance sheets. So, here's something like the Concert Hall of Music and SYRIZA's radio. Also, I want to say something. This amendment is not budgetaryly neutral. There is the intention of a one-off expenditure amounting to 14.3 million for the repayment of the outstanding operational liabilities of the House, so you cannot tell me that it is neutral. There's a charge. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in particular, that if we had turned back half an hour before you won the elections, you would have yelled and said now: Is it possible to have what happened in Zakynthos, that is, this girl, Denia Paraskevi, which we all wanted to help, opened up a bill on Facebook because she has a rare condition, cancer in the heart, and had to be transferred abroad and did not have the money? So I tell you that her family tried from Zakynthos and the money was found - EUR 70,000 from all of us, from everyone who gave his financial assistance - and at the same time at the same time the Greek State at the same time on the government's amendment is EUR 14 million. So, if we have to choose between a young girl who needs to be hospitalized and the Megaron, you have decided: Megaron and not the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u183	Okay...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u184	For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u185	Let's go down. Let's go further, Mr President, and two other articles that I want to comment on in this draft law. In Articles 6 and 12 for the independent authorities, it is typical of how this government perceives 'independence', unfortunately, of the principles which have a specific purpose, for example the National Committee on Human Rights. Listen to what this draft law says with its MSPs, of which 59 articles, 30 are extensions, extensions and various others. The National Committee on Human Rights has twenty-six members. Here, under Article 12(1), the Government - and by law will pass it - considers that the committee has been permanently formed if the twenty-six members of the committee have all been appointed and everything - how much you say? - five of which half are appointed directly by the Prime Minister. Let's go down. Listen to this. It shows how you perceive the Greek State and the public administration, Minister. Listen: Secretary of the committee, according to the law to date, who, after the vote on this draft law, would change, could be a minister with grade I or II of university education. You're removing this. And I want to ask, why? Who do you keep in mind? Did any rappers, any mother-in-laws who don't have a degree, have the corresponding grade, and somewhere you want to put him in? Ladies and gentlemen, we are waiting for answers. And we expect the government majority of SYRIZA - ANEL to keep the bar low. "Semen and humble," as one Prime Minister said. You cannot poison the Greek society for five years with insults, with threats, with supposed scandals or existing scandals, and when you arrive at power, follow the infallible, tested, Greek, traditional "strong with the engagement". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and three teachers from the Gymnasia Retina and Lower Milia Pieria. Welcome to Athens and the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003: ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers, as is the case: On 11-2-2016, criminal courtesy, involving the Minister for the Environment of Energy and Climate Change, Mr. Panos Skourletis. On 11-2-2016, criminal court case law, which concerns: a) the former Minister of Development, Mikhail Chrysochoidis, and b) the former Minister of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change, etc. Georgios Papaconstantinou, Evangelos Livirato and Ioannis Manatis. With confidence in the softness of Mr Manda's character to defend SYRIZA for the previous issue, and not to put it in place, he will be taking the floor again for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u187	I don't want to, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u188	You don't want to. Thank you very much. Mr. Andreas Xanthos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. No one doubts that we are at a difficult and critical turning point, not only for the government, but for the country, for society and for Europe itself. What is obviously needed is seriousness by the political forces, an alternative plan for how, given our contractual obligations, we can manage more equitablely the burdens of the agreement and create interventions with a compensatory positive social role and how - above all - we will cause institutional changes in this country that have been pending for decades and which will strengthen the sense of sovereignty, justice and equality in this place. Yesterday, then, we had an important institutional section. The beginning of the end of a regime of lawlessness and immunity, which was dominated by television media and which had created favourable ground for complications, partnerships and political influences, came into being. I am impressed that this intervention, which sets order and rules, which is trying to reorganise this landscape on the basis of European law in force, leads some regulators and Europeans to a provocative attempt to defend themselves in a passionate manner and the opacity and irrationality and unreliability and pity that has existed for decades in this area. In fact, this paradoxical tactic of counter-population in the previous period, which I believe will end yesterday's legislation, is an indication of political irresponsibility which governs several forces of counter-population at this time. In the same paradoxical and irresponsible attitude, the bill on speeding up the government's work, which included the majority of the articles in legislative acts, was tabled in December. This paradoxical tactic, of course, and the need to provide some critical clarification to the institutions has led to a freeze in the process and to the need to promote in this urgent way the act of legislation. As far as the health sector is concerned, the regulations, which are about one fifth of the total articles of the two acts of legislation, concerned rules which were inappropriately time-limited and which, if they were not made by 31 December, would jeopardise the proper functioning of critical public health services. This also concerns the health regions where their current form and geographical distribution have been extended. Of course, in our view, there is a very serious debate here on the administrative and spatial reorganisation of the public health system. We will move in that direction. We want to decentralise responsibilities in the regions, actually have a role of political supervision at regional level of the health system and alleviate the bureaucratic and centralised functioning of the Ministry. There is the problem of the Committee on Health Procurement, which is still a serious reform, which we are preparing for, because the way in which the health supply framework was established in the manner in which the Committee on Procurement was operating, with the Prices Observatory, led to an incredible blockage of every competitive procedure in the health system, led to terrible difficulties in the provision of hospitals, not due to a lack of credit, but because of a bureaucratic and inappropriate system, which, for supplies of even cheap materials, which could be handled on the basis of the cash available to hospitals, was not completed, often insulting the patient's dignity and also the credibility of the health system. It is the question of prolongations of private providers' contracts with EEAS. And there was a six-month extension, forced as well, because all the conventions are now under negotiation. These days it has already been signed by the Ministry of Health. The signature of the Minister of Finance, who is abroad, is also pending. On Monday, we will also have a negotiating committee of the EEAS, which will re-establish the terms and content of all contracts with private providers and, above all, will negotiate the compensation of accurate and innovative medicines and technologies, which have so far been placed in the health system and which have compensated the insurance funds completely uncontrolled. There is the question of paying certain amounts from the EEA to the health regions. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, the EEA Convention has become the primary health care structures. There has been no such thing so far. EEAY gave the public health system and 1/10 of the annual budget as a payment to hospitals for the service of those insured in the RIS. Even 1/10 was not attributed. And here there is a political choice to redirect public funds, public insurance resources, not only to private providers that are complementary and which are obviously obliged to cooperate with them until we increase the efficiency of the public health system, but also to public health and public structures. There is therefore a contract of the EEA with the structures of the EMCDDA and the rural-type health centres, in which medical and laboratory tests, carried out there and increased public primary care revenues, will be compensated to reorganise it and promote a serious reform in this area that has been pending for decades since the establishment of the ESS. There is the question of extending the supply of health centres and primary health facilities of the PES by competitive procedures in place in hospitals, from tenders, either manual or regular, to normalise their supply with health material, with medicines, where problems were actually observed last year. We, therefore, and with an increased subsidy from the state budget that has been made - and we have proved this in the budget debate - but also with the synergy of social security funds, which has already begun to implement both the transfer of funds and the Genoa from the insurance funds to the EEA - prove this, we want to strengthen the functionality, efficiency and effectiveness of the public health system at this time, because we are now moving forward next week and we will have the regulation of the universal coverage of uninsured people. Here we have heard incredible irony, which insults the intelligence mainly of uninsured people, of the two million uninsured people, who know very well that they were helpless and vulnerable at the time of sickness and at the time of the danger to life. Let anyone who wants to go, Mr. Georgiadis or anyone else take a walk to social medicine and pharmacies all over the country. Let him go ask uninsured people, those with very serious illnesses, if they feel that their health system is covering today. Let him go ask the people who served in public hospitals, but who were charged with hospitals, have them sign a debt declaration, and now their debt has been charged to the DUA. So, was that the arrangement for uninsured people? Two joint ministerial decisions were made, after the whole civilized world cried out to us, after the scientific organisations, the humanitarian organizations, since there was literature in valid scientific journals saying that there is a health crisis in Greece and there is health poverty and there is a disaster in the health part, after the World Health Organization required it to be involved as a technical consultant in the country. Only then, when a huge movement of social solidarity had been created, were previous governments forced behind developments to make arrangements that proved to be problematic, which had filters, which had obstacles, which it was difficult, which was afflicting. So that's what we're dealing with. And we think that from yesterday's debate there is a climate of relief in society for this development. And - I conclude, Mr President, so that I do not abuse your tolerance - I would like to point out to Mr Twelfths that I cannot have a picture of the overall government yield on the part of Europe's raising funds to deal with the refugee problem. Our Ministry with a systematic job of months managed to get a budget of EUR 3.3 million from a special European fund, from the ISF, which we proclaimed, became the crisis, and in these days there are hundreds of doctors, nurses, other health professionals and rescuers of the EKA, to support public structures in the five first-host islands, while strengthening the supply of these areas, with medicines and health material. Therefore, speaking that you have not taken one euro from Europe is insulting our intelligence and it turns out that they are merely serving an irresponsible opposition rhetoric.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u190	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u191	In spite of the difficulty of the juncture, ladies and gentlemen, despite the social discomfort, which exists despite the climate of low expectations from many social strata, which continue to be borne by the Memorandum Policy, from cuts and austerity, because it is precisely because most in this country that there is no serious alternative, that there is no alternative political solution, that there is no alternative social plan, beyond what the Government is trying to do, that is to burden them more fairly, to distribute them more fairly and to take societal initiatives, precisely why the citizens continue to trust this government, and that is why the government will endure it and will end up with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", sixteen students and students and two teachers from the 6th Korydallos Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. If I had one reason for what I intended to say today about the amendment that the Government brings, after the speech of the Minister for Health, I have a thousand reasons to refer to this amendment. I would like, firstly, to remind you of the facts and say this, by decision of the Vaggelis of Venizelos, the news director of "MEGA", was appointed for many years by Vaggelis of Venizelos. Also, I would remind you that under the innocent title of the "Friends of Music", who is not so innocent, was the well-known band and the well-known publisher. Last night we were killed here in the House, the world was ruined - and I am right to believe - because some publishers were neither'substantiated' nor'substantially' not willing to make the taxes even the loans charged - and I am talking about official loans - were not paid for them. It's a form of oxymomile. I want to believe - and I speak only with facts, with nothing else - that it was not the right way to direct the Congregation of Music. We all admit, first of all, that the Congregation of Music is a crown of culture. It really had to be. My dear friend, George Votsis, played a fair struggle for the way the plots were violated - I do not want to talk about these stories - and the way it came, which, in fact, only did the public pay and never anyone else. Years he wrote articles that no one counted on how this Hall was paid. Not one, not two, but seven times the Greek taxpayer has paid this function, without any control, so among us. We did call famous bands. I, to tell you my sin, because it was accurate, I went once or twice. He had an incredibly expensive ticket and I can't tell what management it was that he finally threw it out of this mansion, his activity. I want to say yes to culture - I am one of the last to question it - but I believe that the people who took over to make use of this jewelry, this diamond, were not capable, were wrong. And well, the mistake of paying for it is you who do it, but I don't get it. I should like to say correctly - and I would like to say the following - that guarantees have already been made and that the Greek State has paid the Greek State about 59 million so far that we are talking about and are confronted with other discounts from the guarantees that have been made by a Minister of Finance of another party to be the public guarantor. One can say here: there has to be continuity in the state. I didn't say anything, too. It does not, however, prohibit management control, see what exactly happened, how these people have been managing the money for so many years. It never happened. No VAT, no taxes. Incredible things! If anyone reads the proposed amendment, I do not know, but I am not convinced. The EUR 360,000 a year for the wages of an artistic director - and disprove me, Minister, if I am mistaken - seems a great amount. So, what's that artistic director? Why does he have to take that money? Already, at the moment we're talking, it's not 245 million, but with interest it's about 329 million, at the same time you heard what the Minister of Health told you a moment ago. And he said a few words to you. A few heard from the Minister of Health and a few heard about what the people who were the owners of the media were generally doing for twenty - five years. It's not the time either for screaming or doing anything to make. We as Independent Greeks, Minister, are not convinced of this amendment. I believe that this government - because I feel part of it and I say it in love - does not have many aces in her sleeve. One of them is the moral advantage. I feel that I, who was struggling last night to show how canaries were confused with all the dirty stories, that they never did what the fourth power should do, at this time I come to squeeze an amendment that reminds me of the past. I don't want to say any more, nor do I want to take your time. I think it would be wise, Minister, to see this amendment again. I want to think there's no bad intention. I repeat, the Greek taxpayer has paid her seven times this story. After he paid her seven times, he won't tell me anything, just like he won't tell me anything if the state doesn't win this story. Yes, it's culture. I'm telling you I've been watching expensive tickets, so I've been expecting profits from this story, when the world's actually crawling. Look at it. We, as Independent Greeks, love above all fairness and have declared war against interdependence without exceptions. Honestly, I do not believe that you have suspended the war on interlocutory. Perhaps it is urgent, because there have been too many guarantees. I insist on management control. The people who managed the Mansion to account for. If they don't have any assets, justice foresees them too. Look at it. With a lot of love I tell you to think again about whether you should stick to this amendment. We as Independent Greeks will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr Papachristopoulos, for saving time. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras has the floor. Mr Mandas will then be speaking, we will then go to the few minutes of Mr Papapas and Mr Loverdou, and Mr Baltas will answer the amendment to the House for the House, and a request will also be made for Mrs Vaguea, when the time comes and if you approve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u195	We approve, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Kegeroglu, I'll give you the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u199	I will not go into the matter of the ratification of the two acts of legislation because Mr Saridis has been mentioned in detail on the part of the Union of Centres. I too was given the opportunity to place myself on the constitutionality or not of the way in which it was legislated. Indeed, this is not the way in which this House can be debated on the substance. Some provisions of the two acts are useful, but many cannot stand and support them. After that, I will repeat the statement that we in the main body of the law will vote 'PARA'. With regard to the amendments, and the first and second, which Mr Stathakis brings up, it is indeed a problem that has arisen in previous law, with the optimism of the government at that time that it could put justice under way, and it could mobilise the parties concerned and regulate the issue of'red' loans and the question of overdue households. Irrespective of the reasons which led to the tabling of these two amendments, we, Mr President, say that we are voting in favour of them. But there's something else to worry about. We are concerned about the amendment by the Ministry of Culture, and I do not see Mr Baltas being here, who would like to be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u200	Here it is. At some point, for reasons of force majeure, it can go out for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u201	I will, however, stand by this and try to make it available to him on this matter. And what I'm going to say, I don't want to get any misunderstandings. I'm a friend of both classical music and lyric theatre, but in this particular case we have comments and especially important ones. Firstly, as the amendment comes - it has been heard and it is a fact that there are sixty pages of all the provisions, the explanatory statement, the contract - it is an independent bill, for which I have also made a request to the Bureau, Mr President, that it should be accompanied by the report of the Scientific Office of Parliament. And why do we say that? We dominate a contract, essentially at the very heart of private law. The Minister of Finance and two unions went to one notary - I will say on them afterwards - and they signed a contract, which is not even twofold - a well-known legal concept - is unilateral in favour of the Grand Music. So they signed this convention and we are calling on the National Representation to ratify it today. There is no possibility for Parliament to amend the contract signed, Mr President. I would like to point out that. And so it will carry an unbearable burden to the Greek public. So they signed this convention and we are calling on the National Representation to ratify it today. There is no possibility of amending the contract signed, Mr President. I would like to point out that. And so it will carry an unbearable burden to the Greek State. Minister, thank you for coming. I would like to point out this: it is not the property of the Congregated Musician who transfers you and I will explain why. Underneath there is an Foundation, the Statatou Dekozi - Vourou. Has the Ministry checked whether this Foundation, which has been approved by a royal decree, is of a public nature and could not transfer its property or tomorrow, will anyone else come in tomorrow and will be in dispute with the latter, while the state will have made available resources? I remind you of something else that the Chamber may not know. There is also a brother institution, the Vouru Foundation - Boldness - you will know that, Minister - which provides huge work. It maintains the Museum of the City of Athens, which has an international view, has contacts with all the respective museums of the great European and world capitals and has not charged the public with any drachma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u202	Don't say drachma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u203	The inheritor, Evxias, therefore, created an institution for music and an institution for culture, and the assets it had were huge. So we ask ourselves: why has one of them never hit the public door, never taken a drachma, not asked for a single euro? These are all concerns.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u204	So, euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u205	Let, Mr. Papadopoulos, you'd better go to Larissa, if you want, see what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u206	You want me to go? I'm gonna go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u207	I now move on to the substance. This decree, which the institution has established and approved its statute, has not brought us, Mr Minister, to see what it says and whether those who represent it can sign it. Because the Ministry of Finance was restricted to bringing in a practical board of directors and saying that the board of directors approves the signing of the contract. Was it within the institution's purpose or not? I repeat that I'm both a friend of classical music and a lyric theater. But I can't stand here and say anything else. It is invoked and appealed to the government that it has a valuation of EUR 800,000, 000, that this is a strong advantage and solvency. Can I say something? Why didn't you make an international competition, see what value this would have? The Concert Hall of Music with its facilities is a special purpose building. Will there be in Greece, with a limited audience, such as the friends of Megaron, the possibility of investing 800,000 euros from a private person? Oh, no. Therefore, any version of the value is accounted for. May I suggest anything else? As you know, there is the Metropolitan Opera of New York, there is the Wagner Foundation, there are too many important and rich institutions all over the world, which might either take over the management of the Concert Musical Concert or cooperate with it and exalt it. What do we do now? Is that a resolution? We say the state is coming and says he has given guarantees, guarantees without solvency on the part of the clubs. What's he doing now? It gives me an immunity, too, very nice. We do not know whether there was good or bad administration, but a immunity is given to the previous management boards as well, since the state is a pioneer. And we say, well, we saved those who might be called to account for the management, but the state took it. And what will the state do? Will he be exploited by the Congregation Musician? No, he states his inability. It tells us 'I stay back'. It says that it leaves it on an administrative board, which will by a majority be members designated by the government. Remind the National Theatre, a recent example, Minister? You have been tempted to find a solution and we do not know whether or not a solution was finally made to the choices made by the governments concerned. The Concert Hall of Music and not the Dekozi - Vouros Foundation, created a pharaonic situation within Athens and finally took an elitist character. I don't want to go into any more details. Today the state is coming to say 'all good, all good, I'm budgetaryly burdening the country'. Irrespective of whether the explanatory statement on budgetary neutrality says, the money has been disbursed and more will be disbursed. Because here we did not see if there were any other debts. Three months ago, the Government proposed a provision of law and enabled them to operate without tax and insurance information, which means that there are public, tax and insurance debts. We also voted for this amendment because it enabled workers to be paid. Minister, I'm going through there. But the banners say they are seven months unpaid. Where'd that money go? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] It is assumed that such a form, pharaonic, institution will be injurious forever, will be passive to the Greek state, which takes such a risk today, and in two years' time, those who remain in this Chamber will be called upon to vote again. Following that, we ask you to come back and bring back a report from the Scientific Council, withdrawing the amendment, to see if it is a joint institution. Can it be transferred? Can't he be transferred? What's behind it? Do we do a hole in the water? Secondly, if you do not do so, we are obliged to say that we will not vote either positively or negatively. We will declare our presence for one single reason. We are sympathetic to the suffering suffered by many, the hundreds of workers from the administrative boards, which you are now exempting, and we want to maintain a little hope that these people, who are now a year unpaid, will be rewarded for their trouble and hard work. Did you weigh that to the government? I do not want to go any further, because then I may have to talk about the scope of the scandal and it is not the right time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Now, three minutes, I don't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u210	It's a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u211	I know and have consulted Mr Kaklamani, and I agree with him. I don't know if I'm gonna make it, though, because I have a series of issues. And I'm starting with a personal matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u212	But tell us how much you want not to complain about the bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u213	I'm not complaining. First of all, I appreciate you and I love you. Mr President, for me and for other Members of this House, there is a very serious personal issue of morality and political order. And I am addressing all Members of this House, whether or not we agree or disagree, regardless of our degree of agreement or disagreement. There are colleagues who are in parties from which we have a great deal of political distance and our conflicts are a daily phenomenon, but here the issues of morality and honesty are ahead of us, Mr President. To clash with a man means you take him as an opponent. So yesterday we raised our arguments on an issue of thorny, which, as I anticipated - and I will be entitled - to this morning's agenda of Greece, with all the serious issues, went away, and which is completely unprecedented in this Chamber once or twice a week to disorientate. I am referring to the issue of permits. We said our opinions. The vote has been taken. The House completed its work. This morning, a newspaper, the newspaper "AUTHY", has this title: "Counsellors of Interface" and four photos, one of which is mine. After the previous meeting of a similar government amendment on the same subject, the next day it had five photos, one of which was one with your President, ladies and gentlemen of the Central Association, and again mine. The title was: "The servants of interlocutory". First of all, this is journalistic plagiarity. Secondly - and this is more political - this is a method known by security, in the years when security was before us and was chasing us. I am referring to Juda, to the post-election period and during the civil war, where your opinion, your own, Mr President, perhaps, was not dealt with as a criterion for right or wrong, but your motive was being considered, because you said it and who is behind you. We want to believe that insurers are in the past, in terms of their involvement with politics. They're doing their job. They're doing another job. These methods, however, cannot concern Parliament, its conflicts and its agreements. Because there is another reason to confront one view and conflict with it because you disagree more with exiling it into the outside world and condemning it to be out of politics. Because what they write here is the attempt to target people. And they're responsible for her. This punctuality and this method of insurance must be a past for all of us, wherever we see it, from whatever printed matter or the media, by any person. We must criticise her too hard to marginalise and not to bother us any other time. Mr President, I am sorry for the extent of my position on this personal - political issue. I hope you have the understanding that suits the intensity of the matter. And let me say for two minutes my views on policy issues relating to the draft law. First of all, we're going to discuss the agricultural issue here in a little while. I think the debate will be a full-fledged one and its link with the mobilisations today gives us the opportunity to speak, knowing they hear us. And not only do they listen to us, but on this subject people are mobilized. Therefore, as a parliamentary representative, I am reluctant to say what the Democratic Integration will say in an hour's time. On the issue of NATO, which was raised today, Mrs Gennamas yesterday with her position asked for information. In my denture at night I said that the level of information was left to the Minister of National Defence and the Government. We, whatever level that is, want information and we will participate. At the meeting I had with the Minister outside of Athens, he told me that he would call for the defence officials of the parliamentary parties. I replied positively that I will come. Since the seat then, contrary to the New Democracy, he said that this meeting is going to take place today. It didn't happen. This should not be delayed. Our briefing must be quick. We're here to participate. It is a very serious matter, but it is very serious. With regard to what Mr Phile said about refugee immigration yesterday, I think the Minister must forget that. As much as he remembers his students years and theatres, he must now realize that another is his role. He's a minister, he's a MP and he has to be serious. And it must be serious, because what it says about an issue that the government has provoked and exceeded the limits of the country, Europe - it is an international issue - are being recorded. He said nonsense yesterday. He'll have to rethink it. That is not the case for a national Parliament, nor is it a form of political controversy. As far as the subject of the amendment is concerned - because, otherwise, Mr Koutsoukos and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, but also yesterday and today, we have been completely covered by the democratic co-responsibility of her parliamentary representative yesterday. We don't change our minds. However, Mr Koutsoukos said something today and I saw that the government does not react and it is her fault. I expect the Minister of Culture to react now. With your intervention, Minister, you are transferring to the public sector - not the narrow public, of course - the supervision of the operation of the Megaron, which is not, as in the past, mere care, more. So Mr Koutsoukos tells you that, because things are being heard - and our rapporteur is right - it is very reasonable that the opposition asks you, Minister - you have not now told you to do so, but to commit to doing so - the balance sheets and all the evidence that you have and that the address of the Mansion has sent you. In the Committee on Culture, You must accept this. It's not hard for you. It's your obligation, too. If we ask you for official information under the Rules of Procedure of the House in an organised manner, you have no way of avoiding it. But do you have the mood to avoid it? I guess not. So, please, because we have a vote in a few minutes, take a stand on this. It is a simple matter, and I think that our position is very clear. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u214	Thank you. Mr Stathakis, Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u215	Allow me, because we've spotted something. In an extension to update the elements of the old Katseli laws - as you know, we are extending until 3 May following a joint request from both borrowers and banks, which do not have time to produce the relevant papers provided for by the law - there is a small subcategory of those who have applied at the last minute, near Christmas, who are not entitled to the current extension or rather not covered by this extension. Where there was a month in the law, two months were given to be fully assimilated to the vast majority of borrowers, who, with this amendment today, are fully covered. So this subcategory of those who applied in practical December before the old law was closed, is likened to all the other categories of old law. In other words, we've been making the extension from a month to two in the relevant law. This is what we are improving with this legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u216	Please, the legislative improvement to be filed in the Minutes and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, I shall now refer to the amendments, and I have to give some answers from yesterday's sitting. Firstly, Mr. Dendias, when going up to the Step he said that we should not offer Metaxas - I do not want to be tiring with the issue of silk, but I want to give a reply to Mr. Dendia - to the neo-nazis of the Golden Dawn. And he mentioned and said we're giving them Cholacoglou. Really, Mr. Teddy, what are you talking about? Are you talking about the old inhabited Prime Minister or the again Tsolacoglou, Samara's best friend? The "tree" of the New Democracy is very great and you know that we know many and many of your peculiarities and many of your weaknesses. Also, you do not have the moral right, so to speak, to speak, because your offices are devoid of the photograph of the son of the dosimeter Prime Minister John Rally, George Rally, who was the Head of the New Democracy. You have relied on the economic politiques - and I shall refer to the Committee on German allowances - whatever the name of your party, the Right, or the Greek Alarm, was either a People's Party, either an EPE or a New Democracy. So you are the supporters of the Germans and of the then and today. That is what Mr Teddy is about, so that he does not represent us here in his well-known two-coast tactics known as the Rothchild lawyer - his congratulations - the honourer and not give us lessons. He could say a great apologies, not to us for the suffering each of us and his family suffered, to give a great apologies to the Greek people. As far as Mr Pafile is concerned, who exaggerated the speaker and the Golden Dawn from morning to the systemic 'MEGA', I, Mr Pafile, do not have the opportunity to speak at the 'MEGA', do not call me 'MEGA'. You are the rebel and the populist, the folk fighter are calling "MEGA". To transfer to the Hall, which you know, but more about the world he hears us, that in November 2012, when he was fighting for the prerequisites, I go out for a moment to the perimeter and what to see? I see Mr. Palhei with whom? With Mr. Stournara. And just yesterday - the various photographers here who are taking the various insurgents have not done so yet - I see for a quarter Mr Vorides speaking and being pleased with Mr Pafile. Didn't he hurt him, and he didn't mind Mr. Paphie that Mr. Voridis was photographing with the picture of Papadopoulos, or was he a best man with Jean Marie Leppen, or was he walking around with the axes, and was Golden Dawn bothering him? Let me remind you one last thing, Mr President, that it is this party which has voted in favour of giving tax information to the Music Concert. So who are they talking to? The party which is essentially an economic business and a 'urban' of the New Democracy? With regard to the amendments, Mr President, I would like to say: first of all, for the amendment by the Grand Musician, when will the Greek people pay the particulars, the vits and the artistic quests of the forgived Lambraki or of every one of the Psychras? To close the Concert Hall of Music and to remain a deaf, so that the Greek people can go and see it as a monument to the remulsion and the clipping of post-population! Because it is a scandal that lasts for many years, starting with, as previous speakers have said, from the Equality Foundation. And our mind goes straight to Constantine Karamanlis, the old one. To close, then, and not give a single cent for the Congregation of Music! As far as the amendments are concerned, Mr Stathakis, you know what 'home' means and first and second and third and in no way number! So you have the sensitivity. Why don't you do this, which is very socialist? Don't laugh! The common sense and common sense are missing from the government. Instead of giving an extension of one month to get the houses of the Greeks and the loans to the various funds, why not impose on the banks the price they will give to the funds to give it to the borrower? And you know how the borrower will respond. In Greece, there is the solidarity of the family in the broadest sense. He'll run and pay! You made them - and the Right and the Left - not to be able to pay and lose their homes. I shall conclude, Mr President, because there are already battles on the streets of Athens. Already the heroic Cretan farmers are fighting and treating mercenaries of the tyrannical regime, which is the same tyrannical regime as the previous one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u219	Please, Mr. Pappa, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u220	I shall conclude, Mr President. So these farmers give a fair fight for bread, but at the same time with the Greek flags they also give a fair fight for freedom. So to those Greek farmers today come to Athens and to those who have not been able or prevented from coming, I have only to say this: Good freedom. People - Farmers - Nationalism!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u222	I will be extremely brief in order to facilitate the process that will follow. After expressing my personal deep enthusiasm for yesterday's event with the officers of the Navy, I would like to make just two - three points. Did you only give me three minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u223	Secondary is three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u224	I haven't even spoken in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u225	You've got five minutes, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u226	I think there is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in an environment and a situation that is determined by too many heterople forces, by uncertain factors, by a liquidity that cannot affect our country as well. We can only be ready and vigilant about what is happening around us and in our region, but also wider. I say this because, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore the fact that, once again, at global level, there are signs of restoring periods and global crisis elements, we cannot see that in this particular area of the South-East Mediterranean once again there are conditions and problems - I would say - which may create further issues, even if all this process and the descent in NATO's Aegean Forces are done under specific conditions and conditions. We have to look at developments. We have to look very carefully over the next few days. However, I would like to say that all Parliament's wings must keep low tone, monitor developments, not rush, and be informed as we need to be informed, because these moments require both coolness and wisdom, so that we can get closer to things. I would like to say that there is no doubt that in the specific issue that we are discussing, namely the ratification of the MAGPs, to a very large extent, there is an agreement that many of these provisions are provisions which solve one or another, but at the same time - and I think the Minister for Health mentioned in particular, but also to the Commission, all the ministers and the Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Minister for Finance - give a policy signal because many of these provisions - not all - are elements of the government's legislative initiative to speed up the government's work. I think it is quite clear - I should like to recognise, if you want to make mistakes and inadequacies and others - that everyone in this Chamber recognises very well that the legislative procedure initiated by the government before the holidays has been interrupted as it was interrupted. I do not want to draw any conclusions at the moment or say other things, because what has become clear was a stand on the part of the Anti-Population, which I do not think at least can claim to have helped to move this process forward, even if it recognised that many provisions were in a positive direction. So I would like to ask that, when we talk about it, all the truth and all the reality that has evolved. I'll say two - three things, and I'll stop. I mean - because it has been mentioned here many times in relation to immigration - once again by this Step forward that we are proud and we must be proud of everyone in this country, because Greece has given examples of solidarity and humanity. First of all, the inhabitants of our islands, the volunteers, but also the forces of the port, all the public services gave to these people afflicted and persecuted by wars, samples of letters of solidarity and humanity. They have given the direction and perspective of a European policy on this issue. And it is not true that we have done nothing about the collection of funds or nothing. I would just like to mention one thing that the people who have dealt with this issue know about. We already have two funds, which concern immigration policy and extend their grant over five years. Only from the Asylum, Migration, Integration Fund, which has a total amount of EUR 270 million, of which EUR 20 million relates to actions for legal immigration, have already committed EUR 88 million from the competent agency to cover the reimbursement costs of 2015-2017. I only mention one clue. There are many other elements which show that there has been a very systematic work on immigration policy. But we are already on the next day, in other circumstances, with another picture, and I think we should all understand and contribute to this effort by the government, our country should play an important role with these principles, principles of solidarity and humanism, on this issue. Secondly and finally, because I do not want to talk about other issues that have been closed yesterday in the House and have opened up an important road to finally move the process of licensing television stations in a legitimate way and because I have already exhausted my time: It made me a very big impression only one thing and I'm done with it. I will read to you exactly what Mr Stamatis said in his speech yesterday - because he has given me a very big impression and I would like to comment on it politically and not personally, Mr Stamatis, as you can see - in relation to the political developments in recent years: and when he says - what does he mean by the government? Who's talking about a complication? Be careful, the story is now written, but read later and will not be long to reveal the complexity in its true dimension. Who and how many have dropped the Samara government? Who and how did a party get drunk, which three years ago had 3% and thirteen components, to take place within three years 36%? When I asked him “they got drunk?” he replied:“We will see these. Don't be in a hurry. History is now written, but read later." I will only make one point and come down from this Step. Listen, Mr Stamatis and ladies and gentlemen of the counter-population which you have ruled for many decades, makes you a very big impression - and you cannot yet realize it and understand it - how a people at a particular historical juncture was able and had the power to make a different choice that, despite all the difficulties, despite social discomfort, still continues to support it. You still can't dig it and all your logic and all your politics and all your analysis, this nucleus has. So don't look in this place for complications or drunkenness. The people's mandate gave us this opportunity and we do everything we can in very difficult conditions to honour it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u229	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u230	For the stars! On the subject we are discussing, Mr President. For the bill. I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u231	I mean, your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u232	It's a prototype. I haven't spoken at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u233	Okay. That's why I'm asking you. Don't tell me about stars.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u234	What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u235	What were you supposed to say? If you have a personal issue, if you want to place yourself. It makes sense. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u236	We don't have that kind of thing. Politics we are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u237	How much time do you want, Mr. Paphie? Normally, it's three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u238	As much as I'm entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u239	Secondary is three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u240	I haven't been in the first place yet. Are you telling me about dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u241	The Secretariat informs me that you have spoken for fourteen minutes. How much time do you want? I'll give you five minutes. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u242	First of all, we want to welcome today's farmers' mobilisations, call on the workers and other peoples to join them, isolate those who are trying to promote - from wherever they come - their mobilisations and call them tomorrow afternoon at the PAME rally, which is more pragmatic and more organized demonstration of solidarity with farmers, but also in the popular spheres as well. I would like to begin with the amendment concerning the Music House. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution for the following reasons. First of all, the state is a guarantor for the loan of the Manoros. He'll pay anyway, whether he closes or doesn't close. There were some discussions about how much he owes, which the Greek people pay for. It's over 300 million. There is an estimate, as has been said - we are certainly not appreciated - that its value is around 990 million. The second thing we want to say is that the money invested by private individuals to build and operate has been repaid and will be paid multiplely by the public. So don't talk about - in or out of introductory words - charities. We do not agree to grant the free use of the Mansion for another 30 years to the OMMA, even if it has a majority of the public. Why don't we agree? Because the Palace will continue to operate under the unacceptable conditions it operates today, for example by imposing a rent on public bodies such as the Athens State Orchestra. In other words, it operates under the so-called privatization criteria. And because here we hear things, at last, put a limit on them. Nothing will provide this urban state, even on better terms? Nothing, not fair to those who don't at least have? That's what we're trying to do, not because we think the character can change. Here comes some yapes, nopes who talk with numbers, and don't know that behind the numbers people are hiding and people's misery. And they're denounced on top of Tomsen that he's cynical. What will it be? He's a representative of the IMF. With blood they feed, the workers' blood. What do they feed on? With their work alone? Thirdly, it is the question of workers. There will be wage cuts without guaranteeing the stability of work. What do we say? What's our proposal? Directly to go to the public in the form of a legal person governed by public law, to enable public bodies to make the use of very good and modern facilities, including all public workers and offering mass access to the public layers throughout their activities. We were fighting this before and we were constantly projecting it, namely that those who have to be able not only to have access - because we know the prices of tickets and the rest - but also to have free access to popular layers. That is why we are voting 'at present' in the amendment. I did not want to talk about other issues, such as, for example, the issue of NATO that is critical, huge and a dangerous development, which we will find very quickly in front of us. We analyzed them yesterday. I just wanted to respond to the arguments made by the Nazis of the Golden Dawn. You see, Goebbels has been a god, as they had Hitler and all the nazi criminals all the years. And now you know what happens to them? They try to disguise it, not because they don't believe it, to appear as nationalists and when you reveal them - not to say that you stir them up - about what they hide from inside, then resort to the well-known method of mud, slander, etc. This is neither personal nor I care - so as not to use the word 'climbing' and insulting women, but it is used - if they say that I was talking to Stournara, with one or the other. These are important issues and show the weakness of the arguments. But in fact, who are they talking to? "Glory and honor to the Hieses and to the battalions" is their main slogan. Yes or not? Who were the battalists? Partners of the Germans. Who are their political ancestors? They're going to deny Cholacoglu now and they're playing ball with New Democracy. It was theirs, wasn't it? They were their ancestors, weren't they? And since they also talked about finances, we should see who came out after the Occupation: The black marketers, the battalions, those who also took off the teeth of the executed communists and fighters and sold them, those who blackmailed them through the cooperation they had with the German people and ate entire properties so that people could not be executed and became unbuilt. They're theirs. They're their political descendants. Not to continue for the junta, not to continue for the "Karfis", not to continue for the murder of Lambraki. Those scumbags were back then. The parastate was all theirs. We're giving it to them! I'm saying this so that young people know these things and don't get carried away by various cheap populisms. They say the JRC is an economic business. The Greek people have known us for a hundred years. He knows how much the JRC and the MPs get and how most live. He lives them every day. We don't have to give an answer about that. However, who do call them? The people who were chasing the strangers, blackmailing them and getting them money so they wouldn't get burned? All of this was revealed. The ones who sold them clothes that were collected are supposed to help the poor Greeks? All of this has been revealed. Who? The night porters? Where are most of them? Not to say names. I don't want to say names. Who's saying that? The ones who run at night and at night's business? Are they talking about such things? And finally, because we must not forget, at the last Golden Dawn gathering, after having had the meeting with the German Nazis, hailed by Michael Nazis, they were calling out an amazing political slogan: "Cecury and fire to the red dogs"! That's what they were yelling at. Now they're calling it. But, you know, what you're saying we understand, because you're being taken mad at Stalin and the communists. Because they pissed you off. Because they put the hammering flag up and your leader killed himself. That's who you dream of. You can never digest it that it was crushed, headed by the Soviet Union and the struggle of peoples, the inhumane, the darkest the history of humanity, which is the story of the Naziism that you believe in, but you are chickens and you do not say so, to take your responsibilities here and come to propaganda. Because you're afraid of the people, and you're doing well, and you're afraid of him, because he'll send you where you're worth it, in the trash can of history.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u243	Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, we would like to deplore the incidents that are taking place today at the Ministry of Rural Development with the farmers and call on the government, even now, to sit down and see the farmers' demands and at least to come to the debate so that it can come to a consultation with the farmers. He was fine when Prime Minister Tsipras was up on the tractors. Now that he's off the tractors, he doesn't want anyone else to go up. All these lies that every political force tells the Greek people are paid for before it closes even six months. This applies to all political forces. It took six months to reveal the lies to every government that is in trouble with the crisis and tried to manage this crisis, unfortunately unsuccessfully. I wanted to say that I read today from a newspaper - which in the name of the Renewable Left once had the respect of all, indeed, of the entire political spectrum and citizens regardless of beliefs, and now has become a Stalinist - the 'Bad' of the party that governs us, the 'AGEI', where I saw targeted me together with others as an advocacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u245	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u246	I'm not even a lawyer, Mr. Kegeroglu. I'm an attorney without a degree. Since yesterday, in this Chamber we criticised the former regime, we criticised the government's loose, non-existent and hypocritical attitude that, to my mind, closes the door to the complexion, at the same time as Mr. "Suslov" accepts canals from the back door of Maximos, at the same time as we make concrete proposals, it is only a title of honor to see with these vulgar lies in "Book", again, my face on its front page. I hope, however, for the sake of both the seriousness that this newspaper has lost, but also for the sake of the country in fact - because only a normal political climate can bring us out of the crisis - this catastrophe and the ruling party but also its instrument to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr Theochari. Mrs. Bajas, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u248	Yes, because unfortunately I couldn't be on time, Mr. President. I'm sorry. Thank you very much. I will begin with the designation of “AGE” for “Award”. Pleasant and honored "HAY"! We didn't think it'd be "Awards".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u249	It's against "AGE"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u250	No, "PRAVDA" is a historic newspaper. What's down there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u251	Oh, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u252	Because we have all watched a rabies attempt at never getting this licence, so I would like to say this. We all saw it clearly, that was the rabies effort not to get there. Yesterday an amendment was passed which opens the way and I hope that this authorisation will be carried out properly and, as it should be, for the sake of this place. I shall then speak about the amendment concerning the Concert Hall. I see these things connected, because in the Music Hall, the OMMA, after having dominated a well-known band for many years in the media, he wanted to dominate in the field of culture, because the cultural area is very important and can penetrate the world in its own way. So he did. For too many years, we, the people of culture, have experienced a bad domination from the area of the Concert Music. What didn't pass through the Congregation of Music was not valiant, it wasn't good, it wasn't serious. We were stigmatized by those who did not participate in the events of the Congregation of Music. So I believe that the Congregation of Music and the OMMA is hated in the many worlds. He offered some things, but he did not offer the real culture. The main culture took place at the Municipal Regional Theatres, in the province, in the small atrocities that were set up with a struggle and moved on to the theatrical and cultural landscape in our country. So I disagree with this story. I expressed it another time before it was tabled. I don't think we should have taken over this story of the Congregated Musician. I believe that this property should be exploited, given for use and there should be public revenue from it. Of course, this regulation enables the public to have the majority on the board of directors. However, I believe that for thirty years the concession of use has been unacceptable because it commits this huge asset, which now takes the public over all its burdens, for a specific way. That's not supposed to happen. I've asked for it. I've been begging the Minister. At least let the concession become three years, as long as the duration...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u253	There's no concession, Mrs. Bagena.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u254	How isn't there? There's a 30-year concession. I saw it in the contract, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u255	There isn't. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u256	There is. I have the contract. We're talking about thirty years of concession. We're giving the use to the OMMA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u257	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u258	So I want this to change. I will vote against this. It must be at least three years, as much as the duration of the board of directors is, because at some point the state may want this place to do something else to sell it to the need. At the moment that we have no money to give for the humanitarian crisis and we are currently giving EUR 13,400.00 from the State Budget for the emergency needs of the Megaron, I am not voting for this. At a time when we cannot make and give 300,000 euros, to grant ten sufferings of young actors from 30,000 euros to each, to do something for young children, while we are not giving the local theatres little money, we cannot give out of the State budget about 13 million euros for the emergency needs of the Megaron. He says pay the workers. Somewhere else there are workers. What kind of workers are they? What wages are they? What kind of people should we not always pay them? I don't personally have the people who work in the Hall, but because I know, I've lived through this story for twenty years, I disagree, even though I support the government with all my soul in everything. Also, for farmers' mobilisations, I would like to say because it concerns me, that we are with farmers but with real farmers. We need this scenery to be cleared up, too. I give you my vote in writing on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, too. The Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr. Aristides Baltas, has the floor and we are finishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I too have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u261	But you didn't ask me for the reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u262	I asked him, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u263	By me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u264	I asked Mr Kaklamani for him, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u265	Well, not from me. I can hear it now. Here, Minister, you have the floor and we are finishing with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u266	I shall speak very briefly, very dryly and very closely within the agenda and the amendment on the Megaron. I would not speak for the second time today, but there are still misunderstandings about what this is, and what we are doing right now. I'll mention two principles to see which spirit I want to talk to. The first principle is that this is not a story. The House is not called upon to legislate on what history is or to transfer passions and criticisms of the past to today. The House is called upon to deal with a problem, of course, by examining historical data, but also by examining what constitutes the problem. The second principle is that those who criticise a piece of legislation or a proposal, whether from the government or from the opposition, should know what they are talking about, read the report and the content of the bill and on this basis discuss it. I'm starting with Mrs. Baguea. Mrs Vageias has not understood, despite the many discussions we have actually had, that the original OMMAs, the Athens Concert Hall, are now with this legislation the originals of a public institution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u267	That's what I said. We don't need an institution yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u268	It's like talking about the National Theatre, like talking about the Lyceum, like talking about such things. In this sense, there is no concept of giving the public to the OMMM for thirty years, as we say in means, management or any attribute. OMMA is now an organization supervised by the Ministry of Culture, such as all other organisations supervised by the Ministry of Culture. In the 30 years concerned a historical remnant of the press that when the initial contract was made, the parties were the public and the Association of Friends of Music. This Association has contributed a piece of property to build the Mansion. The public put on what he put on and it's his old story how much he paid for it and so on. However, the thirty years concern exclusive rights in the Association of Friends of Music, namely the following two: firstly, to keep the area of the Music Library for these thirty years, which also has free access there, and, secondly, to be able in cooperation with the board of directors, now to produce some agreements per year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u269	No, Minister, excuse me. That's not what the contract says! It goes without saying: 'Third years of concession'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u270	It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u271	But he doesn't say what you say!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u272	I can explain what he will say 'thirty years'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u273	The contract here clearly says 'thirty years of concession'. There you go!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u274	It's useless to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u275	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u276	He says: '... property for a period of 30 years...'. Thirty years of concession! That's another thing you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u277	Try to understand what I'm saying and we'll find it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u278	I understand very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u279	You don't find this on SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u280	Find them PASOK and New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u281	From that point on, Mr. Koutsuko, to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u282	Please, Mr. Kutsuko! PASOK brought these. You accept graceful provisions!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u283	There you go!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u284	Please don't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u285	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u286	Out of Venizelos' office...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u287	Please, Mrs. Vageia and Mr. Kutsuko! Please! Are you interrupting the Minister and having a conversation with each other? Please! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't write anything in the Minutes. Minister, excuse me. What's this now? Interactive discussion and interrupting the Minister? I don't understand, I mean! Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u288	Thank you. First, to Mr. Koutsuko. Mr. Kutsuko, I hope you remember that there was a PASOK Minister named Papaconstantinou. Papaconstantinou did this: Because he was a third-court public in loans entered into by the Concert Hall of Music in particular - read the particulars and, if you like, I tell you the numbers - he did the public front-end. From there on, all the loans are entered in the budget. It's over and over! Whether we wish or not, these loans to the European Investment Bank and to the National Bank are paid by the Greek State. We don't want to. He's paying for it. In this sense, we are doing nothing but to recognise, as a matter of principle, the fact that the state is undergoing a constant public obligation at this level. In relation to Mr Loverdos, I obviously fully agree. We have no problem bringing the balance sheets, the accounts and the others of the House. Thirdly, to Mr Georgiadis. Mr. Georgiadis told us earlier that we were plundering to talk about strife in relation to the Palace, and that we are now coming to incorporate in our own law what Mr. Tasoulas had done. There's a delicate difference. And the difference in these things is usually judged in detail. What's the difference? The previous board of directors, as it was intended to regulate Mr. Tasoula, held a ratio of six to five in favour of the public and the five in favour of the group "Friends of Music", with a specific right to practical veto of the Association of Friends of Music. In this sense, the passage to the public was lacking because it allowed a private body the possibility of exercising political veto on proposals from the board of directors. This is abolished. The eleven members of the board of directors are now three, which, for historical reasons, suggests the group called "Friends of Music" - eleven minus three - and eight government, two of which from the Ministry of Finance and six from the Ministry of Culture. In this sense, the board of directors is balanced and the cultural character of the Congregation appears to have been shown, which, by a majority, has members designated by the Ministry of Culture. This Board of Directors pursues a policy in the same way as policy-makers of all supervised bodies. And in this sense, it opens a new page for the Palace, because it is fully past the ownership and supervision of the public. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The next item, which was a difference again with the 'Tasula regulation', is the following: All workers, without any job losses, are included in the single wage. In addition, the managers who received “flash” fees so far, with the draft law we submit, receive maximum remuneration, as is the case everywhere, that of the Secretary-General. So there is no super-prerogative - let me say that - to the directors, the managers of the Concert Musical Concert. Approximately that's the content. The main incision is that the whole Music Hall passes to the public. The other solution we would have, if you wish, which we consider to be tragic, and which is why we have not proposed anything, would be to let it collapse, while at the same time paying the loans we have to pay for the European Investment Bank and the National Bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u289	We'll sell it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u290	From there on, the further course of the Grand Musician in a wider spirit - and here I would like to agree with Mrs Vaguea - will take into account other dimensions of culture that can fit there, always with emphasis on classical music of high quality. But there are other kinds of expressions of all kinds of music, theatre and high-quality dance that can be hosted there. And from there on, there will be programming contracts, as usual with the eight supervised bodies, while we will see what we as a state grant - I will say a word on this - and what the House can find as resources, sponsorships, tickets, its own programming contracts and so on, so that it can be fully viable. As far as grants are concerned, I'll say a simple number. In 2009 the State grant to the essentially private body, which was the Palace, was around 19,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u291	Scandal!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u292	Last year, with our own government, it was 2.8 million euros. This is a big difference which illustrates the difference in the economic sense that once existed and the closeness that existed at the time. But we said here that we did not discuss what was happening in the past. Anyone who wants to do in the history of Megaron at any level, whether financial or power-driven, or how Christos Lambrakis or anyone else in it was involved in it. However, this is not the subject of legislation, as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr Balta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u294	Mr. President, excuse me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u295	What do you want, Mr. Amyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u296	I beg your pardon, Mr President, but we have just asked the Minister a number of questions and we have not received an answer. May I remind the Minister of the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u297	Oh, no! Why would that be?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u298	Please! The conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u299	What's wrong with you? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u300	We're not dissatisfied! Read it. It's easy! If you read them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u301	I'm reading good! Avoid answering?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u302	Read and talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u303	I asked you how sustainability is guaranteed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u304	Page 7, Mr. Amyras!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Amyras, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u306	What sustainability?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u307	Who do you say? Panathinaikos' court! What are we talking about? We're talking about the organization of the Congregation of Music!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Amyras!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u309	So to not find ourselves again in a black hole, I asked how sustainability would be guaranteed for the next few years, since the Greek State will continue to premium, as the Minister has now told us, with about 3,000,000 euros a year!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u310	Do not do that, Mr President, because we will all stand up and speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Amyras, the conversation is that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u312	I beg your pardon, Mr President, but yesterday as a parliamentary representative I asked for the floor for five hours on this matter and I was not given the floor. So we are coming to the debate today and I ask for some clarification. That's the point of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u313	The debate is based on an agreement between the parties. The Minister said that there would be any programme and would close the debate after hearing everyone. So when we close the conversation and ask questions again...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u314	That's right, Mr. President. But part of the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u315	Excuse me. However, you must know that there are timely questions for Members and then a timely question on the agricultural issue. Do you realize that if we follow...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, I understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u317	...this procedure, Mr. Mandais will also ask for the floor - he's right - as is Mr. Brutsis and, of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u318	I understand it, and I respect it. Mr President, in order to weigh our vote, we simply need a number of critical elements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u319	Of course! Deal!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u320	It's very simple. Is there a viability plan or not? What is the annual cost of sustainability?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u321	Minister, if you want to reply, it is good. If you do not want, we think that the debate is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u322	Mr. President, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u324	Excuse me, Mr. Comrade. Also...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u325	But this procedure is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u326	Yeah, but here we have to do a good job. I requested the balance sheets, accounts and reports of the sworn accountants.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u327	What can we do? I am obliged to ask the Minister if he wishes to give the floor to one or two Members and to answer or finish the procedure here. As far as I can see, you want us to finish. So the process is over. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u328	So let's not know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u329	Again, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u330	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u331	Finish it, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u332	So, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u333	Excuse me, but we can't!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u334	Why should we listen to him again, Mr. President? We heard him!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u335	So, Mr President, I will be done in twenty seconds, and I will be back in the form of my questions and if the Minister wants to answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u336	He doesn't want the Minister to answer, he told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u337	She doesn't want to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u338	Yeah. He thinks it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u339	Does he not want to respond to the annual operating and maintenance costs? Does he not want to answer whether there is a sustainability plan so that we do not come back to one, six months in a year, to give back some facilities to the Congregation of Music?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u340	He considers that the whole procedure is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u341	She doesn't want to answer those?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u342	Please! He thinks the process is over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, I'm here too! I've asked to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u344	On what issue, Mr Kegeroglu, are you asking why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u345	Mr President, in the agreement you referred to several times, the Bureau included an intervention by Mrs Bagena, whose speech has been given and one of my single minutes. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u346	Look, Mrs. Bagena was a normal speaker, who asked, because she could not speak on time, to speak a little later. That was the point, not intervention. Because, with intervention, everyone would talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u347	So if the Minister responds, I would like to ask a question to the Minister and I.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u348	If the Minister wants to say so, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u349	Getting out of here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u350	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u351	In addition, Mr President, listen, we are discussing a very serious issue. It has been denounced as the other side of the interlocutory than yesterday's, the second pillar. He was just condemned by a member of the government. Here we are experiencing a parliamentary paradox: Mr Baltas is bringing an amendment, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u352	What's the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u353	Yes, I also come to a question, Mr. Manda. A little patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u354	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u355	It therefore brings an amendment for which the majority has not been put, whether or not it supports it. One government partner said she was not supported. The rest of us said that, yes, we are positive because of the workers, but we want balance sheets, we want one, we want the other and we want clarification on the assumptions that have been made. And the question is specific: will the majority be placed, to tell us whether or not it supports the amendment? And for Mr Baltas, in Article 3, he says that for all important decisions it required a majority of nine to eleven, which means a veto of three. And before replying to Mrs Vaguea, she said other things. Is that true or isn't that true? Is the Minister lying or not lying when he tells us that he has the majority of the Greek state?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u356	You don't have to shout, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u357	That's not a situation!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u358	Man always does that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u359	It's necessary!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u360	It always starts yelling at the end. The indignation gets him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u361	You don't have to shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u362	I was trying to take the floor. For five minutes I wanted to talk. I'm indignant.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u363	Give him the prize!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u364	Minister, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u365	I'll answer Mr. Amyras first. Mr Amyras, I do not know exactly what you mean by 'viability study'. The viability of such an organization with the sustainability of the Lyric scene, the National Theatre and any supervised organization is alike. I said it very specifically and you understood it. I say that the new administration and the Ministry of Culture will conclude a programme agreement so that the grant we will give them, which we will see how much it will be, can be used by their own productions and multiply revenues. That's it. What further viability study you want, I don't know, since you completely change the status of Megaron in relation to the previous ones. And there is nothing we can do as a government in relation to the old debts of two hundred so many million. From there on, balance sheets and all the corresponding features of the Megaron and its management to this day, are at your absolute disposal. Mr Alexiadis just told me. He's in Mr. Tsakalotou's office. Whenever you want them, you have them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u366	We need them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u367	From there on, there's no longer a mysterious veto or anything like that. There are three people designated by the "Friends of Music". "Friends of Music" is no mysterious organization, who wants to do anything suspicious. But even if he wants to do anything suspicious, they are eleven members of the board of directors, everyone has his vote and his opinion, as is happening everywhere in the world. It's like you're telling me that at the National Theatre, because there are actors, the actors because they don't know what mysterious artwork it is, they'll have mysterious veto - Mr. Kegeroglou, I'm answering - in relation to the functioning of the National School.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u368	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u369	Mr. President, that's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u370	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu. Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u371	There's no more that. Forget the past, or rather study the past. Let's see it and draw conclusions like that. But don't mess with this past with a new page of an important building in the center of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u372	Mr Baltas...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u373	That is enough, Mr President, why do you tolerate this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u374	Hey, is it over what to do? It is then declared obsolete...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u375	The majority must respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u376	The majority must be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u377	They'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u378	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u379	Wait a minute, why don't we listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u380	...to the national agency...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u381	Wait, sir... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Kutsuko, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u383	I'm a rapporteur. And before the debate is concluded, and in order not to trouble this House and I would ask, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, for the four minutes of my term of office, for a minute in the form of observations on what the Minister said. I don't have it? Do I have a second? But I don't want to use that right. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u384	He's got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u385	It says here that you have been seconded. It wasn't me in the Chair then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u386	What are you talking about? But now the debate is over, Mr President. How did I mislead?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u387	I have not taken the floor, however, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u388	I spoke, but I didn't secondaryly. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u389	Wait a minute. Have you second-guessed or not second-guessed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u390	Of course, and you're adjudicating!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u391	Mr President, I spoke as rapporteur yesterday about the legislative act. And I spoke as rapporteur today about the amendments. I have the right to secondary education under the Rules of Procedure. And I don't want to use it so we won't trouble this House. I just need a minute. And I have to take it before the debate is completed and we get to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u392	Let's give it to you for a minute. But we're done. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u393	So I say that there are paradoxical Members: it makes me a huge impression, it is unprecedented, that the majority rapporteur has not been placed on the amendments. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman was not placed either. And I see majority MPs disagree. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative must respond to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u394	Like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u395	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u396	You won't let others pull the snake out of the hole, Mr. Mada. You will take your responsibility toward your colleagues who are calling...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u397	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u398	Mrs. Jufi and Mr. Mada, don't answer. When we have an interactive debate, we do not finish. Don't answer, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u399	But it's not like that! It's altering the process!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, protect me! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Now listen, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u401	You're done, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u402	No, I'm not finished, Mr. President! Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u403	We gave you a minute. It's been two minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u404	If they don't let me go! They're on vacation! So I say that the majority Members must know and do not rely on us what they will vote on. Minister, on the basis of what I have said to you, I agree with you that you will bring us balance sheets, accounts and oath reports. Look out! Don't intercept us. Why are you swinging your hand off, Minister? Previously, didn't you lie to us here that there's no veto when you make judgments in nine? And when the "Friends of Music" appoint three out of twelve, they have veto. Did you not say so before, in reply to Mr Tasoula's proposal, that the composition was six to five and they had veto? And now they have veto. Let colleagues know. We're talking about sustainability, Minister. Give your rapporteur's report. It doesn't say what the fixed costs are. How, then, does this system work and will it not enter every year, so that we can be forced to re-subsidise it? These are the two questions. Tell them to the colleagues who will vote. We shall vote in good faith, with the sects we have put in and hope that you will not block our vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u405	Thereafter, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is being held.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u406	The majority of what he says? Is the majority silent?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u407	They are not placed, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u408	(a) of 24-12-2015 Legislation on urgent matters of the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Island Policy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Rural Development and Food and Economics (A'182) and (b) of 30-12-2015 Act on Legislation on urgent matters of the Ministries of Economic Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Immigration Policy, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, National Defence and Economic and Social Policy. (A'184) and other provisions.' [[Noise in the Chamber]] Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u409	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u410	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u411	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u413	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u415	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: "State: a) of 24-12-2015 Act of Legislative Content "Consolidating of Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy", Maritime and Island Policy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Rural Development and Food and Finance" (A'182) and (b) of 30-12-2015 Act of Legislative Content of the Ministries of Economic Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Migration Policy, Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, National Defence, Health and Economics, Development and WORK." (A'184) and other provisions’ were accepted by a majority in principle. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Here, now, is Parliament's decision. The debate took place on the pluss and on the other hand, others answered, others did not want to answer. If the Minister doesn't want to answer, he doesn't answer. If the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman does not want to speak, he does not speak. The vote is now taking place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u416	I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u417	Don't you know what we're gonna say? Why are you commenting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u418	First of all, that was not the case. It happened in an economy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u419	You don't know what we're gonna say in the article...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u420	That's what I said. Excuse me, Mr. Mada, you didn't understand what I said. I said it was the conversation. If you want to respond to what Mr. Koutsoukos put in, answer. If you don't want to, you don't answer. That's what I said. I said: 'Now it is the vote'. I didn't make any comment. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u421	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u422	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u427	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u428	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u429	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u434	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number 174 and a special number 47, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u436	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 174 and a special 47 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree to an amendment with a general number of 175 and a specialist 48, concerning the Music Concert?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u437	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u438	Yes, with the commitments made by the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u441	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u443	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 175 and a special 48 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u444	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u445	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u448	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "State: a) of 24-12-2015 Act of Legislative Content "Consolidating of Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy", Maritime and Island Policy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Rural Development and Food and Finance" (A182); and b) of 30-12-2015 Act of Legislative Content of the Ministries of Finance, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Societal Policy, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, National Defence, Health and Economics, Development and Tourism. (A'184)' and other provisions' were accepted by a majority in principle, on the articles and on the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u449	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u450	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u451	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u452	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u456	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: "State: a) of 24-12-2015 Act of Legislative Content "Consolidating of Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy", Maritime and Island Policy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Rural Development and Food and Finance" (A'182) and (b) of 30-12-2015 Act of Legislative Content of the Ministries of Economic Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Maritime and Migration Policy, Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, National Defence, Health and Economics, Development and WORK." (A'184)' and other provisions' were accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all of them, and it reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u457	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u458	The House has given the mandate requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u459	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The fifth under number 507/8-2-2016 top-level question by MP Larissa of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios Katsasantonis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the closure of the Centres for Lifelong Learning in Larissa is not discussed due to a blockade by the MP. We continue with the fourth with number 521/9-2-2016 timely question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on mortgage borrowers with the currency of the Swiss franc. The Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism will answer Mr. Stathakis. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u460	Mr Minister, as you well know, about 82,000 borrowers in our own country have received a loan with the Swiss franc currency, but because of the exchange rate change they have suffered serious financial damage and have been in a difficult financial situation. This concluded with dozens of judicial decisions both in the first and second degrees. The European Union Commissioner for Consumer Affairs has also delivered an opinion on this. Recently, we had a development. The Anonymous Banking Company, named ‘EUROBANK ERGASIAS’, resigned its application against a specific decision by the Multiple Court of First Instance of Rhodes under the decision of an irrevocable and provided that decision with the reciprocated decision. As you know, of course, only applies to the party who attended. Question: What action do you intend to take in order to resolve this issue legally once the courtrooms have been recognized, has the bank also recognised it so that thousands of borrowers are not troubled? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u461	Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u462	As we all know, mortgage loans in a Swiss franc have naturally been entered into before the 2008 global financial crisis and have been concluded in the middle of a free market and choices on the part of borrowers without any care for the currency risk, which simply meant that in the event of devaluation of the Swiss franc the benefit went to the borrower, if the Swiss franc is valued naturally, the consequences are known. Under the circumstances, the case, as it emerged after the crisis, raises, in fact, the question of regulating this particular issue. I would remind you that the case at the moment is beyond the individual case invoked by the question, it is at the request of the consumer union, which will cover all cases, in a judicial decision and, indeed, at the highest level. Thus, one element is that there will be a court decision soon, which will generally cover this category and not an individual borrower. Secondly, there is a recent European mortgage credit directive, in which there is a specific capital, which regulates foreign currency loans and variable rate loans. The central idea of this directive is to have the right to reduce the consumer to convert the credit agreement into an alternative currency, subject to certain conditions, in order to reduce the exchange risk to which the consumer is exposed. This Directive, however, applies to mortgage contracts to be concluded from 21 March 2016. However, it has a certain regulatory framework, which can be a safe way of resolving the problem retrospectively. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Let me set out what the solution is. For example, the solution is to retroactively lock the exchange rate between the Swiss franc and the euro in a way which does not aggravate the position of the borrower and at the same time to determine the interest rate, in a way that - I would remind you - the borrower of the Swiss franc had a great advantage in the interest rate towards the borrower in euro. The solution is, therefore, a little more or less a given one. That's where we have to end up. It is a fair solution, which may, of course, arise from legislation. In agreement, important discussions have been held at this time with the Association of Greek Banks in order to find a legal form with which to agree and to be binding on all sides. The problem was therefore existing, unmanageable for some time. The appeals have been filed. The solution is an version of what I implied. We are very close to giving this solution retroactively and on the basis of - I repeat - a direction which exists from this point of view and, from 21 March 2016 onwards, to similar loans that will be concluded in the future at a reduced exchange rate, as provision is made for how to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u463	Mr. Vassilis Cockley has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u464	Mr Minister, if possible, if you can give a little special attention to this solution, because, on the one hand, the case in which the borrower was entitled is one that does not have any influence on what you have said about the consumer union. Because it will also come out, it will still cover ten, twenty, thirty represented by the Consumers' Union. This paradox happens. The banks themselves accept, admit that they want to solve the problem, because all judicial decisions are at their expense. The banks themselves accept it. EURROBANK resigned. We, why look from a distance? The bank itself tells the ministry to solve it, because it is not economically advantageous for the bank, because it will probably lose the court struggle. So, if we can tell these people about a specialisation of the legislative initiative and when. If you can, say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u465	The Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, George Stathakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u466	You are right in this remark. I think it is one of the issues that has been raised in the debate, which we had last week with the Greek Banks Association. We are looking for a rapid solution together - I repeat - that stands legally and is able, beyond the individual bank, to accept this solution from the whole banking system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u467	Thank you very much. We enter the seventh under number 482/2/2016 topical question from the Member of Parliament Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Meropis Toufis to the Minister of Health on the operation of the computing chronograph (PET - CT) at the University General Hospital of Ioannina. The Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paulakis, will answer. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr President, and I apologise for the previous tension. Mr Deputy Minister, we are all aware - and since the morning debate that has taken place here - of the very great efforts made by the Ministry of Health in recent years to tackle the acute chronic problems in the field of health, which, of course, have been exacerbated mainly by previous governments' policies and insufficient support for public health structures. The provision and upgrading of diagnostic tests provided in public hospitals I think it is in the planning of the Ministry, both to save public resources, which are of course fleeing to private health, but above all to better service citizens. I would therefore like to mention the possibility of upgrading these examinations, which the University General Hospital of Ioannina may provide in the field of oncology, neurology and cardinology by using the computer, PET - CT as it is known, with a positron emissions. The establishment and operation of such a system at the University General Hospital of Ioannina is considered essential to serve the public health good. It will contribute to the effective management of a large number of incidents from specialisations and specialties, which I mentioned earlier, in order to diagnose, staging and revolutionisation of the disease, but also to monitor the response to treatment, particularly oncology, as I said patients and others. It can also help in radiation therapeutic treatments. I would also like to point out here, in addition, that our hospital lacks such a system, while on the other hand it has a full functional nuclear medical department, with adequate and trained staff, covering important needs of many patients, and there it resorts to a very large number of cancers in the wider region, which, on the other hand, in order to carry out these very basic tests, are forced to travel to Athens, with everything that involves both suffering and financial burdens for both patients and their families. This hospital, given the existence of this fully operational and trained staff, serves as many patients as the "EIGLISMS" Hospital and meets the needs of the population not only of Epirus, but, as I said before, and the wider geographical area of Western Greece on the islands of Ionian, Thessaly and Western Macedonia, but can also, because of geographical proximity, attract a significant number of incidents from the neighbouring country, Albania, since, already, a large number of patients resort to our hospital for these services, of course on a fee. On this basis and in the knowledge of the very difficult context, I would like to ask you whether there is a possibility, financially and institutionally, to move forward in order to operate at the University General Hospital of Ioannina such a tombographer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u469	Thank you very much. Mr. Paulakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Mr President, for the question because of the meeting in the Committee on Social Affairs on the parallel Programme. Mrs. Jufi, I'll be brief. The answer is 'yes'. The system of computing tomography with positron emitters is a method which in recent years knows a great deal of growth. It is clear that it always offers signs, both in the staging of tumor patients and in the planning of their treatment. And since we're going to change things, it's really going to be able to provide economies of scale, in relation to how treatment is planned in some patients, not bombing them with chemo therapy to get the same benefits to those who make this bombing. There was the NSRF, from what we have seen, in the previous planning, whose resources, of course, were exhausted elsewhere. Because, indeed, the distribution of the health NRV in previous years was another triumph of the client state. Whoever had a tooth put a program in and took a machine. Whoever didn't, he wouldn't. And we're in the full redesign phase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u471	Why don't you say names? You should report names for what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u472	I always say names, Mr. Gregoraco. I always say names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u473	You're a slander. Leave what you know. Say names. Get out of there! We've had enough of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u474	Mr. Gregoraco, don't scratch yourself in the bag of soap.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u475	You're a slander. Say names for what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u476	I'll name names, Mr. Gregoraco. Of course, I'll say names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u477	Desperate, fake, say names!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u478	Calm down, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u479	The dignity of a minister in a democracy imposes names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u480	Why are you upset? Do you have the fly?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u481	I'm flying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u482	Why are you sniffing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u483	If you have any evidence, the D.A.!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u484	I'll testify them in detail, and you don't know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u485	I don't know what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u486	Sure. I'll testify it in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u487	Let's see what you've done a year!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u488	Calm down, calm down! It's all on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u489	"Stunny" where he takes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u490	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u491	After this interference, and if I'm provoked, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u492	Mr Polakis, please do not go beyond the question, because we are creating issues which are not solved at least in this session.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u493	Good. I shall return to the question and reply to what Mr Gregorakos has said very briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u494	Any time you want and wherever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u495	Please, on the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u496	Well, it's a technique. We understand the need. There are two machines in the public sector in Athens. One is at the "GENERAL" and the other is what we have opened - it is one of what we have done - now at the "METXA". First answer, then. There's three more private. Secondly, it opens up within the next period - and once the issue of radiopharmaceuticals has been resolved - at the "THEGEAN". And there is also the 'PAPAGERGIOU', which we are trying to see exactly how it works. It's things we do. This was part of the NSRP. It has responded, however - and there is a need - and other things have happened. At the moment, unfortunately, we have received a situation that we are obliged to implement some contracts that have been signed in connection with projects on health since the previous situation. But we will shape the terms to find money, because someone has just joined to join, without a study or process to complete. From there on, on this occasion, and because I was provoked, for the PET CT specifically to make me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u497	The PET at the "METAXA" Hospital has been signed by another Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u498	Mr. Gregoraco, don't interrupt me. Ask me a question and I'll bring the detailed list of what you approved and what was not implemented for the PET CT specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u499	Lies again!- Oh, my God! It's all, it's all...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u500	You're welcome, Mr. Gregoraco. Mr. Polakis, please don't answer out of question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u501	Yeah, the thief's yelling for the housekeeper to leave. Do you understand what's going on? The design will be for the installation of two or three machines in Greece. One of these will be in Iannina next period to geographically meet the needs of the public system and to meet this population. From there on, there are two issues. Firstly, we were not government when a compensation price was given for this EUR 700 examination, for the one who performs it at the centre where, throughout Europe, this compensation price does not exceed EUR 300. Here we go. We're hobbards. Secondly, we were not government when you accepted the price for the radio medicine, which was EUR 820, because there is one. And you have never set up a negotiating committee to negotiate this. The immediately prior leadership of the Ministry of Health and, in particular, Mr. Kourublis, reduced this price by 100 euros. Do you know how much this compensation price is all over Europe? From EUR 150 to EUR 200 is the price of radiopharmaceuticals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u502	Today, not then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u503	We were not government when you accepted and did not negotiate these prices. The cost is to bring it down where he should be, where he deserves it. And if there's a matter of blackmail, because there's a monopoly in the country, there's another way, because there's some other orange oranges. It can be placed at certain specific points, which can produce a dose every twenty minutes and can even depreciate the investment within one year of operation. And we will do that, because we have no commitments, so that we can be held by one's hand and agree to pay the 700 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u504	We don't have one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u505	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u506	For all the rest, I challenge you to ask me a question, to get the full list of the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u507	Leave the slander. If you have any, say names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u508	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u509	Mr President, I protest strongly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u510	She protests Mrs. Jufi, who has asked her question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u511	The "METAXA" Hospital...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u512	Mr President, please impose the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u513	Mr Gregorakos, the honourable Member complains, because in fact Mr Paulakis answers your remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u514	We can't lie here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u515	Mr President, for the second time I ask for your help.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u516	Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u517	Bring us who signs the PET of the “METAXA” Hospital!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u518	Mr President, I cannot under such circumstances. It's less than a quarter...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u519	Mr. Gregoraco, please. Intervention is incomprehensible. I would ask everyone and Mr Polakis not to answer the question, because that is the way the debate is going. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u520	Don't fly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u521	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u522	Please, when the question is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u523	No, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u524	When the question is over, the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u525	Mr President, I would ask you to indulge him in the classroom immediately. This is the second time we've had it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u526	Mr. Gregoraco, please. Mrs. Jufi, you're not helping yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u527	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u528	Mr. Gregoraco, you will have the floor on staff as soon as the question is over. Now the Member is a second-guesser. I'll give you the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u529	No, Mr. President, the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u530	No, you won't get the floor now. You must respect the process. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u531	Mrs. Jufi, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u532	For the second time in less than a quarter, PASOK colleagues are trying to argue and I think it is unprecedented and I want it to be written in the Minutes that during a timely question they are creating a hard opposition climate, which I do not know what offers them. And there are great people! I am now trying to come back to my question and thank you. Minister, thank you very much for your immediate response, because there is a great need, as I have said before, to strengthen the public health system, not only for the care of patients, as the possibility of setting up such a system in the Yanna can also help with academic, research and educational work, since the department in which this system will be installed and operated has the potential to train new colleagues and students and specialists in medicine and technicians, so that we can improve this level of service as well. I would therefore like to thank, and I hope in difficult economic conditions, and not only as it seems today - because there seem to be too many objections at too many levels - to recognise some colleagues how the public health system and the priorities have been handled. These can be submitted to them and we can ultimately move on to the real upgrading of the national health system, which needs place and local communities. I am, finally, at your disposal to present, when you think so, and more information is available from the relevant services and departments to upgrade these services by extending them to other areas where they exist at other ages, as well as in childhood, which I have been a pediatrician for several years at the University Hospital of Ioannina with a significant deficit in these services, for example in the diagnosis of childhood epilepsy, their operating costs and the timely depreciation of this investment. Thank you and I regret the tension that has arisen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u533	In order not to create tension, to answer the questions asked by the Ministers and the Ministers - of course it is not the fault of the questioners. Mr Polakis, you have the floor on the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u534	On the question, Mr President. Mrs. Jufi, I don't have much to say in relation to what I said in the prototype. There is a design that will be completed in March, where we collect proposals from all over Greece, which were there. They have been submitted and we are trying in cooperation with the Ministry of Development and Mr. Harissis and Mr. Stathakis to see the financial possibilities as a whole and to redesign the map of projects and supplies, which are necessary with a central objective and a central option to strengthen the capacity and capacity of the public health system. We will try to cover the whole of Greece geographically, not to leave areas behind, in relation to some others, as has happened in the past, and in some cases in a very challenging way. To complete the infrastructures, replace old equipment, introduce new technology that is necessary and necessary today in the light of developments in science and technology, and I believe that, slowly, we will achieve this with firm steps and decisive attitude to the complexion. Because, for example, the "METAXA" Hospital put PET CT with 1,300,000 euros and the "ATITI" Hospital opened a competition for the same machine of 6,500,000 euros and, of course, the UAE was also involved and this story stopped and there must be a new competition there again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u535	Thank you, too. Mr. Gregorako, what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u536	I have asked for the floor on staff and intervened, and I apologise for the procedure before, because things have been said, which, if I were not here, would not have been the Minister at all, but I happened to be here and restore the truth, because I was concerned with this truth. And I've been involved since the end of the day. The PET at the ‘METAXA’ Hospital has been signed under the State Government of New Democracy - PASOK. Indeed, what the Minister said about the PET at the ATTI Hospital, I referred to all these procedures in the ESS. I mentioned it because I saw that the difference between the one PET of the “METAXA” Hospital and the “ATTITI” Hospital was huge and did not go any further. While the paperwork came to the Ministry, I sent it back to the services. But he didn't say that, he wants to take everything his own. At the same time, however, he is making sure that his opponents are enslaved. I think the political man, when he has evidence of someone, should testify and name them. The national health system cannot be slandered or its previous colleagues. I would therefore ask Mr Polakis to be precise in what he says and answers to colleagues, because we are not here every time. We've tolerated a lot. I would ask Mr. Polakis to send the prosecutors who took the medicine more expensive than he found at the time. Because today the medicine has been cheap, Mr. Minister, and Mr. President. So to create impressions, let Mr Paulakis leave them in his trade union and his story when he was a doctor in hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. Mr Minister, I think you have no reason to answer because he is not a Member of Parliament. He had a personal...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u538	No, I have a question to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u539	Don't answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u540	I'm going to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u541	It's not right, Mr. Polakis, to do that kind of thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u542	I challenge you, Mr. Gregoraco, to ask me. We'll bring the evidence to the National Representation for all the projects...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u543	You're welcome. This process...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u544	Whatever time you want and whenever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u545	...which were approved in the previous period, how these projects were implemented, what they responded and why they responded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u546	Excuse me, this procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u547	Bring them in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u548	Please! Mr. Polakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u549	I'll be ready on March 15th to answer with names and addresses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u550	If you don't do it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u551	Please! This procedure is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u552	From that point on, Mr. Gregoraco, because I heard you and wasn't flying...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u553	If you don't, because you're a slander, I'll get them for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u554	Mr. Gregoraco...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u555	I've been listening to you for many years, now is the time to prove yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u556	You've been listening to me for years and you could never imagine that I would be here and you would be there. That's the story.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u557	Mr. Polakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u558	That is the story, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u559	This process...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u560	Where does your wife work? We found out what you did to both the Army and Sparta Hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u561	Mr. Constantine...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u562	We're done with the old one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u563	Mr. Constantine!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u564	Where does your wife work?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u565	In the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u566	Because mine works in a oven.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u567	Mr. Constantine, please! That is not a reaction from a Member now in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u568	Not even Mr. Gregoraku.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u569	It's a different matter, but you're intervening. Mercy! Please don't put them in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u570	Mr President, they should be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u571	No, I don't want Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u572	No, Mr President, it's all written down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u573	To be written, I have no problem. Everything, word to word. Because the cleanse rebels, the rebels of the ages forty, are shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u574	Mr. Constantine, please. The second under number 511/9-2-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Helena Rapti, to the Minister of Health, on the revocation of decisions decommissioning innovative services from the Institute for Health of the Child, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Because of the workload of the legislative work currently in place in the Commission, Mr Xanthos is not here. The third, with number 508/8-2-2016, is a top-level question for the F' Vice President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PAO.K. - P.M.A. Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the creation of the hotspots in Kos and the immediate withdrawal of the MATs from the island, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the main ministers. As far as I am concerned, the question was what the government intends to do directly for the immediate withdrawal of MCAs and how it intends to deal with the issue as a whole in consultation with local government. That was the question of the question, because at the moment it is the out-of-control situation in Kos - you know that - and that is bad for both the island and the national economy and for tourism. I hope the Minister will have a solution to the problem next time when he comes here to the House, because this question is not about the sight, it is about substance. The fourth under number 522/9-2-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the fines of the National Broadcasting Council (ESP) in the Media of Mass Information (MEP) will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifth under number 516/9-2-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, on the publications of the magazine “ENICA”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Athanasios Papadopoulos, Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos's sixth question, regarding the implementation and modernisation of the necessary institutional framework and the quicker response of the public services in order to provide incentives to attract clinical studies to our country, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the ninth question under number 472/1-2-2016 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Association of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the establishment of the Centre for the Booking of Refugees in Sindo, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The first question under number 518/9-2-2016 will be discussed in the context of the second question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Triantafyllos Mitafidis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the abolition of sub-paragraph F4) of the first paragraph of Article 4254/07-04 2014 entitled ‘Removing barriers to competition in retail trade’ and reinstatement of paragraphs 3a to 3d of Article 1 of Law 2557/1997. Mr. Mitafidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u575	Mr President, and Minister, my topical question concerns the reintroduction of the single book price, which was abolished by the previous government (ND - PASOK) in the name of the implementation of the infamous OECD toolbox called by Alexis Tsipras 'black book of neoliberalism', which broke the book, 'the backbone of civilisation', as Mr Gabriel called it, the anti-Cancellor and Minister of National Economy of Germany. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And because our government has undertaken to restore wounds and restore to its position this 'broken backbone of civilisation' is - if I'm not mistaken - the third time that, on the side of SYRIZA, we bring this issue. And as a Qualified Opposition, but also in the first term of SYRIZA government, as you know. There have been assurances. In fact, Mr Xydakis as Minister of Culture had called the abolition of the single price of books, which has led to the closure of bookshops at the moment. As you can see, it was an extermination measure that created oligopolistic situations in the book field. I want to be clear and say that there were assurances that it would be one of the first measures that this government would take. Indeed, there was, if I am not mistaken, a promise, which was even welcomed on 11-11-2015 by the Association of German publishers and booksellers with enthusiasm, your decision to restore the single book price to Greece. They said in their message that "it is very important to take into account the fact that time is an essential factor in the overthrow of the decision taken by the previous Greek Government". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is precisely on this issue that I should like to raise the question of my own, but also of the publishers and friends of the book, whether during this negotiation you have taken into account the Quartet, which has come to us since the troika, the reintroduction of the relevant article of Law 2557/1997, which, as you know, established the single book price. I would also like to point out that this issue was raised during the negotiations on this famous Transatlantic Agreement for the Protection of Investment by the negotiating group of the European Union with the United States. So the question is whether this issue has been raised by the creditors of the country. You know it's an issue that currently brings together the compassion and support of all the people of the book at all the lengths and backs of the earth except those who...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u576	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u577	...they don't want to have books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u578	I would ask all of us to respect the time, because there are no presidencies to continue the discussions. Mr Stathakis, you have the floor for three minutes strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u579	As you know the history is that this was part of OECD toolbox I and was implemented by the previous government. Our position is not about literary books but about other categories of books. For our part, the new framework for the negotiation has laid the basis for reassessing all the measures included in OECD toolbox I with regard to their effectiveness and in line with the conclusions and assessment of the effects of the toolbox to make the necessary adjustments. That is what has been included in our agreement with the institutions and the studies which will evaluate the results of this measure are currently being prepared. So far, our main argument is that on the basis of ELSTAT's data - it would be a good job if the ESRBI, which was watching the book market closely - did not have the impact that was on the price reduction of books. We've only had a marginal reduction. On the other hand, the aim of the legislation is, like the OECD itself, to recognise in the discussions we have now, the need to promote the production of a variety of book categories, to have a lot of bookshops and to actually promote reading in society. This therefore raises the issue of price regulation on the agenda, which is our aim, without, of course, leaving the question of improvements to the way the single price is determined. I think that dialogue with publishers can lead to a legitimate result. I would also point out that the experience of buying the book from other countries is a given one. Where they were released - there are few markets - they have indeed led to the absolute domination of large chains and the dissolution of bookshops, at least as we know them, to weaken the pluralism of many publications, with the domination of the most commercial criteria. Therefore, the measures - I recapitalise - which we have taken as a government are, firstly, the incorporation into the new agreement with the institutions of the need to reassess the measures of toolbox I in an objective way and to make remedial moves. This enables us, when this stage is completed, to be able to see this again in the way we all want, which is to have a single price system which defends the consumer and at the same time serves the purposes of publishing, pluralism and readability.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u580	Mr. Mitafidis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u581	I would like to remind you, Mr Minister, and ladies and gentlemen, that our country, in order to become a normal, normal country, according to the orders of our creditors, must follow the European acquis and its good practices. The point is, however, that there is no convergence here, but a deviation from the European acquis from the people who raise our fingers and have imposed a punishing regime on us. Let me remind you that in France, which is, says, worldview - notice - the support of the book, since June 2014 with the anti-Amazon law, as very characteristicly called - and we all know what Amazon is - is forbidden online shops to provide 5% discount with a free mission. So today more than three thousand bookshops operate. So this'reading culture', which is a basic condition for the development of culture, is currently banning our country and has led to the extermination of the neighborhood's bookshops in particular. The question, therefore, is, in my view, that it should be immediately raised to the negotiating priorities. Because we have, of course, many other things to put in place. I do not forget that at the moment we are in a 'blankish', but here we are talking about the spiritual drowning of a country in an area for which we should respect, at the very least.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u582	Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u583	I'll be perfectly honest with you. I share the time pressure. However, I analysed the procedure through which we are going to proceed. There's no other way. It's part of the deal. There will be a study and the necessary measures will only be taken when we have clear results with which we can move from there on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u584	Thank you very much for keeping time. Now, is the nineteenth question under number 392-12-1-2016 of the new Members of Parliament's Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the high charges for banks in all transactions using debt-credit cards. You have the floor, Mrs. Kefalidou, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u585	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are talking today, with a delay - but unfortunately the question I have tabled to you, Minister - regarding bank robbery charges in relation to banking transactions is still very topical. At the same time, the capital has been surrounded by farmers who are outside, protest - a great protest - because there is a terriblely heavy tax and a struggle for survival. You know we're against violence. However, the government has to find the way, it has to find the means to defuse the crisis, a more rational policy which compensates for the cost of production. It is a great debate and on the subject that we are discussing today. The compulsory use of bank cards - debit cards and credits - in citizens' transactions quite rightly can be used as a measure to compensate for smuggling and tax evasion. We have, at the same time, your statements, within December 2015, that they will come directly to the House that will link duty-free to the use of plastic money. We are positive on any initiative - and we support it - can also limit tax evasion and black trade. But the government here comes and works backwards. First, it announces, creates the compulsory use of plastic money in transactions - and this burden is unfortunately borne by the citizens, the professionals - and then comes to think about how it will reduce the cost of bank supplies. You know well, because the press keeps publishing articles on the subject, that we're talking about percentages of 3% per transaction. And of course, who are the winners of this process? Citizens? No, of course not. Banks, which in the first quarter following the implementation of the capital controls, have revenues from them exactly the commissions that exceed EUR 300 million. We're talking about the four big banks. I would therefore like to ask you, in addition to the Rules of Procedure which should have been in place since 9 December, what has the government done so far to deal with this huge issue that touches everyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u586	You have the floor, Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u587	The first issue concerns the implementation of the European directive, that is to say 0.2% and 0.3%, which is the basis on which these charges are based. Now, from there on, we're tracking the very evolution of the debts. The charges are differentiated according to the size of the enterprises. As you know, it's much less than 1% for very large retailers, it's 0.46%. They increase up to the percentage you have said for very small businesses. The average at the moment - and this is the one that concerns us - is close to 1.5%, at least on the basis of the latest figures, with a tendency to reduce the rate of charges as far as the market for the use of plastic money is concerned. So one thing is to restore the truth, namely what the real facts are and how the charges are made. In this particular measure, the Government, the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection, is considering the immediate creation of a bank charges observatory for the basic transaction costs of this type at the well-known Consumer Price Observatory, which will directly reflect the situation and the charges applied by the four systemic banks. I come to the second point which will significantly reduce the charges and for which we are in discussions. A large proportion of these charges arises from the fact that we are using exclusively foreign debiting and managing these credit transactions. One of the measures being seriously discussed is the appearance of a Greek card, which will significantly reduce the cost of these charges which now involve the consumer, the company and the specific card. Because usually - I repeat - all four banks cooperate with foreign cards in order to manage this system. The latter measure concerns the same administrative intervention. As you know, the rules here remain the rules of free competition. It is difficult for there to be an administrative determination of the price. This is an opportunity, however, under exceptional circumstances. And although the course of charges differs, for whatever reason, from what we think - or most - normal, that is to say, charges to move to 0.5% to 1.5%, which is about the average European, 1.3%, i.e. if there are or remain strong differences, there will be administrative ceiling intervention in order not to deviate from what is considered to be normal pricing. In this case there are also the corresponding administrative fines. In any case, administrative fines can be imposed today if there are unjustified high charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u588	Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u589	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I must say that the body of questions which are made by SYRIZA colleagues, but also by other parties, shows that what has been done so far is not satisfactory, as you are saying today as initiatives that have been taken. Because I am simply going to tell you that 0.2% and 0.3% that is what the directive stipulates and had to apply from 9 December is a summer night dream. I'll just tell you what's going on with a free trader. Let us take the example of a notary. I happen to know the case. He needed me recently. A notary, then, has a piece of net fee, a VAT piece of 23% and pays up to 15% to the Legal Fund. So let us say that we are talking about a remuneration of EUR 2 000. From this fee, the four hundred sixty euros are VAT. EUR 231 are taxes in favour of third parties. Its actual remuneration is EUR 1,309. If the bank has a transaction cost of about 2% - because that is where it is located - we are talking about another 40 euros for money that is not even a pay, but a parafiscal tax. It should be based on the regulation to be at 0,2% or 0.3% of the transaction value. It is, however, at the disposal of each banker, how he will define it. When you go to the bank alone as a scientist, a freelance professional, the best deal you can achieve is 2%. If you go through a lawyer's club, it might come down to 1% per transaction. Actually, what's going on? There's the bill for the scooters. ‘POS’ charges them EUR 9 to EUR 11 per month. The transaction is 2% and 0.70% is the transaction fee. Worst you know what it is? People who aren't going to put that money in their pocket, you're forcing them to make the unpaid Treasury. This is not only the case for pharmacists, engineers and freelance professionals, but also for patrols, to taxi drivers. And if, as you're telling us, SYRIZA takes a cut down, I want you to tell me why in the kiosks it makes sense to work from night to night, when the gross profit margin is 4% and for cards they pay a fee of 2% on the retail. One more thing. I used a cab. Their minimum pay is 3,50 euros! Using a card in their pocket, 2,80 euros go in. And I was told by the cab driver: "My lady, I will put you black list, so I won't call you again, because you pay in plastic money and all this cost I am forced to absorb it and it doesn't interest me." So do not, Minister, say at the end 'Help me poor, not to be like you', because that is where we go. And very well they do banks and they work the way they work, quite rightly, and the consumer, who looks at you with half an eye when you tell him you haven't yet "POS". Also, do not forget that there are some professionals who are at TIERIA and forbid them from using "POS" the bank. We have a problem there, too. But the question is what the government is doing, which even before considering the issue and taking all the dimensions of the problem, made announcements, did a huge campaign, without the possibility of supporting it and without the banks being able to control the big and arrogant commissions. In very simple terms: good regulations, good ministerial decisions, good observatories you have told us. But what we need here is that before we legislate, we have seen all the parameters and there is something missing. What is missing, Minister, is the regularity, which is still missing from all your announcements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u590	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Stathakis, to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u591	The government, I repeat, intervenes when there is a problem that needs to be addressed. Since you and the government's intentions for the generalised use of plastic money as a measure to reduce tax evasion, you also share the view that it facilitates the transaction procedure for all citizens, we are therefore in the same direction as how this issue is dealt with. I repeat: we have the data, not to speak in the air, from the only research we have at the moment, from the Athens Chamber of Commerce. This classifies businesses and charges. I would remind you that 35% of enterprises are doing from 1%, they are between 0.5% and 1%, which is considered normal. 0,2% and 0.3% are the basis on which the additional commission charges related to the operation of the system are made. 0,2% and 0.3% are about the ceiling on which the bank can put the necessary costs, i.e. the real cost. So 40% of business according to our study moves to 0.5% to 1%, so it's under 1%. Sixty percent of enterprises have a ceiling of 1.5%. There is a 5% burden, the ones you have implied, close to 3%, and that is forbidden. Charges of this type must be discharged from the market. This is the part that, if necessary, we will intervene. I repeat, the expansion of use throws the cost away and will throw it further. The appearance of a Greek card will drop the cost and drop it very importantly. Thirdly, the price observatory will be a good guide for professionals and for all traders to monitor the real evolution of supplies. Fourthly, where, if and when the government needs to intervene in a field in which, I repeat, competition is free, it will do so in the interests of protecting professionals and card users.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u592	The tenth under number 436/22-1-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the "explained and unjustified increases in fuel prices addressed to the Greek consumers", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. Also, the tenth third under number 432/22-1-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Vassilis Kokkalis, Minister for Economic Affairs, Development and Tourism, on the "asymmetrical" deadline for updating the files of outstanding applications of borrowers according to the n. It will not be debated because the Member has been satisfied with the amendment. We enter the debate of the twelfth under No. 401/18-1-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the high prices of fuel in our country when the price of oil internationally is low. The Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism will answer Mr. Stathakis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u593	In the interests of consumer protection, as you have concluded, Minister, beforehand, we need to have a debate to see how we can benefit Greek consumers and businesses more from their operating costs and overall for the Greek economy. Indeed, we have historically low for international oil prices: it is below $30 per barrel and of course it is shaped around or near this limit. No one, of course, expected that a reduction in the retail price would be proportionate, because, as you know, there is a stable rate of high fuel tax. But even if we remove taxes - whether they are fixed or percentage - we see that the price reduction per litre is too small, around 10% -14%, while prices have fallen internationally, as I have told you, to a very large proportion. I would therefore like to see whether there is room, by depleting the current institutional framework, for us to have a better level of competition so that we have another price drop or if you have assessed that other interventions, institutional, regulatory or any other form of legislation or initiatives are needed, so that we can form this best area of protection for consumers and the Greek economy in general. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u594	Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u595	As you know, there are the decisions of the Competition Committee, which have been adopted in 2007 and 2008. There is also an opinion from 2012, which contains thirty global proposals, which have been transmitted to the Ministries of Economy, Economics and the Environment, which are responsible for adopting the proposals on a case-by-case basis. Of these thirty-one proposals, twenty-eight have been implemented. There are three unresolved points, which are needed to complete the legislation. One concerns the independent maintenance body, which is essentially a company in the form of an AU in the form of an AU in the form of a holding of the safety reserves. Furthermore, the existing legislative provision for the minimum period of time in the contract between the safety reserves responsible for maintaining the contract has not been abolished and the time from ten to five has not been reduced to renting a storage area for wholesale of liquid fuels has not been reduced. Therefore, the institutional framework - which I would point out - has been formulated, is active. Now in relation to lowering fuel prices, as you know, refineries prices represent on average 27% of retail prices. The fixed charges are about 60% and the variables in 8.5%, while the costs of the retail trade are only 7.5%. According to the above data, refineries prices decreased during the period considered by around 32% to 33% and the average retail price, if not proportional, by 13%. In other words, there is a fall in prices. Obviously, it does not follow precisely the fall in oil prices, since the price of oil - I repeat - is less than 30%, 27% of the retail price. It is clear from the above that the issues that remain and must - obviously - be addressed are issues of distortion of competition in the refining and marketing of liquid fuels. Here, firstly, we have a major decision-making activity in progress by the Committee on Competition, in order to increase competition, and secondly, there are important proposals on the part of operators and others, who also push in one direction towards increasing competition and weakening oligopolistic practices. In any case, the government is currently struggling with the main problem, around this issue, which is smuggling. Relevant announcements have been made by the Ministry of Finance. We are, firstly, continuing with the checks and opinions of the Committee on Competition, the checks of the ILO, the Price Observatory and the open line of consumers in the General Secretariat of Trade, the treatment of fuel smuggling, the single system which we all support and want to implement fully and fully, and the monitoring of the integration of new technologies, with which all these objectives will be better regulated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u596	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u597	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the evidence you have confirmed, about 27%, is the average fuel value. In short, 73% of all taxes are taxes. This means, firstly, that there is no margin for taxing fuel. And this is about some who think about putting a new tax on fuel, probably because it facilitates other things, other thoughts, gives solutions to other issues. But here we see that this is forbidden. Secondly, with what you have said to me, there seems to be no question of competition at the retail level and with what we know we can look somewhere in between and possibly at the price of a refinery, since there are more general conditions of competition, such as, for example, transport of fuel from other countries which are very difficult because of our country's geographical location. The other conclusion is that you need to concentrate and strengthen, of course, the objective you have set for smuggling. However, in order to relate to the issue, we must say that annual savings from the smuggling of fuel, which means the collection of the corresponding amounts relating to other non-taxable and non-retailed quantities, are not those which are legally brought to the consumer, it will also mean a reduction in the fixed charges on fuel. If, in other words, a target of EUR 1 billion per year is reached and while the state receives 14 billion - I do not remember what the 2016 budget provides for - this benefit should be added to plus the consumer, so tax should be deducted. It is not a general objective to achieve this. Then where'd all this go? So it would be positive if you connected it. The last thing I would like to say to you is that, as you know, the offices have a very small profit rate. Because it has also become necessary and compulsory for the use of plastic money and it would be good, of course, under conditions, to extend this further, once a number of issues have been resolved, we will have to deal with the big question raised by the previous question, which has to do with the cost of electronic transactions. I will tell you this: The offices with the very small, unfortunately, profitable rate, with the heavy burden they have on the banks, have been very compressed. But this competition is unfair. In other words, while it should be 0.2% and 0.3% of January 7 to 9, in accordance with the regulation, which seems to have elapsed both by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Greece - it is already February and the procedures necessary to implement the regulation have not been launched - this cost goes beyond many times - you said at best - and 1%, but also 1% is, when the profit rate is 3% and 4%, you understand that there is a huge problem. The banking system, in which we are forced to drive both the agency and the consumer, because of other needs and procedures - has such an over-profit, because it is super-profit. So I would also like you, if possible, to aim for consumer protection at some point, as well, to tell Mr Alexiadis, to make the decision. There's no other way. Tell him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u598	Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u599	I think there is an agreement that we are following, or at least at one level, wholesale prices to an elementary proportion by reducing prices. Evidently, there's a tax issue. I don't think it's time to promise a tax reduction. I can't imagine there's going to be that. But facilitating the fight against smuggling - I fully share this view - creates the scope for reducing the tax burden, which will really make it easier for the public, because it does not have to take all the increase from the fight against tax evasion, but at the same time it will also help the consumer with a more flexible adjustment of taxes in proportion to the price of oil. So that's an open matter. It's real. I also share the view that the use of plastic money, of course, on the one hand, makes it very easy for the fuel trade, because the transactions made by these stations are very large and have a great deal of security costs and so on. On the other hand, it is an area where bank charges, as a matter of priority, must be very low as in mass retailers. They must approach what we originally implied in a previous question, to be much less than 1%. It must be close to what is considered 0.4%-0.5%, precisely because the nature of these transactions allows for reduced costs for banks as well. We're in constant dialogue with the agency's agents. These are issues that we can resolve in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u600	Thank you, Mr. Minister for the time. I would like to tell you that we need to keep the time, because in order for the whole process to come out together and with the question we have to preside over three and a half hours each. Respect, if not yours, at least our situation. Next is the third with number 514/9-2-2016 topical question of the Attica Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the insurance of farmers. The Minister will answer Mr. Katrugalos. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u601	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we are talking today about insurance, here in the House, in a climate that is really inspiring. It's not just here airy climate, but unfortunately there's violence out of here. There is violence against farmers with chemicals and MMs. Unfortunately, there is violence on the other hand. There are phenomena of violence themselves, they may not be farmers themselves, they may be other things that intruse. There is government violence and social violence. And since we, Madam President, are condemning the violence from wherever it comes, I would like to ask the Minister how a major national issue - far beyond the budgetary 'holes' you go to cover the 2,2 billion, which relates exclusively to your Government, 280 million euros last year's account in December 2014 - hope you will resolve it - and I will not make a trial of intent - and how you will discuss it with this climate and with this violence. That's the first. Secondly, you have presented a draft. I will not say a draft law, Minister, because it is not. You now call on the farmers who have already been out in dialogue, when you had all the time - and we told you with all the good sense - from October, which presented that draft expert, if you remember. We told you to call the social actors, the parties, the farmers, ever since to discuss them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this preliminary draft that has been seen in the light of publicity has brought it, not only from farmers but also from other dynamic productive groups, because the rate of double - or even triple - of contributions is extinguished and pushed to tax evasion. These are proposals that are also of a non-life insurance nature. What exactly do we want? Do we want the young farmer not to be insured? Do you even want him to be able to produce? Because as you will then hear the question, there are other issues, taxes, etc. Furthermore, Minister - and I am ending, Madam President - how are we going to have a dialogue and bring a bill which, from what I understand, also faces the intransigence of the IMF and the Quartet? When we talked about it, we were germans! Now it's intransigent! It is intransigent and we are against this intransigence. But in order to be able to overcome this intransigence, Mr Minister, to give it not only to the institutions but also to Parliament? Madam President, three Members of the Democratic Association have tabled a question and a request for documents to be lodged by the Minister here in order to obtain the proportionate studies so that we can see exactly the quantified information, because we cannot discuss insurance without studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u602	Mr. Katrugalos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u603	Madam President, your point of view and your written question, I think, is inappropriate and in contrast to the efforts of the President of the Democratic Alliance, in the prior-day debate that the government has provoked, to make proposals. Let me begin by whether we are actually sending farmers to the executive or preparing insurance for Armageddon. Before I talk about the core of your question, I would remind you that you really broke up the primary sector. In fact, institutions that could be the players of the social economy, such as the rural cooperatives, have become synonyms of looting and enrichment. So in this area too, while we inherited your own brokens and the other decades of bipartisanism, you are now giving up on us because we cannot collect them in a year that we are in power. However, let us take things from the beginning for the insurance of farmers. Is the current situation sustainable? Is it good for farmers? You know that the OGA collects 3.3 billion from the state - we are talking only about the insurance of farmers - and only about the contributions from farmers. 90.6% of the OGA's resources for insurance are from the state. And what does the farmer receive in return? Is he a very privileged one? No, second-class citizen you considered him. The farmer’s basic pension in 2015 was EUR 172. It's dropping all the time. 2016 is EUR 158 and 2027 will disappear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u604	Where did you get these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u605	What do we do? With the provision of the insurance bill, the minimum insurance category - that is to say, that corresponds to the income of a person with a monthly income of about 80% of the unskilled worker - belongs, according to the official statistics and information provided by the Ministry of Finance, to 88% of the farmers. For 88%, then, of farmers at the end of the transitional period, the charge for pensioning will be EUR 93 per month and for these EUR 93 the farmer will receive a national pension of EUR 384 plus EUR 384 per tonne corresponding to the analogue part. We therefore want farmers citizens like everyone else, not second-class as you had them. And let's see what that burden will be. Will it be the three-fold you're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u606	Is that why the farmers came today? Is this a celebration of joy for them today?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u607	Please, Madam President, give me this time, because I am not responsible for the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u608	Let, Mr. Colleague, the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u609	To have an elementary seriousness and to be able to answer arguments rather than screaming. I now tell you some specific facts. At the moment, 55% of farmers are in the third class of insurance. They pay EUR 954 a year for insurance. Their incursion in 2017 will be around 150 euros above, i.e. 10 euros per month. And in exchange for this little charge, they will receive the national pension. That is what we offer farmers. We're open to dialogue. We've been talking about it all along. For this very reason, and the draft of the Committee on Reform, we have made public and invited everyone to an open debate and dialogue, not only in the Committee which we have been through several times, but also with farmers. A prerequisite for dialogue is to come. We've already received requests from certain blogogues and we'll talk about them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u610	Mr. Catrugale, you've been over time. There's no room.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u611	I'll be done. The prerequisite for dialogue, however, is for both sides to sit around a table. I am sure farmers will come, because farmers are not the mandarins who have attempted to invade the Ministry of Rural Development. Gortsu's manure is not a symbol of democracy. It's a micropolitical symbol. And they tarnish the farmers' struggles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u612	When you guys were up on the tractors...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u613	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u614	We, therefore, are prepared to discuss the serious issues of the sector with all the farmers who are willing to discuss. This is the vast majority of farmers. With them we will be discussing, precisely because they are the hope for the recovery of the primary sector, which is also a hope for the recovery of the economy. I am going to speak in my secondary speech for this is indeed a depository of hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u615	Okay, don't take any more time to tell us what to say. Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u616	Thank you, Madam President. I stand up to styles, Minister. I guess I'll just make one comment. I don't want to remember Professor Katrugalo, as a folk judge, in the upper square between Syrians and Chrysayites. What was your look then? What were you talking about then? They pour out what I'm telling you about Armageddon in insurance. Mr Minister, I will not follow you, nor will we follow you, in the division that you have brought then, nor will we be pleased that your Government is now - because it is the government of Greece - to collect this vulgar way in which you have treated your political opponents. Let's go see what we're going to do, because what you told us is not true. In other words, if they hear us, they are laughing at the moment. In order to make it clear, we neither ride like your Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, nor plunder here and say 'all good'. Of course, I do not think that the vast majority of the farmers themselves, who are reasonable people, are saying not to pay. Of course, there will be consolidation. Of course, they know very well, Mr Minister, and then the House will hear, in the question, what this fact has been about for farmers in the past. In any case, if you do not know, ask your colleague, Mr Bolaris, in the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government, this curious left-wing mix of nationalism and some old-fashioned people who have been enslaved to find ministerial and parliamentary positions. Ask them, Minister. Let's go down. Analogy studies have not been seen. Minister, listen to me. I know that it is difficult to say, but it is the truths and truths that hurt, because in politics the consistency of words and works is also important. That's what the story is about. You said - and quite rightly so - that we have proposals. We had the first time. In November we held our day. The President, Mrs Gennimatas, tabled the ten points, concrete proposals. You took the Koutrumani-Loverdos law, distorted it, lowered the rate of replacement and, through these injections, plunged all the productive potential of the place, farmers, scientists, free traders. That's what you did. We tell you this: Take the Law of Loverdus - Koutrumani, bring him a little forward in time, so that you can save from 2020 and, above all, make three funds. What are you going to do with OGA, Minister? Are you gonna slap him? Of course, the OGA has problems, of course it needs consolidation, and of course we also have legislation on farm workers. Apply it, extend it. There is the institutional framework of our own governments, what SYRIZA then abomined. So I ask you: will we go to three funds, as is our proposal? You will bring in a draft, because what we are telling you now - and the whole Democratic Partnership tells you - is to withdraw this draft, if you want to be heard, because they are not listening to you. Because they don't believe you from the many lies. So withdraw the insurance. There are proposals from the farmers, proposals from the workers. The Prime Minister never invited the workers, only employers. Only employers are the Left Prime Minister supposedly! Well, call them. And they have suggestions. And we have proposals and other parties in this House have proposals and make it quickly a dialogue that will bring you an insurance policy, which is both sustainable and sufficient, and then we would put back even on the budget. But not lying, not hypocrisy, not violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u617	Here, Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u618	Just two minor clarifications for my personal insignificantness. As my colleague at the university, Professor Loverdos, will assure you, I was never one of the inners of your resignation, as you said. I never went through PASOK. Second observation is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u619	You're only in position...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u620	Mr. Kegeroglu, be serious, please, and do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u621	Yeah, our seriousness ate. It's the seriousness!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u622	Mr. Kegeroglu, leave now, because we have a whole question after. Hold your strength.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u623	You were appointed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u624	You're one of those who don't want to hear arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u625	Mr. Catrugale, don't answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u626	Obviously, I'm not gonna answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u627	There is no dialogue allowed in this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u628	As regards my presence on the square, I was proud of it, because that is where I have supported what I stand and now, that is, positions against neoliberalism and in favour of direct democracy. For what you are talking about, I would like to tell you that for the three funds we may be able to discuss it. We do not care so much about the organisational structure of the funds, but rather about serving the basic principles of reform, which are equality - the same rules for all - and social justice. These aims are best served by a fund than by three. I would remind you that you, too, have voted together with the New Democracy and the Potami when the so-called 'third memorandum' was voted in Parliament. He's talking about an agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u629	Wrong, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u630	He's talking about a single entity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u631	Wrong, Minister. I personally agreed on three funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u632	What you have agreed on personally does not concern us. We're interested in what the Memorandum says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u633	I personally agreed on three funds and the Samara government. Mr. Kegeroglu was State Secretary. We say that the moments are critical, and we have to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u634	I think you don't understand what we're talking about. That is what you voted on in July. 4336 speaks of an insurance single entity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u635	It was your inspiration. That is what you are saying on the left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u636	So, those who have divorced with truth and reality, learn at least the basic rule, because the writings stay and appear. With regard to the proportionate studies, which have become a useful candy, in recent years, I have to say to you: I will submit to the minutes the report by Deputy Minister of Labour, Mr Koutromanis, in January 2011, the following year from the one in which the two laws, the ns, were passed. Date of birth: 3863 and 3865. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Georgios Katrugalos presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What's he announcing there? It announced that the proportionate studies for the three private sector funds - not the EIF - are already audited and that the public sector is expected to update. We're talking about a year later. When, then, is the proportionate study published? Issued in 2012. She's also being filed in the Minutes to see her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u637	What are you talking about? In 2012, the study came out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u638	Lie again, Mr. Brutsi? It's definitely your divorce from the truth. Why is that so? Because the process of ratification of the proportional studies requires, firstly, the overall update of the Treaties, the finalisation of the replacement rates. There is a European procedure under the ‘Ageing Working Group’, where these are submitted, checked and validated. The procedure, therefore, is that proportional studies contain data up to the previous year of their submission and are approved the following year. Therefore, your analogy study was published after the law, and until then what did you have? Showings. These corresponding screenings we've sent them, and we've...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u639	That is not the case, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u640	Lies again. I filed papers and you need to check them out. No divorce with the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u641	You're lying and you're going to have to go out and apologize today, once again, for the lies you've told.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u642	So we say the very simple thing. The institutions wouldn't come...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u643	I respect you're Minister, but don't lie to people they know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u644	I can't believe you're not blushing, Mr. Brutsi. So the quantitative figures have been submitted to the institutions. If we hadn't submitted our quantifiable views, the institutions wouldn't have come. Right there is the choice you need to make, your resignation, Ms. Christophilopoulou. With the International Monetary Fund, you will be invoked...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u645	What are you talking about? Are you saying that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u646	Or with the effort we're making to defend the country's rights?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u647	Come on, Mr. Catrugale, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u648	We have made progress in an insurance reform which promotes Greek interests. It was written in Greek and it wasn't translated from outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u649	Yes, you've translated it whole!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u650	This has been accepted by the European institutions and we are prepared, in open dialogue with society, to improve it on what is acceptable for improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u651	Now we will discuss the eighth under No 487/2/2016 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the treatment of workers' problems at the General Clinic "LYSIMAXOS SARAFIANOS" in Thessaloniki. Mr. Katrugalos will answer. Mr. Bardalis, here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u652	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am referring to a problem that, particularly in the years of the capitalist economic crisis, has taken explosive proportions, of course, first of all in industry. However, the question I am asking today, particularly in the health sector, is not better. Rather, the problem we are discussing tends to become a norm. I am referring to the problem of the non-payment of workers. Since the speech is now being made for the General Clinic "LYSSIMACHOS SARAFIANOS" - it is not only about this general clinic, I have in mind the 'EUROMEDICA' and Veria and Thessaloniki - and I inform you that a short period of time ago their employer owed them four months. Now the months have become seven and the prospect, of course, is to go to nine, ten and twelve months, because it does not pay. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In fact, in my visit to the area, along with the workers, and in a conversation we had with the cynical leader, he informed you: "If we don't get any money from the EOPYY, despite the fact that you can't live without a wage, we're not going to pay you." That's the situation. Secondly, except that it does not pay workers, it does not implement the employment contract, the original effect of which was from 1-3-2014 to 31-12-2015, and there are differences in wages and, of course, it does not pay for the seven months either. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we ask in particular: will the collective labour agreement be respected in this area first? Will they be paid and when are the employees? And of course, from now on, it must be regular wage payments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u653	Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u654	The evidence put in my mind by the Labour Inspector confirms in many respects what you have referred to. It therefore appears that on 22 January the company had not submitted the requested information in relation to proof of payment of accrued remuneration. Details were requested which have not yet elapsed. On 1 February 2016, a new on-the-spot check was carried out which found a debt of accrued earnings already from June to today and no clearing notes were issued. For all these infringements, therefore, administrative sanctions are to be imposed, which by law are at the disposal of labour inspectorates as deterrent tools. Furthermore, for the non-implementation of the arbitration decision within 15 days an invitation has already been set to discuss the labour dispute at 18-2-2016 at 10:30' at the local labour inspection service. It is clear there that the inspection of labour, as all the services of the Ministry of Labour do, will make it clear that it is not a choice to respect collective labour agreements and arbitration decisions, it is an obligation for employers. And we will obviously get rid of every margin of rigour we have for the application of this legality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u655	Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u656	Mr Minister, I also know about the audits of the labour inspectorate. In fact, he has also been made recommendations, but he is not abstract. The question is what we're doing from there. So, we're going to make recommendations? That's all? First of all, workers are asking for a trialogue with the Ministry, the employer and the workers and for the matter to be discussed in substance. And let me tell you one more thing. All right, make recommendations. I imagine you realize how workers can live with their families for seven months. And we're talking about a $500 salary. So, how will they pay the bills of the CPOs, the rent? They have to raise kids, they have to pay the rags. And possibly some of them have a loan and are obliged to give the dose. So, where are we finally driving? The workers are between two millstones. On the one hand the state, through the EEA, the Ministry of Health, in any case, does not give money for health and, on the other hand, the employer, at the end of the day, the burden of all this anti-grassroots policy, as well as in the health sector, on the backs of workers and patients. The Ministry has responsibility for the situation in the sector as well as for the payment there is! In our opinion, measures must also be taken to put pressure on workers through the tripartite agreement and which should be promoted in order to provide a way out of this problem. Finally, I can see with understanding, in any case, that you cannot do anything, as you say, because you need to take into account what the legislation says and you will make recommendations, you will exercise as much pressure as you can. However, as far as the problem of workers themselves is concerned, if you are sensitive, you can contribute in this direction. As a government - regardless of the previous problem, which must of course be solved - must not you take similar measures to alleviate these workers? For example, why pay doses? Why pay HIS and other rags the workers for the time they are not paid? Can't they freeze, for example, these? In this direction, the government must move in, to deal with, to alleviate this situation. After all, in the capitalist crisis, they're fading things like that. Conditions in which employers lay the burden on workers' backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u657	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor for exactly three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u658	It is not just a declaration of sympathy and solidarity in the struggles of the people of work. That's a given thing. I didn't just talk about recommendations. The sanctions, the fines, will be imposed. From there on, the tripartite has already been set at the level of the Thessaloniki Labour Inspectorate. If a tripartite also needs to be done at the Ministry of Labour, I am always willing to do that, since the labour side considers that it will promote its interests. In fact, most of them, I'm trying to be there myself. It is not always true, however, because this is not always realistic. On the general issue of crisis management, we are actually running six years of blackness, six years of political austerity implementation. It is not easy to put up and reverse this situation. But our intention is clear. So it is our intention to be with the world of work and oppose these austerity policies, and we hope that with the recovery of the economy that will come from the second half of the year, we will be able to do much more of these few things we have done in the past period. Among these were the legislation on the humanitarian crisis, aid for the weak, but also the recent legislation of the Ministry of Health, which does something of the most important, that is, it gives access to health services to the weakest, insurers. All of this shows that we're trying to turn the ship around and give us a chance. And if we have more time, we'll do more in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u659	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I will announce some permits for absence abroad. Parliamentarian Georgios Koumoutsakos is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 16 February 2016 to 18 February 2016 as he will participate in the European People's Party Summit in Brussels. The Member, Mr Constantine Gavroglou, also requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from 22 February 2016 to 25 February 2016. Finally, MP Mr Vassilis Kikilias seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad - in Israel - from 15 February 2016 to 19 February 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u660	The House approved the requested permits. And now we are coming back to topical questions. There have been two last questions that Mr Apostle will answer, so that we can have a bridge with the question. The first question under number 517/9-2-2016 will be discussed with the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the possibility of abolishing the forced nature of the Chios Magistrates Association. Mr. Apostle will answer the question. Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u661	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in recent years representatives and officials of the Chios Mastic producers' Union have received informal oral information from various sources that in the forthcoming bill regulating the issues of agricultural cooperatives, there is the intention to provide for the abolition of all forced agricultural cooperatives. Among these cooperatives are the Chios Mastic Producers Association, which has been a forced agricultural cooperative since 1938. It is the collective expression of twenty primary cooperatives of the twenty-four masonry located in southern Chios. Its administration shall be carried out by a nine-member Council, whose members come exclusively from the ranks of mastic producers and who shall be elected every four years by the General Assembly, which shall also be the dominant body of the Chios Magistrates Association. Today, the Chios Mastic producers' Union has about four and a half thousand natural members. The compelling nature of the association has been an effective solution, as has been shown, to the need for protection, especially of small mastic producers, against their exploitation by speculators of the time. It should be stressed that, in particular, these small producers, 80% of the total of some two thousand mastic producers, who produce up to 100 kilograms, have protected and benefited the co-operative's forcedness, allowing them to obtain a satisfactory as much as necessary, especially for our seasons, supplementing their income. This results in trees being cultivated as a whole and new areas being planted continuously, which gives new life to the countryside of southern Chios. The association is the sole mastic management body in Greece and abroad. The Union monopoly concerns only the raw material and not its derivatives. On the one hand, the producer is protected and on the other hand, quality and reputation of mastic are guaranteed. In addition, the union's complicity also ensures a very high degree of return on taxes to state funds, as it minimises the margins of irregular movement of mastic and therefore tax evasion. Minister, on the basis of the above, and because the probable abolition of the compulsion creates a reasonable concern in the ranks of mastic producers and their union, the forced nature of the Chios Mastic producers' Union is absolutely essential for the sustainability of this literally unique crop. The compelling nature of the association makes a decisive contribution to maintaining the primary agricultural production sector in Chios. Finally, the compelling nature of the Union has been a necessary condition for the development in the key sectors of exports, research and innovation in recent years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u662	Mr. Michaelidis, shorten up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u663	I would therefore ask you to clarify whether there is indeed the intention of the Chios Maltese Association to lift the compelling nature of the Chios Mastic producers' association and whether there is any obligation - possibly - in the country, which would make it impossible to abolish the Union of Chios Mastic producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u664	In your dentext to confine yourself, Mr. Michaelides. Here, Mr. Apostle, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u665	My dear colleague, I will not disagree with you about the services the compelling has actually offered to the mastic, which has not only offered a way out for Chios' production, but also at a point where there has also been a consumption that goes beyond the island's production. I would also say to you another feature, along with being linked to Chios and being a cultural material of UNESCO, what we call the 'intangible cultural heritage'. So all that you have said really responds to a situation which indeed is in the positive direction of providing the mast with the mast. Unfortunately, however, - and it is not today, since 1930, I would say, a differentiation of many, about the necessity of forced cooperatives - have been criticised, especially by representatives of free cooperatives, on the part of them, by saying that the conditions, the basic principles of cooperation, which are the free participation of members, regardless of their qualities, are fundamentally violated. Today these objections to the functioning of forced cooperatives have also been brought to the European Commission, they have also reached the European Court of Human Rights, through which we have a specific decision on a specific forced cooperative in our country. As for the compulsory cooperatives of Chios and their union, for us it is so important that their offer, which we want to continue to operate, is governed by the laws and decrees in force so far in our country as regards the forced operation of cooperatives. I would point out one thing, however: if there are any pressures by the European Commission and institutions or judicial decisions, then by means of a joint ministerial decision - I stress it - a framework of operation will be established, which we do not really want to have any further problems for us. As you can see, then, my dear fellow Member, and we will really try not to create a problem with compelling. But you should know that, in order to safeguard the necessity in this particular case, other factors and especially local players need to be involved. I don't want to tell you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u666	Thank you. Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u667	The figures, Minister, shown in its activities by the Chios Mastic producers' Union in recent years, namely the diversification of the use of mastics through innovative use and research, as well as intense extroversion, are an example, I dare say, of the future development and the necessary reconstruction of agricultural production in our country. The mastic is a lasting product, export, with high added value. I believe that the co-operative's necessity was a necessary prerequisite for this development, as it made it possible to invest significant funds and other investors, which in turn increased the benefits not only for mastic producers and the association of mastic producers but also for the Greek economy as a whole. Apart from the fact that mastic is a natural monopoly, and therefore the necessity does not affect other production units, and in addition to the fact that there has never been any objection to the compelling by the mastics' ranks, the use of mastic makes all arguments for undermining free competition unnecessarily obsolete. Investments and new forms of product exploitation have created growth potential, have brought new jobs, have stimulated the local society and economy, and I dare also say, Minister, that they have also created what we call 'cooperative conscience' to producers. The combination of the cooperative spirit and the extroverted and innovative development activities of the Chios Mastic producers' Union has now yielded excellent results and, apart from the fact that the possible abolition of the complicity of the association of mastic producers finds it contrary to all mastic producers, it is also economically irrational. The forced nature must not only be maintained, but must also be further shielded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u668	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u669	Mr President, I am really going to agree with everything you have said on the offer of compulsion. I'll take you a little bit further. It is so great that I believe that even if the abstinence occurs, such a consciousness of cooperative function has been created for all the inhabitants of Chios, for all mastic producers, which will in fact not affect the situation at all. Nevertheless, I repeat that, for us today, the decrees, the ministerial decisions that serve the compulsion, and this situation will continue until we have to approach the framework otherwise - that in the future, but I hope there will not be - and at the same time, of course, any impact, especially on the operation of the cooperative in Chios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u670	We enter the second under number 510/9-2-2016 topical question by MP Kavala of the New Republic of Nicholas Panagiotopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on licences for tuna fishing for 2016. The question will be answered by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u671	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, this is a really difficult day, when, of course, the House's building offers more security than, say, the Ministry's building, because today farmers' mobilisations are escalating, not because they are so satisfied that contributions to some income scales will only increase by 10 euros, as the Minister responsible told us a little while ago, but because contributions to all income scales - in the higher proportions - will be multiplied by farmers who are already unable to pay those that are in place. That is the reason for this strong protest, and the extra reason is that they feel and are deceived on the basis of what the government and the Prime Minister announced last year, about this time, a little earlier. This dual cause, therefore, brings this current explosion. I, however, came here to talk about a smaller scale, but also catastrophic, not to say scandalous, unfair. On the basis of the Ministerial Decision adopted on 30-12-15, where thirty-seven tuna fishing authorisations were granted for 2016, the timeline of the question is based on the fact that the fishing season begins in a few days' time of 1 March 2016. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. What was the decision to change the evaluation criteria, so that the granting of a licence can be rationalised, in the Ministry's view? Be careful, it introduces an important criterion, that of the mobilisation of total production, not only tone, but also swordfish and longer tone. According to this particular rationale, someone who wants to get permission to fish for tuna must also produce the production, the fish, not only the tuna but also the swordfish. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This, Minister, does not seem to me to be rational, seems to me to be a picture so that people can be thrown out of the door and some to get into the licenses. Apart from that, it is also introduced as a criterion in the previous year for the submission of data, the year of submission of the application until 31 August, and it is not taking into account social, economic and spatial criteria that were applied by the repealed decision, such as the years of employment in fisheries - why so? - What's the point of the border area? (ii) the breakdown by region which seems to be extremely rational. The change was not notified in time. But some people found out in time. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. At the same time, other areas such as the East Macedonia and Thrace, which are the largest fishing grounds in Greece, were wronged, first in the production of catches of thirty thousand tonnes - not fish, but in the measurement of all types - with two and a half thousand fishermen and eight hundred and ten vessels. It is the largest natural fishing grounds in Greece. The change was not notified in time. But some people found out in time. On the thirty-seven licences granted for 2016, the twenty-seven licences were granted not in a specific region, but on a given island at the same time other regions, such as the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace, which is the largest fishing grounds in Greece, were unjustified to produce catches of thirty thousand tonnes - not the fish, but to measure the weight of all types - with two and a half thousand fishermen and eight hundred ten vessels. It is the largest natural fishing grounds in Greece. Other injustices, however, have been committed. Another written question was tabled by Mr Kavada from Lefkada. There was a licence issued in the region, but this licence has not been the one issued for years by a fishermen from the Calamos island. I wonder what else one can deal with in the Calamos island, apart from tuna fishing, and as a result this man - who in any case does not live in a central area, a fishing centre - feels very unfair. These injustices are great, Minister. It is also very deplorable that permits should be granted, by changing the criteria. I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you. I'll propose to you. Change the decision and enter the anchovy or the sardine in the quantities taken. Let's not get caught by the tonnages, let's get the purse seines on him. Where anchovy herds go to gather, in the light of the light of the light of the light of the light, tons of carnivorous fish come, as we know - and they drive the herds away. So there is damage to these fishermen too. So count on the varnishes, see if the balances will be restored and the licenses will be distributed more rationally. The rest in dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u672	You'll be a little limited to your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u673	Yeah, I'll be confined.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u674	Come on, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u675	Certainly for the mobilisations and the comments are followed by the timely question, so we shall be talking in detail. I won't watch you. Now, as far as smart people are concerned - because they are smart people, as you have been trying to approach the issue - I will tell you the following: There is a ministerial decision, which defines mobilisation conditions in detail and on the basis of this ministerial decision, the evaluation by the agencies has been carried out. We had ninety-eight applications in total and thirty-seven licences were granted, for the simple reason that the number of fish was too small. We're talking about a hundred and eighty-two tons. The main criterion for evaluation was the production of large pelagic vessels, i.e. tuna, swordfish and longer tuna. The production was derived from the data from the electronic calendar, the completion of which in respect of the three species was compulsory as from 1 January 2015. No criteria for the allocation of licences per region are set out in the Decision. Licences were granted on the basis of this Decision and the centralised list of all Greek flag vessels granted each year for bluefin tuna fishing licences must be forwarded to the European Commission in order to obtain approval for the commencement of fishing. We have submitted the list, at least forty-five days before the start of the fishing season, i.e. before 1 March. By applying the new Criteria System for the first time for 2016 licences, it was found that there was a concentration of licences, based on the criteria on a particular island - say it - Kalymnos, twenty of the thirty-seven licenses. Although this, of course, reflects the quality of fishing vessels registered in Kalymnos, the island's tradition in the fishing industry and the professionalism of the local fishermen, were real reactions. And not only were there reactions from the region yours, but there were from Lefkada, from Evia to 'intensive', as you mentioned, a concentration of permits in Kalymnos. So, acknowledging the need to exploit as much as possible the small - I repeat - the Greek quota for bluefin tuna, but also at the same time seeing the reactions that will exist - because, we are working on them all - we are prepared to improve the molecules system - what is mentioned in the Ministerial Decision - but, at the same time, maintaining objective criteria, but at the same time creating a kind of, I would say, regional parking. The aim is, therefore, to increase the spread of licences in the regions, but without, as I have said, dismantling the system in terms of the quality and capacity of vessels. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u676	Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u677	I will say another clever because I have reeds today: the term "barbas in Koronis" is converted into "bambas in Kalymnos", because when seven licenses come to you in 2015, twenty in 2016, an increase of about 300%, tripling, while the others are kept at the same levels, plus one, in this case for the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace minus one licence, then I think something is going on and it's Investigative. It's an investigator, something's wrong, because you've put your signature on it. Aren't you worried about asking for information from those who led you to this thinking to sign?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u678	Kavala doesn't she?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u679	Kavala doesn't have one. It had previously, but it has the greatest catch, my dear colleague. This is the largest fishing spot in Greece in the north Aegean. As I told you, damage occurs. I'll come back with this story. I propose to you at the moment, in order to be serious, that you extend the right to grant licences, also strengthening the licences in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace, but soon. I suppose this requires a reform of the criteria on the basis of which the ministerial authorisation decision was based, because the fishing period begins next month. This is the result of damages to fishermen and fishermen in the region, damage to the local economy. All I can say is that the catch quota, which is the authorised limit for this year, during the restrictions imposed on us by the European Union, is 182 tonnes, as far as I know. This amount could export a local fishing company to Kavala in one year, only one operation that was shopping, of course, by local fishermen and by fishermen from Central Macedonia, perhaps even from Thessaly, not beyond. In one year, a company could catch the European quota. These people feel damaged and want to ask you to restore this injustice, not to cast down the Kalymnons who, however, let us admit here that they have been over favoured, not to say scandalously. Treat them with a sense of justice, dispensing some licenses to those who have been wronged and to the isolated fishermen of Kalamos who have no other way of living and only one is, and until now have been licensed throughout their entire professional life, but also to the rest of the other parts of the country, especially from that of its largest fisherman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u680	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u681	Mr. Comrade, you weren't the first smart-ass. You had a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u682	I told you, I've got strips today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u683	For God's sake. "Something wrong"? Is it possible that the Minister will be able to monitor if he goes half a ton of swords there, half a ton further?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u684	Six, twenty? From seven, twenty? Do we put the swords in it, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u685	Leave those smart ones alone. I don't like them. I want to make one thing clear. Don't expect this to be amended this year. The decision is specific and, of course, the regulation is specific, which says that only for reasons of operational problems or force majeure can change. So there is no such thing and I tell you that because the interest of fishermen, especially in the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, was not important. It's not like you call it. Only five fishermen applied for a tuna licence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u686	Give me three.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u687	One was granted a fishing licence, one was excluded because he did fall under the criteria, while the remaining three raised fewer molecules than was required to grant a licence at a pan-Hellenic level.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u688	Because they weren't looking for swords.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u689	I mean, even if the decision is changed, those three will still stay outside. Furthermore, in application of the previous decision of the evaluation for the year 2015 in your region, only two fishing vessels had been allocated. So you insist yourself. In other words, do you want an undertaking to give the hundreds of eighty-two tons, when we talk next door about twenty fishermen in Kalymnos who took much smaller quantities? So, are these the approaches you're making?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u690	A commercial, a lot of fishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u691	Licences shall be valid each year. There's no asset that I got it this year and next year. So, next year, when there may indeed be some problems in terms of moleculosis - which of course do not pose a particular problem in your region - we will see it for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u692	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u693	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will be taken at number 6/6/27-11-2015 timely question by Members of the PA.SOK - DIMAR etc. Michael Gelloni, Georgiou Arvanitides, Evangelos Venizelos, Leonida Gregorakos, Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Vassilios Kegeroglou, Charas Kefidou, Ioannis Koutsoukou, Dimitrios Kremastiou, Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Andreas Loverdou, Ioannis Maniatis, Theodoros Papatheodorou, Konstantinos Scandalidis, Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on unjustly tax-paid measures for farmers promoted by the Government instead of National Development and Production Reconstruction Plan. For today's debate by SYRIZA, Mr Papadopoulos Nikos is appointed Parliamentary Representative. From the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr. Ilias Kashiaris is appointed as Parliamentary Representative. Mr George Mavrotas, Member of Parliament, is appointed from the Potami. Also, by the Independent Greeks, Georgios Lazaridis and by the Association of Centres is appointed as a Parliamentary representative Mr Megalamoustakas Anastasios. Finally, according to the declaration of the Democratic Association, the series of speakers from the signatories is the following: Cheletis Michalis, Koutsoukos Ioannis, Manatis Ioannis, Scandalidis Konstantinos, Kegeroglou Vassilis, Arvanitis Georgios, Konstantopoulos Dimitris. The first Member of Parliament has the floor for ten minutes, Mr. Michael Jellélez.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u694	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, our question is happening today, with farmers in Athens and in the Constitution. However, the farmers, Mr Minister, who are now in Athens to protest, are neither motivated nor tax-gunkers, nor black blocks, nor private tanks. They are farmers who resist government arbitrariness. The rural world still has a soul and shows it. And the farmer claims his right to be able to grow his fields and to live in his village. Minister, the farmer may endure everything, as long as he does not feel that he is so uninvited as your Government. Our question is to highlight exactly the problems that the rural area has and the inconsistencies of your words and works. The coup d'état since January 2015, with its so-called proud negotiations and creative vagueness, managed to make the Greek people's real problems big in the crisis. The inability of governance SYRIZA - ANEL proved to be with the capital controls, with the referendum, with the signature of the third memorandum and then the follow-up. Tragmatic consequence of the most successful memorandum signed by Mr Tsipras - Kammenos is the impoverishment of farmers, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises in the rural economy. Instead of motivating them to produce more and more competitive products in the midst of the crisis and ensuring maximum nutritional adequacy for the Greek people, the government has declared them - unfortunately - the war, by promoting tax and insurance regulations, which lead farmers to mathematical accuracy - producers to absolute poverty, lead to the dissolution of agricultural production, and then a number of measures that you have already taken in 2015. And don't tell us again your well-known word, 'but you also voted for the memorandum'. This is not an alibi, and we must finally come to an agreement, because the lies and the margins of communication on your part are now over. Yes, we voted for the rescue agreement, because the country had to continue its European course. However, we have repeatedly stressed that we did not agree with these measures. On the other hand, with your communication manipulations, you described these measures as "floor plaques" in the agricultural sector before the referendum, while then you constantly stated that with your negotiating capacity and your programme, the famous "parallel program" - in the baptisms you are good - you will plunder them and that you will take less painful measures. On the other hand, you are coming today as government and you are taxing even where the wine tax was not provided for, for example, by automatically dismantling the wine industry and the viticulture. You have no proof that where you have a financial hole, you get it from agricultural income. The measures promoted are anti-development, socially unfair, and are based on a systemic form of total tax-suppressive logic. They show clearly and clearly the complete revulsion of your Government towards the primary sector, your lack of preparation for the agricultural issues that have today led the whole rural world to the blockades. I ask you, Minister, what exactly did you think when you took these decisions on measures that eliminate agricultural production? You thought that you could rather catch the multi-dimensional trade unions and unorganised professional farmers, sleep, and thus collect from the agricultural sector as much revenue as possible, which could channel to wider financing of the deficits and the insurance funds, as well as the public funds. For Mr Katrugalos's legal counter-reformation is nothing more than an attempt to deceive farmers, transferring to their backs the responsibilities that do not belong to them. You ask farmers to solve the problem of your own government's inertia, your own failure, turning them into land workers, shrinking the primary sector and impoverishing one of the main pillars of development, the primary sector. You are attempting secretly to make farmers patrons again to live. All this at a time when the implementation of the new CAP begins, with a view to the gradual convergence of Community subsidies at national and Community level by 2020. This convergence, however, is being removed with mathematical accuracy because of the tax-parallel measures you impose on the agricultural sector in our country. Community subsidies, Mr Ministers, are not given to be used as an easy fund to cover budgetary deficits, but to produce cheap and quality products and to protect the environment. Community subsidies cannot be considered as easy prey. And the Prime Minister comes by his proclamation the other day and asks for a dialogue with the farmers. You should discuss it. But what, Prime Minister? Why is this: When did you tell the truth? When you electionally fed everything to everyone or now with the measures you have already taken and others that you have already promoted, such as the tripling of insurance contributions from 7% to 20%, which together with health goes to 27% and the increase in tax advances from 27.5% to 55% that you have already gone and where you plan to go to 75% and then 100%? By abolishing the tax return for diesel you've already taken? By increasing the rate of taxation from 13% to 26% for income from the first euro, which you are already promoting? By imposing the tax on the wine you've already taken? With the increase in VAT on the Aegean islands you have already taken it? With the 40% increase in the price of the agricultural current you're planning? Previously, the OECD toolbox was on order. You said you would have done it for seven days, five days. Instead, you gave the industrialists the right to fix the date, and now we're going for 11 days. Leave the delay in the payment of compensation and subsidies and in the transfer of OPEKEAPE and ELGA reserves to the Bank of Greece. And this late payment of the CAP you have made, since you took over, made it incomprehensibly, without information and transparency. With all this, you are now turning agricultural income into agricultural income. The aid of 20 billion for the period 2015-2020 is a conquest for the primary sector of the country for the continuation of its production process in order to cope with international competition. We did not put our backs as PASOK - with our successful negotiation - in order to secure these resources for the country and farmers, to become the spoil in your hands today and to satisfy your most disgraceful tax dreams. Farmers in recent years have received their aid and their compensation on time. It is what contributed decisively to the necessary financing of production in conditions of economic crisis so that farmers can produce unaffected. This advantage was lost for 2015 with capital controls and the total inability of banks to finance farmers. In 2015, it was a crucial year for the completion of the payments and investments of the 2007-2013 Rural Development Programme. Really, what is the assessment from this Rural Development Programme? Did he cover his goals? Because by saying that you have paid objections from previous years, you do not offer any service, nor can you hide. To say how many projects and how many beneficiaries will go through as committed obligations in the new programme 2015-2020, reducing the possibilities for integration of young farmers and beneficiaries into the new programmes. You're saying you paid 2 billion. You mentioned this in the House several times. Even the Prime Minister told Faliro at your anniversary celebration. It's true. You lately paid the single payment in December, half the money, 50%, and the rest, good Easter and wait! And to stop this, Minister, if you think you are telling the truth, now go out in the Constitution, which farmers have started to gather, and ask their opinion to see if they agree with what you say by misinforming them or what I have pointed out to you now. Now, now, you're all understood. And myths are now over. You are confronted with your choices. And today's rural crisis is a product of your own unsuccessful policy. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is bound by his own deadlocks, which is why he continues to plunder and divide. He discovers enemies everywhere. Awkward and pressed by the two serious crises created by his own government, he tried by means of a proclamation to open up pretext channels and channels of communication with farmers. Sadly, however, it is now too late. This lukewarm call does not find a wishful ear to farmers because they do not trust you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. The indignation of farmers is now overflowing and one is their message: "Take it all back to discuss." The agricultural problem is not solved by retrospective dialogues and irresponsible ministers, as you yourself call for. The agricultural issue must be part of a national plan for productive reconstruction in the country to exploit the comparative advantages of agriculture, livestock and fisheries, which retains the autonomy of the OGA, to promote the universal expansion of the application of the mine, to maintain the duty-free and irreparable benefits of subsidies and production aids. The agricultural issue must also be part of a productive reconstruction plan in the country that exploits every possibility of the CAP, will support young people who have chosen to engage professionally in the agricultural sector, will establish the electronic oil card - we have tabled you a proposal for this, but you have not accepted it - will establish policies for the use of land and water, policies to increase added value, genetic and multiplier material. Above all, however, it requires the immediate notice of the Agricultural Development Programme 2015-2020, about 6 billion, secured by the previous governments. There is already a significant delay in this too. In conclusion, I would like to say that the days we have lived, Mr Minister, are very critical in all respects and your responsibilities historically. We finally invite you to listen to the voice of reason. We call on you to make the political choice of resolving the real problems of the rural area, not the dissolution of the country's productive fabric. Unfortunately, if this insurance and tax burden, eroded by ideologies, is not withdrawn, it will be absolutely disastrous for the rural economy, agriculture and the agri-food sector, with adverse effects on exports, on the commercial balance and therefore on the country's overall budgetary figures. We hope, however, that at the last minute reason will prevail. Otherwise, the national damage will be irreparable and I do not think you would like to have the designation of the 'incorruptible' of the rural economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u695	The President of the PASOK Democratic Group has the floor - DIMAR Mr Fofi Generations for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u696	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the results of your government's policy on agriculture today can be seen on the streets of Athens. However, I would also like to address the farmers. Don't let your fair demands be buried by the few thermo-heads. We will be with you, on your side, as long as you understand that there are other Greeks facing problems and struggling to survive. Open the streets! Tell 'no' to violence and division! Of course, we condemn the violence and authoritarianism of the government towards farmers. This is the first time that such an operation is planned at the expense of demonstrators. And I fear that from now on it will be a permanent situation on the streets of Athens. Ladies and gentlemen, farmers demand that the government take back the unacceptable and exterminational draft law on insurance. So do we. We have repeated this on all tons. This proposal dissolves the social security system, strengthens tax evasion, strengthens tax evasion, leads to unemployment, leads to black work, and of course turns pensions for young generations into tips. Get it back, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Even today, you continue the intransigence and the same mistakes. You find no positive point in the farmers' demands. You are not trying to go to a substantial dialogue with them. Every day you truly amaz us in the negative way you are trying to deal with them. You said that they were all farmers' taxmen, that they were privileged, that they were selfish. You have reached the point of comparing the tractors with the tanks, Minister. You said they were intertwined. But what else are we gonna hear today? Listen: Without a plan, without a programme, without an honest dialogue, problems are not solved. The government's measures for farmers are unfair, are disastrous, and that is why they cannot be accepted! Farmers and farmers from Evros to Crete are on the streets, Mr Minister? Because you deceived them. But you told them by election and others you are doing more today after the elections. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would like to take this opportunity to express your gratitude to the Commission for its efforts in this area. Along with the farmers, you are being mortgaged and any developmental future the Greek region has, so the Greek economy, Greece itself. Instead of progressive solutions, you chose the slander, the conflict. So what did you choose? Just the communication management of the problem. Is that what you meant, Minister, when you said you'd mess with the few and the strong? Did you think of the farmers? The government has a decisive role, which you systematically deny, has a duty to rule. Hey, go ahead, Minister! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You have wondered why the farmers' reaction is so intense and massive? No documentation has been submitted to date why farmers must lose their insurance institution, the OGA, which gives them a professional status. Why do they have to pay three-fold insurance contributions in relation to today's contributions? Why should they make contributions to 27% of their income at the moment, in fact, when their taxation is dramatically increasing from 13% to 26% and the advance tax from 55% to 100%? And all this in a year. And that is not all because they know the overall package very well: the abolition of agricultural oil, the imposition of excise duty on wine, and, of course, the great delays in the payment of subsidies and compensation and the commitment of the OPEKEPE and ELGA reserves. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government cannot assess which areas can be the pillars for the economic development of the country. Where will growth begin, where will wealth be produced to escape the present painful economic situation. The Greek primary sector can offer safe and quality food for 11 million Greeks and twenty-six million visitors and export agricultural products worth 5 billion euros. It feeds the food and beverage industry, which is the most important sector in the Greek manufacturing industry. The government, however, shows that everything that is productive is being extorted in this place. And, of course, they realize it, too, and they turn your back. You did not ask yourself, Mr Ministers, why do these farmers' mobilisations first lead young farmers? The most innovative and hopeful, productive potential the Greek society has today, in front of you, on the streets, throughout Greece. As the measures notified hit the production process, they eliminate the producers. You can, in fact, make 60% to 80% of their income to pay taxes and contributions. You condemn, Minister, the Greek region in decline. Young people, with innovative ideas that give life to the countryside, are now being destroyed. You personally, Mr Apostleou, often call upon us to create the register of farmers. Don't you know that the register has been running since 2011 and is active? You're Minister for Rural Development and Food! What hides this disinformation? Do you want to divide the farmers, by closing the eye on some, as you used to do in SYRIZA? I don't know if you understand, but based on what you're saying, you're going to get out of production the small and medium-sized ones who have a small supplementary income from elsewhere to survive. In other words, you strike down those who are in disadvantaged, mountainous and island regions. And the "first time on the left" what is he trying to do? To make allies big owners. This explains why at the moment at the points of protest the majority are young people who see that SYRIZA's choice is with the old, not with the new, not the future, with what they themselves are trying to build. I shall refer to a number of points which demonstrate the incompetence, inadequacy and indifference of the Government for the rural world. First of all, farmers are protesting, for example, about the lack of financial support from the CAP, money that is available and that is not about the country's financial difficulties. By October 2015, the aid had to be repaid by 1 December 2015. It's money that reaches about 2 billion. Half have been given late in December and thousands of farmers are currently freezing on the streets, waiting for Community money that they are ponding, Minister. Now the advance payments had to be made and nothing has been done. My assessment is that not in 2016, as the government goes, will be able to pay, depriving farmers, in a period of lack of funding, of significant resources that would help them produce. That's just tragic. Secondly, farmers are complaining about the high cost of supplies, oil and electricity. The reimbursement of the Special Consumption Tax was abolished in 2015. But this is where the 2013 balances were not given - 50% we - and all the 2014 money. No new geothermal field has been opened to reduce the cost of energy. We had opened the first three in New Erasmio, Erateno Chrysopoli and Nigrita. That's where we stayed. I'm afraid so. For a year absolutely nothing. Same for the management of surface water in dams, lakes, irrigation with flow in the garden, etc. It's all the way we left it. The new ‘ALEXANDROS BALTATZIS’ programme did not open, despite the fact that the new CFP started from 1-1-2015. Third point: Farmers have not received any euros for financial support since the 2015 programme and nothing in 2016. They rightly call for the cost of feedingstuffs. We did the legislative framework at the time to define for the first time the concepts of grazing land. The question of the early preparation of their management plans by local authorities has been settled, and nothing has been done since then. You've legally changed the status of studies on management plans. Why? "To go..." - they say - "...to private scholars". Good. The delay in this change, however, did you not consider it? Already left in 2015, progressed in 2016. Did the thousands of studies become? Are their contracts done? Did anyone testify to you? Oh, no! I also hope that you do not, as has happened in the past, limit the money for agricultural research, technology and education for farmers. Why do you insist that you support it? However, one year more than you have been unable to hire a researcher. Let's do one! The 100 posts of the institutes that were established - were declared in 2014 - eight hundred applications were submitted by doctoral scientists and you did not hire one. And you're talking about a smarter agriculture! And shed crocodile tears because they leave abroad Greek scientists with important studies! Unfortunately, you are once again proving to be tragically inadequate. Not only can you create something new, but you are destroying everything that we have built. But farmers also have knowledge and memory. Ladies and gentlemen, as announced by ELSTAT, the first year of SYRIZA - ANEL in the economy closed with a recession of 0.7% compared with 2.9% in the 2015 budget, with all international organisations then moving into the same forecasts. The difference of 3,6 units corresponds mid-weight to loss of only 720 million for the insurance funds, which, unfortunately, will be more than double in the 2015-2016 years, probably very close to the 1.8 you are looking for. In Greek simply, you have raised the whole society with the insurance, trying to cover the deficits created under your sole responsibility! That's the truth, gentlemen of the government! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] That's exactly what explains why with the insurance, the glass is over. Farmers want to contribute to the national effort, provided they can continue to produce. And finally stop the lies that expose you. A few days ago - I think earlier in this Chamber - the Minister of Labour claimed that farmers will only pay more than EUR 150 a year for contributions to the OGA, because - he says - most today is in the third category. But the truth is that in this category farmers will pay more than EUR 600 a year if their annual income is less than EUR 5,600. And be careful, EUR 2.100 more if their income is EUR 8 000. That's the truth. The Prime Minister told us that farmers will have higher pensions, and he knows very well that in the 2016 budget government funding for the OGA will be EUR 100,000,000 less. But lies have short feet. For us, it is clear that we cannot get out of the crisis without developing agriculture and livestock. But there can be no development of agriculture and livestock with no income. The sooner the government accepts these simple truths and changes policy, the better for the country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Fotinis Genders is ringing at this point.]] Madam President, I would like a little more time, because I would not just like to stay in criticism. It is now time to launch the dialogue on the role of the primary sector in the National Production Reconstruction Plan. The quality of our products, the human potential, the synergies with tourism, the 20 billion CFP funding are possibilities and elements of a national plan for the productive reconstruction of the country. The Democratic Reconciliation has already taken this initiative. Two months ago our parliamentary group held a very important dialogue conference with all the forces, the people of primary production. We stressed there that our basic choices are the production of quality products with identity, but also the interconnection of agricultural production with tourism, processing and health. All fifteen proposals that we have tabled in public for dialogue are aimed, on the one hand, at reducing production costs and improving its organisation and, on the other, at promoting and placing our products on European and international markets. I am presenting today for the Minutes of Parliament these fifteen points which are political commitments for us. [[At this point the President of the PASOK Democrat Association - DIMAR Mr Fotini Generations submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] We declare that we will discuss them with the whole rural world on each side of the country, because we must sincerely, with a new spirit, develop a new plan for the country's recovery with them. Because we believe in the rural world and we will rely on it to overcome the crisis. In the context of this productive national planning, we can also see the individual issues of insurance and the issues raised by farmers, for the maintenance of the OGA, a universal extension and implementation of the herd, first and foremost the insurance of micro-professionals in communities and islands up to 1,000 inhabitants in the OGA, the maintenance of tax-free and incompatible production aid. Each proposal, however, should be linked to their prospects and certainty that there is tomorrow and indeed that there may be a better tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a necessary parentheses here. It is our opposition to the irrational demands and obsessions of the International Monetary Fund. These were repeated, unfortunately, by yesterday's reports by Mr Tomsen. I would point out, however, that Mr Tomsen personally bears serious responsibility for the design, the mistakes of the programme and the negative consequences that this has brought to Greek society with the excessive recession. I would, therefore, agree on the need for bold reforms, but the fund must finally understand that it must put an end to the punishing policies towards citizens, which can only create additional deadlocks. This also concerns the question of the evaluation of the programme currently under way. The Democratic Reconciliation, to return to the subject, supports the fight against farmers. We ask them, however, once again to link this struggle to the claims of the entire Greek society, keeping the streets open and ensuring the normal economic and social life of the country, as we ask the government to put an end to this catastrophe, to accept the dialogue from a zero point. We ask the government to rule, finally assume its responsibilities and serve responsibly with regard to the Greek people, unless you have decided, Minister, to escape. But then tell us. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, will have to make it clear what you want. You want elections? Would you like another government with the participation of all pro-European forces, as we suggest? Will you participate in such a national effort or do you, in the midst of a crisis, want to stay the security of Antipoliticism, so sit on the river bank flying stones, waiting to see the political bodies of others pass? The political strategy of the mature fruit has hit the country very seriously. The Greek society should remain united in a very tough negotiation to get out of the crisis and preserve the historic acquis of the country's stay in Europe and in the Eurozone as an equal member. Ladies and gentlemen, the PASOK and the Democratic Alliance supported and supported farmers. Together we changed the country and country. Our ties are not superficial. They were stable and mutual. That is why today they are discussing the possible solutions with confidence, the one your Government has permanently lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u697	Thank you, Mrs. Birthday. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u698	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the government does not understand. He does not understand why farmers have been on the road and he does not understand, above all, why the struggle is being done with this intensity and this mass involvement, unprecedented for many years, since the slogans "all the pounds, all the money". Now, however, the slogan is survival, because the rocky, the dome made up of tax and insurance measures is the one that drowns the farmer, the farm and gives no prospect to him and his children. Ladies and gentlemen, we have previously heard the Minister for Social Security is in his world. Mr. Katrugalos did not understand that in 1997 the OGA became the main insurance fund and left the philosophers of the 1960s. He was away then, he read. He did not realize that today there is no EUR 172 pension that he says by mocking farmers, because farmers who are insured will also get the basic and get the extra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u699	What's the main thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u700	The base is 170 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u701	And Mr Katrugalos forgets that he is part of a party that was engaging in the political survival of the funds and told the farmers 'we will give you the 13th pension' and now he has cut them off on the 12th. And I hear Mr Alexiadis, why does Mr. Tsakalotos not come out and say, "Children, why are you shouting? There is no tax bill, it is frozen." Frozen are the hearts and souls of farmers, ladies and gentlemen, because they know how to read and have seen in their pocket to remove incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, have you read the attached page in the budget for the cost of budgetary interventions in the years 2015 and 2016? How, ladies and gentlemen, is the increase from VAT measures? It's about 1.7 billion. How long will it leave the farmers' pockets, have you figured it out? Make a simple calculation, you're on duty. Add the added value with the increased rate. How much was the factor? It was 13%. Where did they take him? 23%. How old is he? It's 10%. About 500 million will leave the farmers' pockets. It's the lack of liquidity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u702	It's not all about what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u703	Look, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u704	Now, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u705	What's "san"? Come on, Minister, you. When we talk to you with numbers, you'll answer numbers and evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u706	I'll answer later with numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u707	Calm down. Mr. Kutsuko, you're wasting your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u708	How much is the Special Consumer Tax? Oil is 13 million. For the wine tax, Minister, which you put 20 cent per litre of, you estimated 130 million. You won't get 130 million, it's certain. But, you know, ladies and gentlemen, how much this burdens on the raw material of wine? It is 100%, unless we are from rural areas and we do not know how much the grapes do. Direct taxation provides for the advance of 114 million, from the increase in direct taxation to 32 146 in total, and I do not put the solidarity levy on it. Do you want us to account for the cost of the income tax on subsidies and the taxation of the Rural Development Programme? Ladies and gentlemen, you are saying so too, and the financial staff say that you have exempted the subsidies of more than 12 thousand. No falseer, as you read - I think you know letters - the Law 4172/2013 which imposed revenue and expenditure books at a rate of 13% and not 26%, you will see that specifically for the purpose of determining income from a rural enterprise, from a rural business activity, income from business transactions includes income from production. The law says it, and it only needed an interpretative circular, and you, in your attempt to collect it to cover the budget gap of 7.2 billion due to derailment, have also taxed subsidies. You put the 12 thousand cap on, but no one says tomorrow 12 can be 5 or go from 0.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u709	What do you think, Yannis? From production he says, he doesn't say any subsidies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u710	Yes, it says from production because, according to the European Union, subsidies are an increase in the cost of production in order for the European farmer to cope with the cheap costs of third countries. There is also an opinion from the European Commission on this. Mr Apostle had brought us here, when he was responsible for SYRIZA's agricultural policy, when Ciolos, the Commissioner, had arrived, but there were other times. Ladies and gentlemen, the farmer feels this deduction of incomes from indirect and direct taxation in his pocket. More than 1 billion is and let Mr Apostle bring us other accounts. And this liquidity is missing from the farmer and cannot produce. And Mr. Apostleu says he went to Mrs. Katseli and they'll give him a card. A card guaranteeing aid, a single payment. But the single payment is guaranteed by the farmer, who guarantees it, when he goes to make the application for the OSCE to make the declaration of cultivation, by the "Piraeus TANDEZA". The farmer doesn't want you to guarantee him what he has, Minister. The farmer wants a guarantee fund with European Central Bank money, the rural TEMPUS, which will lever and credit the farmer. And to finish... [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Does it bother you, ladies? If what I'm saying isn't the way you go and tell the farmers on the roadblocks! There you go, if you have courage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u711	What's bothering us? You sold it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u712	Mr. Kutsuko, you've spent a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u713	I shall finish, Madam President, by holding two minutes for my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u714	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u715	So I say this: you are vanquishing a hopeful sector for Greece's exit from the crisis, the primary one, and at the same time destroying families. That's the first thing. Do you understand that? And if you realize that, do you mind taking measures to reduce costs, tax incentives for farmers' tax relief? To look brave, to make decisions for farmers to leave the streets to grow? Because if you don't make brave decisions, this story won't end well. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u716	Thank you, too. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u717	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my grief and suffering for the families of the three officers of the Navy, one of whom, Lieutenant Constantine Pananas, comes from Argolida, for the three officers who gave their lives for their homeland. Minister, outside this Chamber farmers are confronted with the logic of the government. You have called them tax fighters, selfish, far-right, intertwined, privileged. Is that so? Are these the farmers? If anyone treats them as equal citizens with all other Greek citizens, will he do them a favor? Let's see some peace, where are we today? Because it is of interest to the government's policy with social automation. Insidiously, underground, a rumour is drawn that farmers are the ones who are taxing, taxing, fleeing, not paying at the expense of the rest. Is it the way you call it? Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, a single number. The gross added value of the primary sector, according to ELSTAT, is EUR 5.4 billion and the country's primary sector is essentially the main pillar supporting the country's manufacturing industry and exports. I would remind everyone that six of the ten exporting producers in the country are agricultural products produced by Greek farmers. Therefore, saying that farmers are some who live at the expense of the rest of society simply unfairs the common simple logic of those who make this speech. Where are we now? VAT from 13% to 23%. Repeal of the Special Tax on Consumption. Tax on the wine. Twice the contributions to the OGA. The Income Tax from 13% to 26% -27%. OGA is repealed. All this against what social group? Is it a social group that creates businesses? In order to get together, farmers must be rewarded for their work. Farmers are incomprehensible to be taxed as businesses because farmers must be taxed as people who contribute their work, as people who work. As a result, being treated as business is again an injustice against Greek farmers. However, there is one issue that SYRIZA has done so against coroner, a profession - a doctorate, has SYRIZA acquired in it - when he has put questions to him to shoot at fair and unjust by making no proposal. We, because we are not the same as you, our President, the head of the Democratic Integration, Mrs Genuine, have tabled a package of fifteen specific proposals. You will allow me to analyse a little more than three of these proposals. First proposal: positive contribution to the public debate. An electronic farm oil card. We have tabled an amendment to you. It can be applied immediately. In March, the Greek farmer may have an electronic oil card and not a farmer's card, which is, in fact, a future mortgage on the contributions he receives from the European Commission. Secondly, I am always talking about lowering production costs. Energy clearing: We passed a provision in October 2014 that allows local energy agencies to install renewable energy sources and through electricity generation from renewable energy sources to reduce up to 60% of the cost of electricity and watering the fields. I will mention one example: in Argolida every year, the farmers who are part of the TWG are paying about EUR 1 million to PPC. With our proposal, 1 million can only be made at 400 000. We will save energy and 600 thousand more revenues in the pockets of Greek farmers. I'm on my third sentence. We also referred to the register of farmers, who have already registered seventy-four thousand Greek farmers and are constantly being updated. And since you're playing the courgettes a little, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr. Minister, and there's a struggle, an undergoing attempt to bring a division between farmers, we're putting you through this very simple proposal, since you're starting to discuss tax exemption issues. What is the main structural problem for Greek agriculture? It's the little lot. Do we have the possibility, ladies and gentlemen, by taxing farmers' collective organisations and thus giving farmers an incentive to join collective entities and thus gain from them, do we have the possibility through these tax exemptions to solve the basic structural problem of Greek agriculture, which is the small lot? We respond to you: Yes, if you have elementary maturity, if you can see just beyond the year when Greek public life runs, we can in five years from today when we are talking about a large part of the basic structural problem of Greek agriculture, the small lot, have solved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u718	Please finish, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u719	I conclude - and thank you very much for your understanding, Madam President - by saying this: Minister, we tabled yesterday all Members of the Democratic Incorporation a question which has the following basic question: The EUR 687,000 for irrigation projects proposed in December 2014 in the Juncker package for ten major projects in Pellas, Kozanis, Rethymno, Argolida and other prefectures, where is this package? I'm putting down the document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Juncker's package runs in France, Spain, Portugal. For Argolida, for example, the famous work of Anavalos, which the Older Republic called it "the deferred Anavalos" has joined the specific package with 100 million. Will you cancel or will you implement them? In particular, have you proposed to the European Commission your own list of new projects? Yes or no? Because if one year has passed, you are accountable to Greek farmers. We call on Greek farmers, ladies and gentlemen, to join the struggle for the rest of the Greek society. We also call on the Greek Government to draw the incomprehensible proposals of Katorugalou back. Only that way can this place find a way out and a quiet way out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u720	Mr. Maniatis, you've taken your time and your dentistry, which no one will ever give a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u721	Not all of them. Mr. Papadopoulos will give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u722	Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u723	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we must begin with a number of assumptions that we are all emphasizing, each in its own way, and we are projecting. The production reconstruction of the country without a national restructuring strategy for the agricultural sector and food processing does not exist. It is the first and most critical pillar of relaunching growth. Our question does not just come at a critical juncture with farmers mobilised. It comes at the critical juncture of both the stagnation and the stagnation of the Greek economy and the recession that the country has been experiencing for so many years and which has become ever greater. I am obliged, although I never do so, because there is talk of a lack of a national strategy, to recall that it was created and indeed with consensual procedures and without farmers going on the road, in a torture dialogue with themselves, an integrated institutional framework for the three years 2010-2012. If, Minister, the resolution of the cooperative movement was to be completed and farm-food partnerships were encouraged, if the auctions, regional baskets and conventional agriculture had gone ahead, if the ring of intermediaries with the register of farmers you have forgotten it and the register of traders established, had they shared the millions of acres to young farmers and the livestock units had been authorized, the scenarios, so that they could enter the second pillar of the CFP and take money and bring them to the country, to refer only to a few elbows of an integrated national strategy, today would be quite different. All this stayed in the middle, unfinishedly, was considered the legacy of the sinner yesterday, because all of this at first, every time, it begins to be for the glory of the endless Greek state and the weak memory or at all times the amnesia of the people who ruled, I was, of course, advanced by your own government at the level of amnesia. Otherwise, we all swear on the name of the reform, the modernisation of the people or on the fiddle of the 'first-time left' ideas. In practice, we build paper towers. What is the central problem for me to come to the subject today, emerging from space and from farmers' mobilisations? They're two at the same time. The cost of inputs has risen by over 30%, it has started from before, but has accelerated mainly in the time you are ruling. This increase makes the cost of production prohibited. At the same time, the corners of funding have been closed, whether by delaying payments, either by draining all possibilities through capital controls or through a series of procedures where the normal development of the agricultural sector is not as a follow-up to a policy, but as a start from a new start supposedly. This explosive mixture led here. They're not far-right, they're not swamps. Your policy triggers the mobilizations. We have a difference. We don't get to the tractors like Mr. Tsipras. This must therefore be fully understood. So the tax and insurance are coming to double the tax rates and at the same time call on farmers to enter the scheme for 100% tax advance. From what production? Which ones are they moving capital from? What safeguard? What transaction with the possibility of liquidity and the capital controls? The sustainability of small and medium-sized rural households, which is the vast majority of Greek farmers, is literally affected. They are threatened with extinction after being deceived by your unfulfilled promises. The vertebral column which supports primary production, the basis of the comparative advantage of the country is literally dismantled. The question, Minister, is whether there has been a negotiation so that we do not get here and if your ministry has been involved in it. Nowhere do you substantiate there has been a tough negotiation. In relation to the taxation of farmers, it seems that the Government has proposed the same measures that were not requested by the lenders. How else can we explain that, for example, subsidies are biased both at their source and here? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Madam President. The part of the tax paid by German farmers to involve the German State in the CAP's subsidies, you are retaxing it here. And I ask: is this compatible with the common agricultural policy and with European rules? If they found it an easy solution, why did you sign it and allow it? You have at least been able here to raise your head, hit your hand on the table and say: 'No, we do not accept double taxation for farmers' subsidies!' Because the way to undo your signature is to seek equivalents, which, unfortunately, have been step by step and there is no, you must seek ways of economic sustainability, both of production and of the producers themselves. Magic solutions don't exist. Instead of going into the complaint of the past, complete the economic and operational consolidation of cooperatives, finally proceed to the implementation of the institutional framework. Don't relegate legislative measures to start over from the beginning by pulling out the sweater. As there are no magical solutions, there are no easy solutions that give a direct answer, I confess! So take the tax and insurance back, discuss on a zero basis, legalise dialogue with farmers' trade unions and professionals. You need interlocutors. Without them you don't exist and you'll always be alone, locked up in a glass tower. I conclude by saying that the framework of a transitional phase until the exit from the memorandum must have two interrelated objectives. The President of the Democratic Integration has analysed an almost complete programme for this. There must be business and economic efficiency, social responsibility and solidarity. Yes, for farmers to bear the cost of social responsibility. But you first assume the responsibility of protecting and strengthening their production and of taking the cost of social solidarity together. If we cannot create a level of prosperity in the world again, in this painful rural world, at least let us guarantee them an elementary dignity. I think that the backbone of the Greek countryside, the backbone of the Greek state and of the Greek society, its potential production power and, unfortunately, the loneliest one, is worth it for such an effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u724	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u725	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about agricultural policy and agriculture. And we have a government that, in December and January, presented a proposal to the Greek people. It was a proposal which was voted on and, of course, none of it, which it promised, did not. It is therefore entitled ‘a strong government of political deception’. We come with all the foreign policies in the so-called 'democratic referendum' with the 'yes' carp. The polls "yes", which came as a result of the transformation of the "no" of the Greek people into a "yes" in tough measures of 14.5 billion, while calling on the people not to vote, not to consent in the framework agreed by the government itself and amounting to 8.5 billion in total. At that time, the Minister for Rural Development Mr Evangelos Apostlelos took the challenge here, which says: 'Lords, do not vote 'yes', vote 'no'. Because if you vote 'yes', you vote 'yes' in the harmonisation of the taxation of farmers with the free traders, increase the rate of taxation from 13% to 26%, increase the advance from 27% to 100%, tripling insurance contributions, abolishing the tax rate of 12 000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u726	You voted for them too, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u727	You know it. But you've written it! It also contains an increase in VAT from 13% to 23%, an increase in electricity prices, a abolition of support through agricultural oil, an increase in VAT on all supplies. And Vangelis Apostolos says: "The acceptance of this proposal would be a gravel for the rural area." And he's still a Minister for Rural Development, but for what? To implement it. That's right! After Mr Tsipras was turned into other people who said that the referendum was on the eve of the referendum, and others then said that he has a Minister, and you, with your political turn, must implement what you consider to be a tomb of the agricultural sector. It's more than that, Mr. Apostleu. It's the targeting of what creative and productive endured these years in this place. It's your mission, your dark mission, Mr. Apostleu. You played it in charge of the agricultural sector of SYRIZA and we enjoyed you here with the good ideas you had while you were opposition. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And the day before yesterday Mr Bolaris, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, came to congratulate - and rightly so - all the farmers of production and creation who have promoted their products, the excellent products produced by that country on European and international markets in the Greek market. In fact, we have products from Crete to Evros, and not, Mr Bolaris, only in Central Macedonia - there you know better - about olive oil, oilseeds in general, oilseeds, livestock products, cheese, honey and olives. Mr Bolaris referred to products such as compost, beans that have conquered European and international markets. And I enjoyed it at that time, because that's the way it is. However, Mr Bollaris at the end forgot to say that all this is the creation of these people in the circumstances that we have had so far. It is a creation of these people who, despite the crisis and the difficulties with the policies followed by the "extreme" PASOK governments, Mr. Bollaris, the overriding governments of the previous years have produced results. Despite the difficulties they have received these congratulations. And I'll give them double. However, today with the Apostle Agenda implemented - why does the Apostle play it as unauthorized, but the agenda bears its signature - how about next year and next year with the dam you are doing in the productive sector will we recongratulate? Are we going to be fascinated? I guess so! With regard to the tripling of contributions - which Mr Katrugalos came to tell us this morning that it is not so - we have to say that the third category is actually paying today EUR 954. By the end of the transitional period, how much will he pay? He'll pay 1516 euros. But in what case? Only if his income is under 8,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u728	Which is 88% of earnings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u729	If the farmer and his family dare - poorly want him the farmer - to have an income of more than EUR 8 000, he will pay EUR 2.156. Look at a man who says that the farmer must be poor in order not to pay a large contribution! The increase is 126%. And he has the courage - now if he is a nerve, I do not know - and he comes to tell us: 'Today, farmers receive a pension of EUR 170 and I take them EUR 2 000 to get EUR 384'. Because I consider you as a victim and in the next few days, I think, as a rival victim, they will use you - don't laugh! - We've been sympathizing and sympathizing with you from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u730	Luckily, I have friends!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u731	On a personal level, however, with regard to the mission you have undertaken to carry out, to "carry out" the Greek farmer, no, Mr Katrugale, we will ban you! OGA is not a problematic organization. OGA performs pre-innovative work and you know it very well. And of the EUR 3.3 billion that you said, most of it is for preferential pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u732	No, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u733	You don't? It's not no. It's for privileged pensions. I'll give you all the evidence in my denture. You will, however, have spoken. Make sure you're honest, because we'll have a number document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u734	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Arvanitides Giorgos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u735	I shall also use my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u736	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u737	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, now that the communication games are over, it is time to talk about the real problems. Yesterday you tried to convince your party audience that you were struggling with the conflict. You have brought such an important issue to debate with an amendment in the context of ratification of an international agreement with Belarus to avoid dialogue, because you have begun to fear it. Not even the rapporteurs and the special speakers had the opportunity to speak and to place themselves on the bill. But fireworks last for a while. Unfortunately for you, you are now forced to deal with the real problems of the country. Today's question is more than timely. We are talking about the problems of the rural world with farmers on the streets, the farmers who are raising the burden of your inability, the farmers who are slapping at every opportunity. It is a fact that your policy has targeted them provocatively. The burden you impose on them of taxation and insurance has been incurred by my colleagues and I do not want to extend them. I just want to remind you that these are just some of the results of your negotiating cowardice. What's the rest? Firstly, they are the Capital Controls, which created serious problems in the operation of the entire chain of agricultural production. Lack of liquidity, problems with the supply of agricultural supplies and fuels, problems with the export of agricultural products, problems with processing companies, in the food sector. Secondly, they are unjustified delays in state payments, delays in payment of advance payments, delays in payment of compensation from severe weather phenomena, delays in payment of the beneficiaries of various programmes. We have brought many of these issues to the House. We talked about the delayed payment of ELGA compensation to farmers affected by severe weather phenomena in 2014, and the damages of 2015 have not even begun to pay compensation. How can it begin after you transferred the ELGA reserves to the Bank of Greece and no one knows when and how much you will get back? For the associated rice aid, we have sweated to convince you of your self-evidentness. By Ministerial Decision in May you stated that the rice producers had to deliver and invoice the quantities of rice by 28 February to receive the associated rice aid of EUR 26 per hectare. We have managed to convince you that there is a need for further prolongation. You extended until 31 March. It must, of course, go until May 31st, because absorption continues. In Sindo, Chalastra, in western Thessaloniki farmers cannot sell their rice. In the first co-operative of Halastra from forty thousand tons, not even a thousand five hundred have been absorbed. In the second cooperative of Halastra from fifty thousand tons only four thousand have been absorbed. When we pointed out the problems of spreading lumpy rheumatitis in November 2015, the Ministry replied that the vaccinations had not been completed by the end of January 2016 in seven regional units of the country. I doubt that they are even done today. When we made proposals for the relief of producers as a Democratic Assent, you rejected them. You refused to introduce an oil card when you abolished the reduced taxation on oil. Our proposal was simple and very specific: A card in which the amount of oil that the farmer, farmer, farmer, fisherman and the supply of oil will be incorporated will be based on the extent and type of farming, as well as on the number of animals declared annually in the IACC. Voice voice in the wilderness! Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you do not have a national plan for agriculture and livestock. With your inadequacy and inability, you are driving the countryside to aeration and, in particular, farmers to economic impoverishment, especially the young farmers who have chosen to remain in the Greek region and who see that the policies you follow are tearing down their dreams. With your choices you have managed to bring all production Greece to your attention. Instead of dealing with the serious and listening to the problems of the rural world, you attack the farmers with the MATs. Change Root, ladies and gentlemen of the government, before it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u738	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. Mr Constantopoulos Dimitrios, Member of Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u739	To express my warmest condolences to the families of officers who were lost yesterday morning in the Aegean Sea. Sad and painful the emotions that perpetuate us all. Minister, until yesterday you made great promises to farmers to reinstate VAT at pre-memorandum levels, for cheap agricultural oil, for adjusting farmers' debts and for deleting some of these debts, for tax relief, for restoring the duration of the raw milk from the seven days to five. Here is the oxymot: Today you decide to define industrialists during the period of raw milk, which is ejected into eleven days. Today, not only are you getting everything back, but you are burdening them even more. Farmers are on the block and you ignore them. So, I ask, what is the country's new productive fabric, the country's productive fabric, which will get the country out of the deadlock tomorrow? What is your proposal for the new productive reconstruction of the primary sector? Put it in public consultation. To involve both the rural community and to take part in this rural university departments, institutes and research centres in order to achieve results. Agricultural production, Minister, suffers from four major structural problems. First, the little, the shredded lot. Secondly, the large ageing average in the rural population, with limited scientific and vocational training. Thirdly, the major shortages in rural infrastructures. Fourthly, the great cost of production. Instead, Minister, looking for solutions to these problems, you have increased VAT on agricultural supplies from 13% to 23%, OGA contributions, farm income tax, oil tax, electricity price, and you are asking for an advance payment of the next year's tax to 100%. You even tax payments, and even compensation. All this, of course, is launching the cost of production and it does not reduce it, which is what is needed for all of us. You were electionfully talking about a farmer's card, about subsidising low-interest loans with the figures of the crop declarations for the last two years. Today you bring the farmer's card. Farmers with a guarantee of the aid they are entitled to make payments by the banks of interest. The farmer is, in other words, pledged, giving the guarantee he is entitled to as a pledge, paying interest. Here our proposal, Mr Minister, is: no charge, no interest on the farmer's card. Farmer's register: We keep hearing about a register of farmers. I remind everyone that the register of farmers has been on PASOK's initiative since 2011. As a farmer, the 35% of his income was derived from agricultural work and was insured in the OGA. On this basis there were two hundred seventy-five thousand professional farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u740	Three-five percent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u741	It is important, Mr President, that we do not have to record some people in the register of farmers, but that the real farmers be supported. We're saying the NRP is a development tool. The ESDP can play a catalytic role. What do we see here? The NRP funds for farmers for 2016 were reduced from EUR 9 million to EUR 3 million. So, Minister, you are driving the agricultural sector into disinvestment. We are also waiting for projects from the Ministry of Development of EUR 6 billion to be launched. When will you do it? So I ask you what is the Ministry's planning for the payment of advance payments for compensation? What do you intend to do for farmers, for delays in the establishment and operation of livestock units, for the authorisation of stable facilities? Last week, Minister, I informed you of the problems of Valtos Eatokarnania. Nine applications are stacked in the drawers of the Aetolokarnania Forest in Amphilochia. We're still waiting for your actions. Minister, the price of products from the field on the shelf has been opened a lot. You know that well. This difference is much higher than the European Union's average. I would like to inform you that all the other countries choose as a solution to strengthening cooperative structures, contractual agriculture, improving transport infrastructure. So, I ask you, what are you going to do to reduce this lane? Secondly, if our aim is the quality products that give high added value, then genuine support for young farmers who are engaged in innovative biological, old and new products is needed. You must aim to develop agricultural research and technology, re-notify support services and activate them. What about the NATIONALE and regional research institutes? Are you going to develop synergies with university institutions to highlight local comparative advantages or not? What is the Ministry's plan to strengthen rural education and research? What is your design to better inform the farmer about opportunities given to him? You have been electorally advertised on specific sectoral and spatial policies. So far, we haven't heard a word. So bring to Parliament your detailed planning for the rural development of the site. We're waiting for him. However, get back to the insurance and tax bill that brought farmers on the road. Call them into a fruitful and constructive dialogue. Call them, indeed, to find the way to rural development that we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u742	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The President of the Centro Group, Mr Leventis, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u743	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of many wings, nonetheless, because society and the people and representatives of the parties are listening, I felt obliged to speak about farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u744	At the initiative of the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u745	Yes, of course, the initiative belongs to the Democratic Reconciliation. You are democratic, I hope you will also be democratic, because not everyone who is a democrat, a democrat. You know that. I have no objections. Farmers have no problem taking them from twenty to fifteen, as Mr Katrugalos or Mr Tsipras perhaps thinks. Farmers feel strangers in this country. The cost of production is higher than the disposal prices of their products. They feel strangers in this country. The primary sector thinks it is not a future sector. It is the fault of PASOK too, who for thirty years appointed their children to PPC and OTE and left the idea of exploiting the land. They'd rather take all the kids to ELTA or PPC. It's no accident you saw a big farmer who had three hundred acres and put his kid in the ELTAs. To make sure he did. These are the sick attitudes we pay for. Now, we've reached an extreme point. What point? They must doubt whether they can live or rather be sure that they cannot live. I went through all the blockages and had conversations with all party origins farmers. They didn't tell me: “Tell Mr. Katrugalo in the 20th to do it. And nothing to do with it, we're not dating." That's what they told me. And the government comes from which I would expect some sensitivity, rather than bend to the problem of these people, who feel that Kolonaki has government and sees the countryside as wasters, rather than bend to the problems of the people, you call them tax-guns, bad people, far-rights. This is the most foolish way to defend a bad government into people's problems so stressful and agonizing. Any tyrant could do it, call them far rightists and troublemakers. They came from Crete. I saw some scenes. Their guns were a glimpse and the MATs were outdated. In other words, this government, which says it's left, extended the MATs to the farmers in Crete, Larissa. What's that? If these tents were known for farmers before the elections, would they vote as they voted? I'm asking. If farmers could vision what is happening today, namely that a government called the left, would give up the MATs in their struggle for survival? So here we have a government that doesn't have popular rations. You know, with Mr. Mitsotakis, because his father betrayed the Union of Centres, we have differences, but he said that you cannot go to your districts by the SYRIZA officials. Mr. Mitsotakis said yesterday that you had a security problem, which you created with your anti-popular policy and the lies you said. I still can't believe that six years in this country a man, who became Prime Minister, said he has other solutions, that he will unite the South against the North, that he will make Europe tremble, and that man went and signed everything and now calls on farmers and free professionals to pay! He's got the nerve and he didn't ask for an apology from society. A man who had presented an entirely different picture from the one he shows and is today! An apology! To say, "Or else I thought." Or to say, "I was with the visions of the old left. I had not gone to Europe to see how the other world lives and how the modern world works. I thought once I was going, Mrs Merkel would sit down. I didn't make it. I'm sorry. Now that Greece lives, does it not live? And I did what I did and I sat and I signed." If he said so, with an apology, with a remorse, I could reason with him as a serious man. He did a referendum. George Papandreou, we called him crazy when he went to a referendum. You, when you did the referendum, what did you want? The "no" what is it? Was it not in Europe? To a question is, he says, as formulated. And the same night and the 'yes' and 'no' became 'yes'. Another deception of this society! Not even an apology to that! George Papandreou was crazy and you said he was crazy when he asked for a referendum, and you were cognitive! I therefore think that everything has been completely obscured and that farmers are telling the truth, these many times unblemished farmers, but they have a great deal of braveness and a great heart. They are supposed to be our fathers or our brothers, because everyone in this Chamber, I believe, has a rural root. They're asking for a zero base. Why can't every Mr. Katrugalos from Kolonaki understand the farmer's problem! And why you've become the SYRIZA and the New Democracy inmates of Cologne and drink your espresso there! And you want to convince yourself that you understand the problems of farmland. You do not understand them and Parliament is accused in front of the Greek people that others are cursing! I asked to know how many of your consultants are. How many advisors do you have? I made a request to Voutsi and he won't answer me. Why isn't he answering me? How many post-call employees do you have? How many advisers does SYRIZA and New Democracy have? Let the Greek people know how many you have, how many we pay, how much this democracy costs, which the Greek people will say cursed soon, in the way you act and act. I call on the government to submit its resignation as soon as possible, because it is a government that has no popular base. You got 35% in September. And Kammenos now in polls has half of the Centro Association. With what you're doing, how much is that 36%? It's gonna be 20%. You have 20% of the Greek people. That's what you have. And you want to do reforms? Do you think anyone will take you seriously? It's a few of your days!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u746	Thank you, Mr Leventis. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vangelis Apostolos, has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u747	I'm asking for a little tolerance, Mr. President. You understand that it is difficult times, and there needs to be an answer to many of the things that have been said. I will not dwell on today's incidents, I will simply repeat that they are and will be a black page in the history of the rural movement. I made a statement. We're watching things. Ladies and gentlemen of the PASOK, before answering your questions and, of course, the questions raised by your President, Mrs Genuine, I must point out a few things. Have you ever wondered what your responsibility for the social desertification of the countryside is, and why are villages and towns cooling? Have you ever wondered why every reasonable man of real agricultural production and life has become indignant in the way that your own governments were managing the aid? Have you ever been concerned about dissolving anything collective and organised in the countryside? Are the padlocks, sales, divestments, liquidation of entire factories with structures and, in particular, factories relating to the cooperative area? Not to mention names, because the number will really be lost. And there is no one who knows about the stock exchange party - every village and ELDE! - where funds and savings of one life's peasants have been lost? Do you object, ladies and gentlemen, that all of this - and dozens others - was done on your own government? You know when all this happened, but more. Do you really know who has been ruling the country for so long, who has implemented the policies that brought the country to the present point? Mrs. Generation spoke of a plan for the rural economy. Twenty-five to thirty-year government with billions of euros available, why did they really get us here? That's the real question. Does not Mrs. Generations on which government the "Agricultural Bank" was sold, "DONES" arrived just before the closure of the "Greek Sugar Industry", closed or sold, "Greek Fertilizers", sold "OLYPOS"? He deserved everything that was moving and had a perspective job in this area. Does it not know which governments were imposed fines and charges of more than EUR 3 billion? Truly, which governments owed farmers loose ends from 2008 to today? Which governments have hundreds of millions of euros of investment projects been wasted? I will not go on because there is too much. All of you, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, know it, have experienced it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u748	Keep going, keep going!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u749	And this has, of course, also been done in your days, but also in the days of your co-chairmen! And you come today, taking advantage of a difficult time, to wash everything out in one night! I'm not going to go on. Be sure, colleagues of PASOK, but also of the New Democracy, that everything will slowly take its way. We know the demands of the difficult agreement, its effects on the agricultural world, but as we know that under the present circumstances any other solution would have a disastrous effect. Mr Mitsotakis forgot these, which called for the withdrawal of the proposals we have tabled to the institutions. And, unfortunately, the President has forgotten about it today and your President agrees with him. It seems that co-government syndrome will accompany you for many more years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u750	Like you and the Annells!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u751	We are committed to alleviating the direct consequences of the agreement in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises. We will do so as far as possible in dialogue with them with their own responsibility, but also with the Prime Minister. We are also committed to launching a comprehensive effort to restructure the productive sector as the main lever to escape the misery of today, beginning with a newly formed effort. You are asking us, ladies and gentlemen, about the alleged lack of a national plan for the development of the agricultural sector and of productive reconstruction. We answer you that not only do we have, but that we have worked it out in a way that serves the competitiveness of Greek agriculture on the basis of the theme outlined in the agreement. Many aspects of this plan will soon be the subject of a general debate. Let all those of the political forces think about it, rural collectives, scientific bodies want to contribute. We've called them several times and invited them back. Welcome! We have specific objectives for structural issues, for trade and export promotion issues, for the absorption of European Union funds, and in particular for the most critical parameter, for production costs. For the implementation of each of these objectives, specific strategies are formulated and specific measures are mentioned. We are starting to implement our strategy with two main tools: the new rural development programme and the new framework for cooperation in the field. We will work with farmers to achieve not only the absorption of resources, but above all efficiency. We are serving the future of the rural area in response to the demands of our time. We pay particular attention to producer organisations, because they can also operate in a business perception, which is now necessary in the competitive environment that is becoming increasingly established in the rural area. But let us see what we, ladies and gentlemen, have received. Only the consequences of the poor management of Community aid to the governments of both the PASOK and the New Democracy and a draft rural development programme which the European Commission has returned to us as a handful of ladies and gentlemen. That was the reason for his return. What did we do to avoid our country being the worst? As far as fines are concerned, I am really presenting you with a situation of three hundred infringements for ten years, a feature of how you managed Community funds. These infringements brought fines for accepting the final. Of course, we had to start our term of office at the Ministry of Rural Development to pay the first instalment, namely 311,000 in February. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You know we're fighting hard for the counts to reduce the sums. We've done a lot on this level. Unfortunately, however, the European Commission has exacerbated its attitude because of the indifference you have shown up to date and insists that the rest of the money be repaid, and indeed the farmers themselves. Otherwise, our country is threatened by a reference to the European Court of Justice and daily fines. I have mentioned and tabled the relevant letter in the Minutes of the House. I would really like to remind you of the arguments package in particular, because we are sometimes forgotten. It shall apply to the following cases: Firstly, the Hatzigakis package, illegal aid granted by ELGA in 2008-2009, totalling EUR 4000 million. We are fighting a great deal to reduce this amount. Secondly, the Short Package, which concerns guarantees and interest subsidy granted to fifty-four cooperative organisations for cereals in 2008, amounting to EUR 108 million. Thirdly - and this is particularly about you, PASOK colleagues - the Moraite package, an old case of aid, regulations granted to eighty-nine cooperative associations and cooperative organisations in the 1990s, of EUR 500 million, which we are asked to recover, and even inspiring one another. So this is the unpleasant reality we have found and we have to manage today. Whatever file you're opening, it's transmitting infractions. Isn't there your responsibility for this? Will you consider her, will you? We are serving - and we will continue to serve - the peculiarities and difficulties of rural areas. We update the National Register of Farmers on the basis of the new proposal that we have submitted to the partners for the purpose of identifying the main farmer's profession. With our proposal for more than 50% of the total declared income from agriculture, professional farmers amount to two hundred and seventy thousand. Don't tell me what Mrs. Genema said that we had our own record. A simple connection with the IACS you had. You had nothing more than that. No treatment was done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u752	Since 2010 you have not been applying it. Since 2010, there has been.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u753	For us there will be special treatment for the main occupation of farmers, both in the rural development programme and in the debate we are currently having with the institutions in the negotiations on both taxation and insurance. I would stress this once again, because I have seen it as well as the Communist Party of Greece. This does not mean that there will be a negative impact on the agriculture workers of the rest of the province. Agriculture for us is an activity associated with the survival of people in the countryside. We are, ladies and gentlemen, starting with contributions to the cost of production by rationalising the marketing and handling of supplies, and we are in a process of negotiating with the Union of Banks for issuing the farmer's card as a tool for the liquidity problem facing the area. This card will not be a monopoly on a bank. It is a card that farmers can use in consultation and transaction with all the banks of the Greek area, because through this process we believe that interest-rate financing will be secured and guaranteed, which the rural area is currently unable to withstand. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another reality that you have all ignored, that the agricultural sector is on the path of development both in terms of income - that is what EUROSTAT figures show - and also in terms of increased exports, as shown by the export promotion agency's data. You are asking us about the unfair tax measures which we are burdening farmers, farmers and fishermen. Ladies and gentlemen, at his house we are not talking about rope. We found the n. 4172/2013, you voted for him, according to which agricultural holdings have turned into professional activities. According to him, all revenues of 2014 would be taxed from the first euro with 13%, i.e. for the net income of 2014 amounting to EUR 1.33 billion. farmers would pay taxes and advances - because I really want to talk with numbers of EUR 670 million. Do you know how much they paid for the intervention we made? They paid 270 million in total. And that happened because with v. 4328/2015 the SYRIZA Government adopted what it introduced in the summer of 2015 - to protect farmers in this way - was one of 2.6 billion aids, 2.2 remain tax-free. In other words, an average - on the basis of the 2014-5,000 euro figures for each farmer - remained out of the tax burden. Make it understandable. And if you try to deny that, it'll be a surprise to you in dentistry. I'm intriguing you right now. I would therefore like to make it clear once again: the 2015 incomes that will be taxed in 2016 will have no change in relation to what is currently in force. In other words, the tax-free agricultural aid of up to EUR 12,000 will apply and the amount that this year will pay for the incomes of 2015 will be about EUR 255 million, of course, for an average net taxable income, like what was declared in 2014. There's an increase. This is very positive, especially when it is demonstrated by evidence. Do you not see that even under the applicable tax rules, that is, what the lenders, we have negotiated, the total tax burden, if the income does not change, will not even reach the EUR 470 million that they would pay with your own law? That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u754	What's our law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u755	You are asking us about delays in payment of aid and compensation. They know that we are putting order in the chaos of their payments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u756	Let's have some quiet, please. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u757	In December, you all know that we paid a total of 2 billion, 1.2 billion basic payment and the balancing and some 800 million outstanding from 2008 to 2014 and compensation. While in 2015, after many years, the fine of EUR 300 to 350 million for pastures has not been imposed in our country. So? This means first phase of proper administration of aid. There are loose ends and problems. It is the architecture of the new CFP at national level that causes us problems of bureaucracy and delays. However, the first dose was paid in time. At that time, practically no country had made the corresponding payments. Even today many European countries have a problem with the allocation of payments. Because the Community regulation has caused us too many problems. Of course, we must not forget that you voted for this CAP. It was you who agreed on how these rights would be allocated. When our time comes to review 2017, then you can ask us what attitude we have taken and what we have claimed. Today you cannot do this because all these problems come as the result of your own agreement. Indeed, there are, in fact, problems, particularly for young farmers and we will fight a great deal, not only to solve these problems but also to be given special treatment in the new rural development programme. You ask if the ELGA payments were made. ELGA paid 175 million for damages in 2015, virtually 60 million more than it had been able, both on the basis of the Pact and on the basis of the collection it had. Nevertheless, we have done so and made specific payments, having completed all the payments of 2014 and we are already entering - starting in January, with a possibility of about 50 million every month - to pay for the damages of 2015 as quickly as possible. You're telling us why we're delaying VAT refunds. Beyond the budgetary problem - you all know, especially you who left it to us - we have already accelerated the reimbursement of VAT to farmers on special arrangements and in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, there will be a similar management of all the repayments due to the State, from VAT to oil, so that we can help the liquidity needed for this period. You are asking us about the lack of real dialogue. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, to accuse us of dialogue at the bottom of our DNA. Our dialogue in our space is our most characteristic element of function. I have met - not only me but also the full leadership of the Ministry - and the Deputy Minister, Mr Bolaris, is here - at times farmers from all over the country and from all sectors of agricultural activity, always with a standpoint of support for the area, because he really needs it on a permanent basis. The Prime Minister is always waiting for them, and very soon he will see them. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must make a few things clear. All these problems which you refer to in your question, which our policy is allegedly provoking, do not forget that we have voted together. Together, we voted for Mr. Dell'Alba. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the So together, we voted on the advance payment of the tax. Together we voted to increase income tax rates. Together we voted on the non-refund of the oil tax. Together we voted to harmonise the OGA's insurance contributions with those of the other insurance sectors. All of this is expressly mentioned in the agreement. Do not try to show that you have authorized the government in general and vaguely. The references are specific, and you are unfortunately forgetting them. Together we voted for them both with you and with the New Democracy, which its current leader is trying to purify through the mobilisations of farmers. And we did it in particular for the rural area, because we and we, all those in favour of the European process, believe that its sustainability is intertwined with the common agricultural policy, to protect the area as a whole 3.5 billion a year in terms of aid and investment resources. It is particularly evident from farmers and their mobilisations that insurance is a major problem. I won't expand. The Minister responsible is here, Mr. Katrugalos, and he will answer you. But it must be understood - and I repeat it once again - that the changes we are discussing and the insurance of farmers are included in a wider reform of the insurance sector within the framework of our agreement with lenders. Of all the things I have said to you, ladies and gentlemen, it appears that the government in its proposal for farmers is clearly dealing with both fiscal and insurance matters as favourable and with its particular character as the rural area. In the dialogue that the Prime Minister will have with farmers - I have already told you that the road has been opened - there will be an even greater response to the issues that we are now being asked for as prerequisites for integration in order to get into the next stage of evaluation. The people, ladies and gentlemen, in their vote, gave us the mandate to take the country on the difficult but hopeful path that can be opened before us. We know we have many difficult battles to fight. But for us it is the larger one of the productive reconstruction of the area, in which the rural area has its capital. We know the place and you can be sure that we'll get it out of this difficult time we're experiencing. That is why we once again call on the farmers to give this battle together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u758	Thank you to the Minister for Rural Development and Food Vangelis Apostleu. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed of the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", fifty-seven students and students and four teachers attending from the 2nd High School of Ierapetra Lassithi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Thanasis Theocharopoulos has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u759	Mr President, farmers are now on the road, farmers are protesting and you told us a moment ago that you have in your DNA the dialogue. Well, then, let us make it clear that or farmers do not understand what you want to say, or you cannot understand what they say, since you have been dialogued and you need to make it clear which of you, in your opinion, does not understand. We have said that we are not in favour of populism, and we are not in favour of closed roads. We believe that the violence from wherever it comes is doomed. So the farmers in the country who have fair requests - which I will tell you shortly - and they themselves will have to protect their struggles. But here we see what you're doing in this process. You said about a national rural development plan just now, and if we understood well, the national rural development plan is the third memorandum for you. You have analysed the third memorandum agreed a few months ago as a national development plan! We are therefore telling you that it is a national rural development plan that will be consulted with all the actors in the country, with society, with the parties and that it will be tabled. It has been more than a year and no such consultation has begun and we constantly invite you to start it and you do not start it. Common agricultural policy. About 20 billion were secured in the previous negotiation, as, you know, I am well aware of the negotiation for both Pylon I and Pylon II. You said then that there is a reduction. We have shown you that the reduction did not exist, because the pie had grown. Now you say and say the Prime Minister, and when he visited the Ministry of Rural Development, that lever for the next few years is these 20 billion and supports all rural development, which can take place these years on this money, in these resources. And you say now and you blame the negotiation that saved this money for Greece. Insurance, OGA. We told you to the government, Mr Katrugale, and at our meeting that the OGA should remain autonomous, there should be a total of three funds. Remember. Three funds. You didn't hear it at the right time. You tabled a proposal to the partners, you, the Greek Government, who has a fund. We are also insisting today and we are calling you "the autonomous OGA". The farmers are out there and want to hear something, a proposal, that you understand the problems right now. And, of course, to triple the contribution I do not think we need to say more. The figures, whatever you say, I think they are characteristic of what is going on in relation to the farmers' contributions. Measures currently in existence: VAT on agricultural supplies. You raised it from 13% to 23%, when the previous period you said that 13% is the highest in the Eurozone and had to decrease, to reach the average that is about 8% to 9% and eventually goes from 13% to 23%. Community aid. You tax them with 26% on the proposal. That is, if it is a change in Community competition, that the country receives 19 billion over the next seven years and that it receives about 5 billion, while the farmers in the rest of the countries are entitled to that money, to be competitive, to remain. And I'm talking to you with evidence, specifically numbers. I won't talk about the tax advance. I'm gonna get to the agricultural oil I want to tell you something. We told you yesterday at the last week's question. On 3 November we tabled a specific amendment on agricultural diesel. And since I hear you keep saying that all the political forces voted in August to abolish the refund of the VAT on oil, I tell you that we do not disagree with the abolition of the tax refund, as long as agricultural fuel is introduced, as in the other countries of the European Union. Do you do that you are not listening to that argument? To introduce, as is the case in Germany and as there is in other countries, agricultural diesel? There is a specific amendment that we tabled on 3 November and which you have not accepted here in a draft law under discussion. Now you have to go ahead with the introduction of agricultural oil. We are therefore making concrete proposals. We referred before and tabled the proposals for the Democratic Incorporation for the National Rural Development Plan. Fifteen specific proposals, with which we will have a national plan, and we will not have this alalum which has been taking place in the last few years. Books of revenue - expenditure: Look, farmers have been taxed since previous years with books of revenue - expenditure. In this change, you were across the street, as SYRIZA. So I tell you what you said just a year ago, not as a opposition, at the opening of the Pan-Hellenic Agricultural Exhibition in Larissa, where you were, Mr Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u760	How do you know I was?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u761	I have the evidence here. So I see this post with the picture of the Minister with Mr Papadopoulos, who was in Larissa. So they say: "Not creating revenue-cost books, reducing the price of oil up to the creation of agricultural oil, reintroducing a third pension" and various other such evidence, which proves your unreliability. And, of course, you said "reform of the insurance policy", but we did not understand what it meant at the time, and the country did not understand what "reform of the insurance policy". In fact, the fact is that they are taxed in the same way as the other occupational classes in the coming years, and that is another thing that you are doing now with overtaxation, which is outside the Community acquis. And because, Minister, you spoke of fines and charges and because you repeat the "Hadjigakis package" - which is an unacceptable tactic - criticizing opposition, I have here two publications in the newspaper "TA NEWs", on August 22, 2014. I read to you: "For the truth, Mr Vangellis Apostolos, the party responsible for agriculture, in his speeches these days at the rural assemblies on products affected by the Russian embargo, asks for measures of the type Hatzigakis, on the grounds that at the time producers were favoured. If they get to it, it's like getting the language out of the Community.' In the next few days, I published again: 'But since we are talking about this matter, the theory of Koumoundouros is also added for aid to farmers in a 'Hadjigakis package'. Already there was a first whirlwind between SYRIZA MEP Vangelis Apostolos and DMAR Secretary Thanasis Theocharopoulos, before the producers. As a matter of fact, the latter does not understand what it is worth to give farmers money that they will then be asked to pay back in interest.' So what I mentioned so far is being tabled to the Minutes. They are presented in the Minutes to see exactly what you were saying about the "Hadjigakis package" and about these practices, which are moving the finger at the moment, while in the summer of 2014 you were essentially in this policy, in front of the country's producers, before the parties, in the presence of the journalists and you said these elements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u762	You're deliberately falsifying. This casket is typical.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u763	And of course, let's go to the livestock farm.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u764	I am sorry that you deliberately falsify my statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u765	Don't get upset, wait. You'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u766	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u767	You were in Veroia, dear MP of the Imathia Prefecture, in Imathia at that time when Mr. Apostleou said so. To conclude, as far as livestock is concerned, I will tell you this on milk - because this is a very important issue and the farmers are listening at the moment. The life expectancy of the milk has not increased for more than seven days. We had managed to protect until seven days the life of milk. I ask you again: will you bring a ministerial decision to release the life of milk, so that a large number of imports into the country can be imported and the domestic livestock production cannot be protected at all? Give me an answer at last. Farmers and farmers are on the streets waiting for answers from you. They don't expect theories and lectures. You keep talking about the price ratio of producer and consumer 1 in 7. What have you done these months, this time you're running? You've done absolutely nothing. Finishing my speech, to see what credibility is for words, works and actions, I remind you: "As soon as elections are held, they forget the promises and the saviours of the place hide behind the cages of MATs. The Prime Minister had to come to the blocks to discuss with the farmers. If we don't reconstruct agricultural production, we'll always be a debt colony. If there is no cheap oil, cheap electricity and liquidity, the rural economy cannot be reconstructed. We cannot afford duty-free oil to shipowners and farmers to pay." Who said that, ladies and gentlemen? Mr. Tsipras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u768	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Brutsi has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u769	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with something that I believe is a common place for all Greeks at these difficult times, on the assumption that Greece is in danger. I do not know whether the government is aware of this, but this sad climate of agony and uncertainty goes through the entire Greek society. The reality is relentless. To date, unfortunately, we have had the difficult budgetary problems, the country's budgetary adjustment. The big issue of immigration has now been added, which is now opening up the new issue of border closure. All this explosive mixture that forms, comes directly and hits the only three promising areas in which Greece and the Greek society can hope to emerge from the crisis, the primary sector, shipping and tourism. In this very unpleasant climate for all of us, the New Democracy sends a message of unity to the Greek people. Above all, at these difficult times, at the unprecedented moments, the government will allow me to say that there is not a single Greek today, a farmer, a retired, unemployed, an employee who also voted for SYRIZA - I also grant this quality - who feels that this year, January 2016, is better than 2014. This is the sad reality and the development of things, ladies and gentlemen. In this very sad and "grey" environment, if anyone asks what evidence these are confirmed, I will unfortunately tell you that today the figures presented for the Greek economy are both predictable and very negative. For example, the recession in 2015 that was planned for zero in the budget, unfortunately will now be less, we will have a recession and we will also have a recession in 2016, which denies the Prime Minister and the government's financial staff. Secondly, regarding the capital controls, some of the government said that the banks would open in 2015. Not only did they open up, but the Prime Minister himself, who said they would open up in 2016, is also disproved. It is disproved by the statement made by the Governor of the Bank of Greece. So, all Greeks know that the banks are not going to open, to remove capital controls or in 2016. The collapse of the Exchange is a discount because it predicts the future of the Greek economy. Today, ladies and gentlemen of the government, by inducing the intelligence of the entire Greek people through the many lies you have told, you have put to you all the productive society in the country and you have an absolute responsibility for what is happening. And the political paradox is that you put the whole Greek society against you, not because they saw the whole package of measures as an account in each Greek's pocket - it is almost enough - but most importantly because the wrath of the many parallel lies you have said is over. And that's what it's causing, and that's what's outraged. Farmers are on the street today because, Minister of Agriculture, it will be a monument to the political life of the place, the press release you made before the referendum. It was read just before by Mr Kegeroglu, and the JRC said so in the previous question last week about farmers. They're staying, stigmatizing the country's political life. And what you said, Mr Minister of Social Security. Because the anger he has made today by farmers on the road is primarily the issue of insurance. I would therefore like to see the truth restored to three crucial issues in a short time. And I'm explaining: First, Minister for Labour, stop lying! It causes a lie. I submit to the Greek Parliament for the second time what the President of the New Democracy Kyriakos Mitsotakis submitted a week ago. This is the first - unfortunately, I say first - proportionate study submitted to the Greek Parliament, which is under the European Commission and showed that the insurance system that we would apply on 1 January 2015 was fulfilling the sustainability elements. What does that mean? It was done with the most difficult assumptions of the troika, under the Ageing Working Group, Minister. It is a study of 2015 and not of 2011, which you submitted just before, and shows that the system was sustainable and did not need to make the reductions in pensions and the exterminating increases in your contributions, because we would simply do the marginal interventions - 'ourours' - of the mail Hardouvelis: minor adjustment measures, early retirements, administrative integration of funds. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, I submit to the Minutes page 42 of the SYRIZA budget. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, I want you to see her. It's documentary you should discuss it with each other. The page 42 of the SYRIZA budget - it is December 2015, a few months ago - says that supporting the sustainability of the insurance system - I pass most - will be done by implementing the reforms of the n. 3863/2010, i.e. the law that I was about to implement in January 2015 and which you stirred. What does that mean? I submit it, because it is a critical size that confirms the following: Two months ago, Minister of Labour, SYRIZA, as government, had a line at the level of insurance to implement the law my own, which would apply from 1 January 2015. That's what you put in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u770	You dreamed about them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u771	You're watching your dreams. They've become nightmares. Your dreams have become nightmares for Greek society. And I'm finishing up, so I can go to the biggest, where you and the Prime Minister will be invited to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u772	Complete your thoughts, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u773	I'll be done. What does that mean? While with the budget in December 2015 you had to implement a specific policy, you come a few days later and submit to the parties a plan of your own. So you lied to the budget, and behind you formed another environment, which you submitted to the parties, your own inspiration. I now go to the third and that's what I'm closing down, Mr. President. To the third I'm going to say, I'm asking the Minister of Labour to answer. From the first moment you submitted to the parties your plan, everywhere you said it was inspirational and writing Greek. Two and a half years I at the Ministry, Mr. Katrugale, for all the laws I have brought I have never made such a statement, because everyone was Greek and had one element: they all happened in the Ministry of Labour. I call today for the Ministry of Labour, the directors, the heads of state, the workers, if I say so, to be inaccurate, to be disproved and I will be publicly apologising to the Greek Parliament. Two and a half years what I brought to the House was shaped within the Ministry. And now I present, ladies and gentlemen, the great lie of Mr Katrugalou, who has also taken with the Prime Minister and from a step by step, said about an alleged registration of a bill in Greek. I submit the press release of the workers of the Ministry of Labour - today, Minister - dated 12-2-2016. I am never using trade union texts, but this has the special value of exposing to you, in the sense that it says that none of the things you presented in the project did not go through the Ministry of Labour. It's all done outside of the Department of Labour. On the contrary, that is, what we did. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you said a huge lie to the Greek people. You lured the Prime Minister from a Stepping House to continue the lie you gave him today to resign, because you are exposed, and you must say whether or not you confirm this post. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u774	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Brutsi. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Katrugalos, has the floor. How long do you want, Minister, to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u775	I think it'll be six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u776	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u777	They said that despite their departure from power, nothing learned and nothing forgot. Seeing you, the representatives of the old political world, I see how difficult it is to learn something and to forget the old practices of interlocutory, lawlessness, lies. Next to you, gentlemen, Mr. Leventis's speech was a beacon of reason. In what Mr Leventis said, he was right. Does the farmers not react to the fact that they will have 15 euros a month in insurance contributions? What do they react to?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u778	Retire. He told you to quit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u779	For decades the soil has been stoned and the villages have been devastated, because there is no development model. What's there? A party for the few, who may be rich with Community aid, a party for the few - usually the same few - for the cooperatives, and most of them living on equal terms. Those who lived just five years of the memorandum with the austerity policies and the blackness of neoliberalism have ceased to bring them over, even as they did. This buzzing indignation is gathered that brings people to the streets today. And that's exactly why these people aren't rivals to us. And that's why we want to talk and talk with them. I'll tell you mostly about the insurance. What's our job in insurance? Share a pie smaller because they delivered us to Greece by 1/4 poorer than it was in 2010 and the insurance funds with 4 billion deficits. So share this smaller pension pie in a fairer way. And what does it mean to be a fairer way? On the one hand, equality, the same rules for all and, on the other, social justice. If there is a favor, this favor should be for the weak. And the same favor that we want to show for the poor worker, the poor self-employed, the small trader we want to show for the poor farmers as well. I said before that that for 88% of farmers who have an income below EUR 5,000 and who are currently in the third insurance category, even as the provision of our law is, it is a EUR 15 charge for 2017 and for 2015 it is not three times as much. With EUR 93 a month - so much is 20% of EUR 468 - these people will get a national pension of EUR 384. Because we do not want the farmer to be 'walkers' - I would never use such a word for a professional category - but we do not regard him as a'second-class citizen'. We are ready to discuss with the farmers and we have already received messages and even proposals from many blocs. We've been waiting for them for weeks to come and talk. What is the only prerequisite for dialogue? To be across, face-to-face, to look into the eyes and to find the right solutions. And this has always been the case for agricultural mobilisation and the Prime Minister has given it to himself since the beginning. I'm on my way to insurance. One fund voted, gentlemen of the New Democracy, PASOK, the River, with L.4336/2015. A single insurer, one single unit, in English.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u780	In English.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u781	That's in English because we got translated. Our laws are in Greek, Mr. Kegeroglu. And since you gave me that line, I'll say that Mr. Brutsi is used to lying. What it brought to me as a revelation - now I am reading it - that "no participation was made by the officials of the Ministry for this project. It is unfortunate that the insurance and administrative services, even today, remain on the sidelines for drawing up the insurance bill," and that is a lie. With the managers, obviously, we're working together. There's a continuity of trade conflict here, which has to do with the placement of a general director of the Ministry, who was head of social security, elsewhere. This micro-unionist - for small ones it is the policy of the parties of the old-fashioned party - has now been the political argument by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. As far as the reflective studies are concerned, that's what I said: '15 was yours for the changes of '13 and '14, '12 it was PASOK' for the '10s. What was my answer to Mrs Christophilopoulou? That the proportional studies always go through the Ageing Working Group process, following the laws, precisely because we need to have the replacement rate determined. And exactly the same thing I asked you, how you expected it to be deposited at the Ageing Working Group, the new actuarial study, since the replacement rates are still under negotiation. What is the truth about the future of the agricultural issue? That we need to have a model of rural development. How? By exploiting the comparative advantages that our country has. Young farmers have ideas, they are creative. It doesn't make sense to send all of our oil to Italy or to cans black. The agri-industrial complex is the main way to develop the two main advantages of our country, the blessing from nature and that we have the most educated, the most gifted generation of new Greeks. The geographical advantages, therefore, with the advantages of the new generation. This is the model that we propose to the Greek society. Insurance is a condition for this necessary return to growth. Because it shortens the real burdens on the economy and gives the opportunity to develop to, as they all show, in the second half of 2016. Despite the rituals of the antipopulation parties, this is already visible to foreign scholars. Why has STADARD & POOR'S upgraded the Greek economy's prospects from CCC+ to B-? Because there are these positive comments to the Eurogroup. Because the road has been opened and farmers are not just our allies, but our partners for this new development model. We have been waiting for them for a week not only for the insurance, but for all the things we need to discuss, to decide and, above all, to build together, because now is the time to rebuild the new Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u782	Thank you, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Work Mr. Katrugalo. The Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Cassidyris, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u783	We are literally watching a triumph in which the so-called Opposition with the rulers for the period during which the bills came into English and were simply translated into Greece, whether it was today or whether this was the case in the previous Memorandum. Everyone, however, has realised that this disaster plan of the country has been evolving since 2012 until now inexorably. The bills came in English and in New Democracy - PASOK and in SYRIZA. And today, that is, on SYRIZA - ANEL. They are simply translated and voted with wretched vote by the MPs of the co-chaired parties. A plan to destroy the basis of our national economy, complete destruction and collapse of the primary sector is therefore under way. It is very critical that we are going through a period of time, and that is why it is very important that the mobilisations, which are currently evolving, are very important. And it is ridiculous for a SYRIZA Minister to appear and say they are their friends who move and react! Are those who eat the wood today in Haidari their friends? The ones who eat the chemicals, the ones who break the cars of MAT in the province are friends of the government? And what would you do to your enemies? Would you shoot them? Golden Dawn requires that this disgrace be stopped in the primary sector of Greece. We want rural development. We want national production. We do not want what the Germans say to become the Greeks 'garsons' of all of Europe. We want national production and an increase in Greece's Gross National Product. Because, as the late Professor Condylis says, 'agricultural and industrial development is worth a hundred times more than 1% of tourist development or consumer expansion, because the first and only helps to self-sufficiency of the country'. Self-sufficiency, then. This is the request of the Golden Dawn. Of course, we do not lead to self-sufficiency. We are leading to the definitive destruction of the Greek economy. Tomsen has already talked about nine billion euros. I shall briefly analyse, in the very least time that I have, why you serve a project, which aims to eliminate the Greek farmer in relation to the competition in Northern Europe. Because this is the plan: Greece does not produce anything and the economies of Northern Europe should grow to the detriment of Greece and we should be Europe's 'garsons' and the submissives of the European Union. So the capital costs of Greek farmers, i.e. the interest rates they pay, are four times greater than those of Europeans. The cost of electricity is twice as high as Europeans. The cost of oil is much more than competition. The cost of fertilisers, tools, raw materials and feed is twice as high as the farmer pays in Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. The cost of transport is not much higher because of the bad network of regional roads. Water supply costs are also much higher. Even access to water is often impossible, due to a lack of irrigation networks. Finally, because he referred to the blessed Greek land, the previous Minister, you know very well that Greek olive oil comes here the Spaniards and Italians take it for free and move it on international markets. There has been no move, neither by the present nor by other governments, to enter the state by mediating and being able to sell this Greek product, which is, in fact, a treasure, abroad - in Russia, in Iran, where we saw that you were visiting - so that the financial problem of thousands of Greek families can be solved. What are you doing instead? What is your betrayal against the citizens, who have believed the lies you have been saying for years? With the new infamous bill, with the new measures that you impose, you multiply taxes from 13% to 20% and then to 26%. You are multiplying - and this is criminal - the advance payment of a future tax from 27% to 100%, especially for farmers, to zero the advance, because the farmer cannot know what changes his production will have from year to year. You triple the insurance contributions. You want to finish them and destroy them all. Remove the oil tax deduction for farm machinery so no one can work. And doing all these crimes, undoubted ministers appear in this House and continue to provoke. The unexplained factor that represents the Minister is showing here in the Peristyl of the Parliament, that those who react are a pity for the rural movement! You dare, Apostle, and you're talking about a rural movement? You kill the rural movement. With these measures, the farmer dies, you idiot! "Idiot!", just like Symble said Tsipra and thank you. In one year's time, there is no possibility of agricultural production in Greece if all these perplexing measures are passed, which you bring to the back of the Greek people. So you're the pity! You are the shame for Greece! Let me not remind you of the trivialities you have suffered from the mobilisations of Greek citizens, and the Minister for Rural Development was forced to be masked and dressed as a police officer in Komotini. To speak, however, about the other unpopular and delayed government factor, Toska, who went out on the channels today and said again that it is Golden Eating Chemicals and Wood from the mattees in Dafni. Kammenos came out and said they were Golden Eagles, the police in Kos. They're not all Chrysayites! Not all of them can be chrysayites, those who find you daily, those who want to beat you, because all of Greece - and that is not what I am saying - has given rise to this treachery policy, which you are exercising at the expense of the people. They're not all Chrysayites! Leave this candy, finally, that only Chrysayes react. The whole of Greece reacts. If they were all of them Chrysangiites, we would be self-powered government and solve the problems of the country. Of course, it is very likely that all of these will become Chrysayans in the future, because Golden Dawn is the only movement that resists this betrayal. What happened today outside the House is downright. They show that the left government is far worse in repression practices than those of governments that have been through to this day. To denounce, of course, also this ridiculousness with the farmers who are coming, says, from Thessaly with tractors, all of which are in agreement with the JRC to put guarding teams, as they did in 2012 with the first Memorandum. That's why they let twenty tractors come from Thessaly and at the same time they sent countless police forces to stop Greek farmers coming from the Peloponnese and Central Greece. All of them, I say, are not Chryssayites. Very soon, however, they will become Chrysayites, for the only voice of resistance to these ethnic plans is the Golden Dawn Association!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u784	Parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos, MP for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u785	Thank you, Mr President. You're more stupid than the one that went through, you're dying! I would like to mention a few issues, because I myself am a farmer. I'll speak experientially. I have felt the pro-agricultural policy of your party and partner, the New Democracy. Almost thirty years have I seen my fellow farmers stepping up production, especially after the 2003 CAP you voted for, with the decoupling of the subsidies from production, which brings broadly your signature. I know what it's like to steal your half-fashioned middlemen, cartel, illegal Greeks, industries and supermarket chains. I have felt the immunity of the banks, the horrors, even of the Agricultural Bank, the one you gave on one night to your friend and you gave him hundreds of thousands of farmers who have been chained up, indebted farmers, and them and their land and their homes. I'm ashamed of the downfall of the cooperative movement that you broke up with, using the vote buy-out and demolition of consciences and perpetuation of your political power. And now you have the nerve to shake our finger. We're neither gonna ever be like you. We fight with nails and teeth to correct all the sufferings of decades of rural space and to save him from destruction, to give him hope and dignity with radical changes, with conflict with the great interests, but, above all, with social justice, with a firm choice to protect above all small and medium-sized farmers. So here's what you did and what we're doing about insurance. You have never cared about a social security scheme for farmers sustainable and social law. You let the majority of farmers get after forty and for more years a shameful tip. You are accused of unfairness when you, with the seven scales - as is currently the case - and the change of scale every three years, are making more money for people who have been physically exhausted after forty-five years of work in their fields. As if every three years farmers become richer. It's like they're shops that open up branches and branches. And most importantly, with this system you want to change, you drive the OGA into total bankruptcy. With the zero deficit clause, which you and the New Democracy have voted on, you want in six years no farmer has been retired, just rewarding. We are, first of all, putting up a protection net for poor farmers. We're setting up the national pension. We, for the first time, link the contribution to real income. It will, in our view, be a real pension system and it will be a reward system. We are motivating farmers who have greater incomes and can pay more contributions to get a pension. Now, with the national pension and the extra amount from the contributions, a couple of older farmers who will have paid contributions for fifteen to twenty years will receive the national pension each, plus any additional contributions of their own, which we believe will be a pension at around EUR 500. So a couple of farmers with 1,000 euros can live decently. As far as taxation is concerned, the Minister said that you and the New Democracy do not remember Mr von Wogau. 4172. He said so, never to talk again. You want to tax from the first euro. Fortunately, however, when the change took place and came to the left for the first time and changed all these things. The Minister told you and what exactly you would do. You would also tax the evidence of living, which does not account for the specific nature of agricultural production, with variations in uncertain factors, the non-recognition of family work, which we have established. You have brought a major blow to the farmers, but you have been prevented. We since May 2015, only four months as a government, rushed to correct as much as possible your unfair tax system, introduced a tax-free rate of 12 000 euros and you will see it and when the new tax comes - we are striving to alleviate the tax burden, which provides for an agreement with interventions, to protect farmers' incomes and a fair distribution of burdens, while at the same time trying to reconstruct the primary sector. We recognise as imputed expenditure the remuneration of family labour and the depreciation of fixed capital, in order to substantially alleviate the financially weakest, and we will pursue escalating factors, according to the size of the income earned, an automatic refund procedure, special or some coefficients for mountain and semi-peripheral regions, favourable treatment for cooperative structures of producer groups, transparency and proper management. SYRIZA has a schedule and vision for the primary sector. Together with the farmers, with all the people in the country, we will do this, for the productive reconstruction and for the restoration of the primary sector, for the dignity and hope of the rural world. And that is why your hypocritical cries, supposedly care for the farmers, will once again fall into the void. I would like to make a statement on the Minutes, because I do not have time to do so, the SYRIZA national plan and some other proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u786	Thank you Mr. Nikos Papadopoulos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Mrs Diamanto Manolakos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u787	We welcome the thousands of farmers who arrive from all parts of Greece and protest in Athens to show their rightfulness, their survival. We're with them. It is right to express international solidarity. The same thing for the people of Attica to respond to the call of the sixty blocks today, and tomorrow of the trade unions, for solidarity and a common struggle, so that the policy of the European Union and the Government for the violent termination of small and medium-sized farmers - which has, of course, been launched since the past decades, by the former governments of the New Democracy and the PASOK - is not going to pass on to the trash of the government the anti-insurance and tax plunder. You have been offended, Minister, for the speech of Mrs. Genemata. But the policy of PASOK and the New Democracy is not only fighting it, but you are continuing it harder, more violently. It is the European Union's policy. But it gives hope and optimism to the masses. And dynamism promotes the continuation and escalation of the struggle, aimed at withdrawing the government's plan for demolition of social security. It is hypocrisy and mockery that the government tells those who are targeting its policy "Come to debate" and, at the same time, unleashing insults, slanders, lies that have no end. After the 'tax fugitives, motivated', the so-called admonition to the form of struggle chosen by farmers, that is, the blocks - which unfortunately incriminate almost all parties, favouring social automation and undermining their struggle - now the rulers have unleashed tanks, so they call the tractors. Of course, their slanders don't end. You are calling for dialogue - a mockery on how to exterminate small and medium-sized farmers and farmers so that large capitalist enterprises remain. It is the government's authoritarian policy and the slandering that produces reactions, which are exploited by some. The rural movement, however, will safeguard the struggles and the organization of their struggle. They're learnt from the flat tires of the past few years. But he will take care of it - and guards it - from the Chryssayites, fascists. Because Golden Dawn attacks, hates fighters, trade unionists fighting for the right. They're dogs of the factory. And today he's on trial, he's on the stool for attacking militant trade unionists. However, the tools of extermination of small and medium-sized farmers are in the third memorandum - together you voted with this old party world, Minister - and this brutality of measures makes farmers react and then you ask yourself, Mr Katrugale. These measures are making mass farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen, beekeepers on the streets. And if they listened to you now that you spoke, you know, others would come to Athens. So be sure. You have not been able to entangle popular anger and indignation in the pretextual dialogue that you have tried to set up in the Committee on Trade and legalise your reactionary changes. A few willing people can find them later. But it hurts you, that reaction. What, in other words, would you like to accept, the huge increase, the triple of the OGA contributions, when 50% is currently uninsured and you say nothing? Admit to go like a dog to the vineyard? Is it not an extermination of the tax rate, which, along with the insurance, amounts to 72%? Why don't you accept a tax-free individual income of 12,000, as suggested? Why, what do they do? They're gonna feed the family? What will remain to continue with rural activity? And when the farmer has a mess, what are you doing? The method with implied income rather than real income. It is a shame to take out poverty and speak of social justice! It is hypocrisy throughout all its majesty, when you increased VAT on agricultural supplies, when HNVIA remains in the home, the field, the warehouse and the rafts of ELGA, which are, of course, the former governments, those who asked you the question, but you continue with them. This is where you ended both the drilling and the sprayers. And finally, your anti-popular policy does not have one. This is the process of speeding up the collapse of the small- and medium-sized farmers, in order to make the largest concentration of agricultural holdings, as provided for in the third memorandum and all of you agree, rulers and oppositions. I'll tell you clearly. The JRC has told the truth about both the CFP and the Memorandums and the anti-grassroots measures of all governments, and is confronting the cause, which is the European Union, the monopolies, capitalism. Clearly we say that no party, nor you questioning it, no government on the territory of the capitalist euro-mono street can stop the course of destruction of many small and medium-sized farmers, no matter how much you support them. Why? Because you support the European Union and the policy that is massively poor. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is not a question of negotiating the current government, nor of delaying the new CAP, nor of reducing the agricultural sector in the country. Food leaves profit to capitalists, because it cannot be the man, however impoverished he is, to be deprived of food. So food is the first and main for survival. But why are they shrinking and leveling small and medium-sized farmers? Because they want to concentrate the land, production and trade on large capitalist farms. That's what you do and when you were government. Did the duty-free oil to the shipowners, and did you not keep it, and today's shipowners also?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u788	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u789	This is the aim of the CFP and of the Euro-mono street parties. Because some people say that the government is promoting communist measures, let me say mercy! Carabinato capitalism promotes with the most wildly exploited system. In the countries with socialism farmers have solved many problems. After the twists, they were found in the air. They had work, wages, hours, rest, and production was planned and went to people's needs, didn't rot in the fields. Farmers were happy, because there was no hunger and their children had free education, health, infrastructure in sports and cultural facilities. However, there were no traders, middlemen, industrialists, bankers sucking blood, but scientific design and production means and land belonged to the needs of the whole society. That's why the JRC has supported and supported the survival struggles and the demands of the fighting farm. At the same time, however, it shows the way of the popular alliance, the rupture and overthrow for society where the fighting of the farmer will not be crushed by their monopolies and their state. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u790	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, George Mavrotas, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u791	Thank you, Mr President. It's the harvest time for the government, and, as the people say, what you will reap. You have scoured election in the rural world unrealistic promises and now you are reaping blockage and anger, of course not unreasonable. What is the current situation? It is well known to everyone that Greek agriculture is characterized by productive dismantling. A prerequisite for the long-term economic viability of the producer, both the farmer and the farmer, is its involvement in the process of production from primary production to consumption, from the field to the shelf, so as to ensure as much of the added value of its product as possible. However, in order for the producer to achieve this, he is required to participate in strong collective schemes, such as producer groups or rural cooperatives, so that he can achieve economies of scale. All this is a little well-known. We don't have to discover the wheel. It would simply be enough to leave the pre-election and pre-elections of the election period and start a serious consultation with all the stakeholders, with the aim of reconstructing the production model. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, farmers are now aware that they must contribute and be taxed. However, their anger is due on the one hand to your lies and, on the other hand, to the fact that you are putting the cart in front of the horse, just as you have done with the completely inappropriate excise duty on wine, your search for supposedly painless and inexorably equivalents, a practice that is not followed in any of the producing countries of the European South. You have thus managed to load more heavily bureaucraticly and economically one of the country's most extroverted and dynamic sectors of agricultural production, the Greek wine production. It's not too late to think about it again, Minister. Let's be honest. Live country also involves a rich country. And in our country farmers are desperate, because for years the state has done nothing to help them increase their income and, of course, it is not subsidies. Your government, by ignorance and inadequacy, has equivoked the whole of the farmers, no matter what the very great disparity that characterizes the industry. Other farmers in the islands, other farmers in the large plain areas in the central and northern part of the country and, finally, farmers in disadvantaged and mountainous areas. Incentives and counter-incentives are an unknown practice for the government. Thus, the imposition of significant tax and insurance charges on the agricultural sector is becoming exhaustive for farmers and unrealistic for the state's budget. A year in governance now and you have not yet defined who is and who is not the active farmer. Nevertheless, you insist on slaping everyone taxly by inducing many of the justified, but irrational and unresponsive reactions of the rural world. Farmers are right to protest, perhaps more than ever, but they lose it by overreaction in their reactions. But that's how you've taught them all the years you've been in the opposition. And you must admit that today's Opposition, at least in its greatest part, addresses the issue of reactions with great responsibility, without betting on the unfavourable position that you have found, that is, contrary to what you have done in the past, when you have dived into the sea of populism. One step, then, back both sides. Collision and violence are part of the problem and not of the solution. You are now a year in the government and we have seen nothing in the direction of the resolution of the cooperative landscape. One year SYRIZA - ANEL and no debate has been held on the transition to the regional model of distribution of direct payments. Nothing to strengthen producer groups. What are you really waiting for? Or did you find the way to unleash the alalum of the subsidies due? Because there are producers who, in business thinking and responding positively to the challenges of the market, calling for organic and environmental products, entered economic adventures. Since 2013 they have been waiting for the European Union's subsidies to be repaid, which would reduce production costs for such crops. What does that mean, practically? How farmers who received a loan to cover the difference in production costs owe the bank and pay unthinkable interest due to your own omissions and shortcomings. Ladies and gentlemen, over the programming period 2014-2020 they will invade agriculture over EUR 19 billion. If you really want to collect taxes from the rural world, you are rationally taking advantage of them in order to ensure environmental, social and economic sustainability for the agricultural sector. Set a tax-free limit and special care for very small incomes in order to keep small farmers in the countryside and especially in mountainous disadvantaged areas. Help young farmers with zero taxation for the first three years. Different tax on incomes which are presumed by the liquidation of recognised producer organisations, that is to say, where revenue is not concealed. This will not only tax law-abiding farmers, since you know that much of the agricultural product is being moved without documentary evidence. Please proceed to cross-check income with imputable income indicators based on IAS. Simplify the procedures for the immediate reimbursement of VAT. Gentlemen of the government, show that you are indeed seeking sincere dialogue with farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u792	We're in a hurry! The tractors are here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u793	Well, then I'll be 20 seconds. As for farmers - and we should know now - the antisocial form of the escalation of the struggle and any maximist of their demands deprives them of the necessary alliances and removes them from the possible and inevitably can lead to social automation. In conclusion, in Potami we believe that primary production and feeding are one of the comparative advantages of Greece. That is what most economic studies are saying about our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, the oligolia seriously harms Greece. Here are our proposals, make them together with your own proposals and the proposals that others have made and act on. The country has no other way, no other way, no time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u794	Thank you, George Mavrota, Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami. We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Lazaridis Georgios, MP II Thessaloniki. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u795	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about an economic sector, which was once along with tourism, on the front line, agriculture. It is an area that has suffered an unprecedented shrinkage, which similarly does not exist. In the 1970s-80s agriculture participated at around 20% of GDP. However, when subsidies began in 1981, instead of using them to improve the quality of products in which we proved to have a comparative advantage and to increase productivity, they directed agricultural production on the sole criterion of collecting these Community aid. They turned agriculture towards the subsidised products, leaving even traditional Greek crops, such as legumes, or other crops, such as feedingstuffs, so that the population's nutritional needs can be met by a great increase in imports. Attributes, many areas with almonds were rooted in Thessaly. At the same time, the quality of the products produced fell and there was no spatial planning of the areas used for cultivation. It is worth remembering also the sinful cooperatives, which have become not for the service of farmers and agriculture, but for the restoration of party officials. You know how colored. Green, not because they were naturalists. For another reason, it was green. In 1990, agriculture had already fallen to 11% to 11.5% of GDP and in December 2014 agriculture had declined even further, to 3.5%. What have you done, gentlemen, to stop that curse? Nothing! Of course, these years, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks did not rule. Others ruled. To make the size of the abandonment more noticeable, I will give you a few figures. In 1961 there were 12 thousand five hundred eighty - six tons of lentils. In 2011 production fell to two thousand eight hundred and fifty-six tons, i.e. about one sixth. In 1961 there were thirteen thousand three hundred sixty-five tons of sheep, two thousand tons in 2011, and here in the sixth. From the ends of the earth we import legumes, to make traditional Greek foods: beans from China, black eyebrows from Peru and Madagascar, lentils from Canada, chicks from Mexico and Turkey, beans from Syria. Some traditional Greek products, the brass, the tachini, the cookie, are produced with sesame. In 2011, our production in sesame was thirty-three tons. In 1961 there were six thousand three hundred seventy - four tons. In other words, production shrinked to one to two hundred. The production of nuts also declined. Almonds, hazelnuts, pistachios, etc. They've all been abandoned. Even walnuts are imported today from California and Georgia. Of course, last in nuts there is an increase in production. One of the basic plants cultivated for feeding is sorghum. And in 2011 we cultivated only eighty-four tons of sorghum compared to the eight thousand seven hundred seventy-five tons in 1961. The production of lemons, which, from the two hundred and sixteen thousand eighteen hundred seventy-four tons produced by our country in 1981, fell to seventy thousand three hundred and fourteen tons in 2011. Of course, for these painful results, as we have said, those who have governed the country in those years must be apologied. Let us also not forget the closure of the Agricultural Bank, which was a serious lever for development at the side of the farmer. The government today has to change this climate and indicators. It's a difficult task, but it'll fight for the good of the country and the Greeks. Efforts are made and we are all involved. This was demonstrated by the presence of Panagiotis Sguridis at the Ministry of Development, in the previous government, who promoted positions and proposals of our movement for the relief of the farmer and the development of agriculture. The rights should be recognised and the obligations of each agricultural holding delimited. The aim must be to increase agricultural income. One of the first priorities is the exploitation of biodiversity and the nutritional value of our products. For example, Dutch pigs are fed with 25% corn and ours with 60% and are sold on the market at the same price. The new measures are indeed unsatisfactory, either as regards insurance or taxation. Of course, we must also highlight a few points on which the rural world has been struggling for many years and are now being implemented. The implied work, which was also from the main points in our program, the Independent Greeks, is the recognition of the value of the farmer's toil, which varies according to the type of crop. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Please let me have your tolerance. For example, we have other implied work on fruit and vegetables, other imputable work we have on cereals and others. Add both the coupons for the insurance of the members of the farmer's family and the workers he uses. All of this will now be calculated at the cost, as will the depreciation of plant, livestock and machinery. There is also provision for the agricultural card, which will credit to each farmer 70% of the subsidies and payments received by the farmer, on the basis of the IACC declaration. Finally, the register of agricultural holdings, in which it will be clarified and who is mainly a farmer, will be provided for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u796	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u797	I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. There must be improvement. And I believe that the Minister, through a fruitful dialogue with farmers, will proceed to brave improvements. The country's Prime Minister invited farmers for dialogue, a positive initiative, a move that farmers must take advantage of and take advantage of, putting at the table the dialogue with the Prime Minister all the issues that concern them. They must not be lured from those responsible for this situation. If they wanted the good of farmers and agriculture, they would have taken the appropriate steps earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u798	Thank you Mr Lazaridis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. Recently from the Parliamentary Representatives are Anastasios Megalamoustakas from the Association of Centres and from the Region of Serres. You, Mr Colleague, have three minutes, because your President has spoken, so half of the time is falling under the Rules of Procedure. It is not an unfavourable exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u799	Good. I would therefore like to convey a remark made by my uncle Thanasis from Metohi, who is a farmer and is watching us now. At the time when the spokesman of the JRC welcomed the thousands of farmers, I received this message, which blamed us and made me ashamed that so many people are out of the way and complained about such an important issue, which we are discussing through the question of 16 Members of the Democratic Union, we here, in this Chamber, should not even be sixteen. That attitude of ours - and I am ashamed of myself as a Member - is what has led us here. We're all laughed at by the world and awkward by us. I'm afraid so. Rural development should be regarded as a tractor, which would tow the Greek economy from the difficult path of the crisis. The government, however, only does put roadblocks on. The government is closing the road to economic growth. You put all these measures, which I will not mention, as the three minutes are very few. You are not serving your obligations towards farmers. Compensation and subsidies have not been granted whole nor have you implemented European aid programmes 2014-2020. And we have 2016! But the Prime Minister promised on the carts, but the world waited, but you did, and unfortunately, once again you lie. And I'm sorry you didn't ask! This policy, as I have warned you in one of the first speeches, will bring you, as you have done, in a very difficult situation. Instead of being in stables and fields, farmers are on the streets and protesting, making life difficult for both the citizens and theirs. The Bulgarian Minister comes to solve the problem at the border, as if we were unworthy. Unfortunately, the time has come when the tomatoes, the stones, the waterfalls. The incidents in front of the Ministry and the images from the battlefield that we see evolving on the streets are the ones that are projected in all the media in Greece. And all this is the result of your policy. All this in order to avoid, we must implement a proper policy. You had to be close to the farmers from the start, ask them what their real problems are and then take off your plan. You can do that now, start a dialogue from scratch, so that you are not accused of having no contact with reality, because, unfortunately, that is what they are saying. Reforms must be made. All branches have been reformed. However, they must be geared to growth. They must have a plan, a plan, and not be handy. The pathogens of the past must be stopped. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some more time, Mr President. We have seen that so far agricultural production has been reduced. From 1961 to 2012 it has decreased. All this was the result of the PASOK and the New Democracy policy. We won't blame you. These two parties were more concerned about the exploitation of the people than about the exploitation of the land. Things must be said. It's not all your fault. We as the Centro Association are all united in finding a solution. The universally proposed President, which many of you are ironing out, for us is the only solution. You need to take a serious look at it. And he will, of course, come because these things here can't go by on your own. Before I close - because my time was too short - I want to make two requests. One is to you, the government, take care of what you say, because with some statements by ministers and MPs the division is sown between farmers and the rest of the world. It happens in society and you know it. We must not create camps. The second request is to the farmers: to think that by force their problem will not be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u800	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas too. Mr Bollaris, Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor for six minutes. I imagine that's enough, Minister. What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u801	It's ten, isn't it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u802	Yeah, right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u803	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who claims that in Greek society, in Greek economy, in rural areas is desirable, of course has nothing to do with reality. Anyone who also claims that this situation is due to Alexis Tsipras's one-year governance, also has nothing to do with reality. It is very important in this Chamber today, apart from the legitimate and targeted viewpoint of party positions, to say five things, which are going through a positive signal to society, to pass a positive signal to the economy, to send a positive signal to the young children. So, in order to be consistent, we must remember that the country has been in a crisis for six, seven years, that this crisis has come to the country crossing the Atlantic, crossing Europe, but here it has been installed. And it is clear that he settled here, because there were pathogens greater than the ones the country could raise. Whoever, then, says that the problem is budgetary, that it is simply economic, makes the wrong analysis, because it has been stressed a lot that the country's problem was and remains, to a large extent, the collapse of the country's productive fabric not only in the primary sector. Less in the primary sector! But we had huge damage to the craft sector, damage to the industrial area. And, of course, there are many who say that thousands of doctors left abroad because of the crisis. Thousands of doctors left abroad because of the crisis, because our economy could not raise more doctors, so that we could tell things the way they are and put them in order. As far as the primary sector is concerned: is it not characteristic - other colleagues have said so as to - that this productive model, with which we were walking, has illustrated its failure in the collapse of more than six thousand agricultural cooperatives? Wasn't it a model he didn't walk? Wasn't it a model that cumulated problems in the rural world? Isn't that the model we need to replace? If, therefore, there is intention and willingness to discuss the reorientation of the country's productive model, we have to agree on what we want for this place. Is it good every time to play the courgette for who's the most to blame? Well, it's not what people expect. People know that. He's more expensive than us. He knows everyone's responsibilities and the course he went. Can we now do something in this civilisation that we want to be a democracy? And democracy means measures, democracy means dialogue, it means arguments, it means suggestions at the table. At this critical moment and after the farmers first asked for a meeting to take part in the dialogue and after the Prime Minister said "welcome", there was a change of strategy - he was serving other purposes - which he said: "Remove the bill". Look, in front of the country has an assessment, which is about whether we stand and walk. This has nothing to do with the parties. It has nothing to do with the government. It has to do with real people, real businesses, real families, young children in this place. So the government has a draft that discusses with the institutions, creditors and partners. This preliminary draft, in a debate which was interrupted, because there are fundamental objections between the institutions! - It's time to cross-shaped. Anyone who has a proposal is now intervening, right now. That is the point of accepting the invitation from the Prime Minister. Not then, when a bill has been drafted and submitted to the House, because that will be the case in the next few weeks. This is the point of the Minister's intervention, who said that next week a debate should be held on a draft, which, when the negotiation is over, will be a draft and then he will come to Parliament to make a bill. This world knows. So it is the crucial time to put forward proposals. The question, which is now being asked, raises the following question: is there a strategic planning on the part of the government? I wanted to ask this, as my time is counted,: Do we agree that there is a very large production potential and a very large production challenge in the primary sector? We agree. Do we agree that there have been failures in managing previous programming periods? We agree. Do we agree that they went and absorbed money where they were not supposed to, while if we had targeted on the real possibilities that have been unfolded here in the previous debate, would we have a completely different starting point to start in the productive sector? We agree. If, then, we agree, we should say now: what is the major issue that the Ministry is discussing? The Ministry's talking about five things. I said it last time. The first is the people, they are the farmers, they are the producers. The second is the land. Third is water. The fourth is our products and the fifth is what tools we have. The treatment of these five main pillars of the Ministry's five obligations is a strategic plan as a whole. So do we agree that we need, in synergy with the Ministry of Education, to change the status quo in the education of professional high school people working in the primary sector? Some colleague said about the NYPD. Do we agree that a series of farms, scientifically, research-driven in the country, must be touched with these professional high school schools to have children who have real knowledge? Do we agree that in these programmes, in professional high school, we need to give children another horizon, and we need to learn and learn from accounting and marketing and meteorology and new technologies and extroversion and export and management of pesticides and water management, and many other modern investment? We agree. We agree that we need the active farmers and those who want to get into the game - why are there many children in Athens, Thessaloniki in the urban centres, who now understand the prospects and challenges that exist to get in - and how do we need to train them? Here's the other challenge, the government's strategic plan, in synergy with the Ministry of Labour for the Programmes. I shall refer to water at a time of climate change. Do we agree, ladies and gentlemen, that the water management model in the agricultural sector has collapsed? Do we agree that there is a problem and that there is a need for new legislation? Do we agree that this is a valuable asset to be seen again? Do we agree that farmers today should be represented? They talk about the 'block representatives'. But should farmers be represented only when there are blocs? We do not agree that these people should be expressed and represented, like all other professionals, namely that it is time to make Agricultural Chambers and have the advantages, priorities, capabilities, advisors, institutes, which other professionals have? We agree. Here, strategic planning elements. I don't want to expand. Time's limited anyway. The challenge for the country, the challenge for the government, the challenge for the parties, is here, is present. It is not important to make appeals and vows to young farmers when we did not have programmes for young farmers in the previous period and we have been charged against them. The challenge is present. And you don't have to look at each other load more, since - be sure of that! - citizens know them, and they have a requirement from us to manage seriously today, opening tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u804	Thank you, Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Bolaris. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the General School of Doxato Dramas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Ministers and the Parliamentary Representatives have completed their speeches. We are, for a few years, entering the second grades of the Members of Parliament and ending the process. Mr. Jellonis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u805	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to condemn the violence which has been done against the farmers by police forces today and, indeed, by using chemicals, by the'second-time government on the left', which once again uses control over mobilisation, which is proof of your own deadlocked anti-agricultural policy. Indeed, Minister, listening to your prototype with great attention, I would like to believe you. Unfortunately, however, you do not convince us either with your good intentions or with your great words. You have again made sure to say that it is the fault of everyone else, especially the PASOK governments. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister sitting next to you: Does he agree that PASOK has destroyed the agricultural sector? If he agrees, then he disagrees with himself who, for thirty years, with this disastrous PASOK policy, made a party and political career with the farmers of his prefecture. Finally, we should all be in a position and not be given lessons of good agricultural practice from this Step, as if you were out at the moment, observers, and you are not ruling. Go, go, go, go, go, go! Just work it out! Finally, apply policies for both water and professional high school and climate change! Leave the analyses for yesterday! We have again heard the Minister say: 'I paid 2 billion, 1,1 billion subsidies'. They're big numbers. And the students are listening here, and they will say, where is the 1.1 billion that farmers have paid? And they've got to get another 1.1 billion, they've always taken until December 31st of every year. And you say: 'This year was the first time that we have implemented the CAP. What can we do? We did not have time.' From March 2015 to 31 December, you didn't make it? You say, however, that you have given 800 million more. What have you given, Minister, to make it clear? Because these are also posted on your Ministry's site. You gave and paid old loose ends from 2007 onwards. You have paid objections in principle, as is the case until now, but before. It is apparent from the OPEKEPE website, where payments are announced and informs farmers that for the single payment period from 2007 to 2012 you paid 12 million, of which 9.5 are in 2012. The same for the 2008 balancing compensation for outstanding amounts. By 2013 around 9.7 million were paid, of which 9.4 million were in 2013. However, the problem of payments in organic farming and livestock farming remains. The payments, which you have often announced in the election and in this House, have never been made. Your pastures for pastures have caused many problems that remain. But I would like to draw your attention specifically to pastures. You did not vote as Opposition then the Tsavtari - Manatis amendment in May 2014 and you brought a new law back through the Siloam swimmer. You painted this law instead of 'cassing' lands which you did not need, with only delays in payments. But you haven't made the bill yet. Can you tell us what will be the impact on the possible mid-term review of the CAP for 2017, when the country will be found with 12 million acres less eligible grassland? For these subsidies we have received twenty-five million acres of grassland, and unfortunately we have lost 12 million. In 2017, however, it is very far away for you, but so you think you can go, eating time and making promises to farmers again. In relation to Mr Katrugalo, I say this: does the farmers really not understand? They paid 950 euros, will they pay on its own data 100 euros more, that is, 1,000 euros a year, and that's it? Is that what farmers say? It was EUR 954 in 2014 the contributions of up to 5,000 euros income.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u806	In 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u807	In 2014. 2015 is 1,084 euros. In 2016 they go to 1,215 euros. From 950 euros to 1.215 euros. But it doesn't say how much 2019 goes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The third category, you mention, is calculated with a monthly income of EUR 726. It's not what it counts at 5,000 euros income. The EUR 726 per twelfth makes us about 8,500 euros. I'll put you in income of 8,000 euros. In 2019, it will pay EUR 2.156 instead of EUR 954. Finally, stop what you say, that this basic pension so far has been depleted. It's 170 euros now, 2026 is evaporating. We're totally in agreement. Is there a farmer today who gets 100,000 euros to 170,000 euros pension? It is six hundred and fifty thousand pensioners, with an average pension of 330 euros. Finally, say one truth, because rather than friends of government and ministers, the easy anti-monetary speech, the promises to all of you have made you feel that today they are applauding you, with what you say, but, unfortunately, you see reversed pals of farmers, who are indignant under these policies and by these measures, which lead them out of agricultural production, and while you agree that it is a sector of the economy that is social, developmental, which can create wealth in a year and get the country out of the deadlock, because it gives the job to both the secondary and the tertiary sectors, you lead him to destruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u808	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u809	I would like to believe that the dialogue really must take place, but on a zero basis - and I stress it again - because only this bill, whether insurance or taxation, are not corrected by anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u810	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Mr. Bollaris has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u811	In other circumstances, I would ask for the floor on staff, but when these are called by a member of an association, an organisation which collapsed into a series of scandals and has covered all its members, there is no personal issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u812	Thank you. We're moving on to Mr. Koutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u813	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u814	Staff? Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u815	First of all, I don't understand what organization you're talking about. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] If you mean by cooperative organization, I haven't had anything to do with it since '92. But can I tell you something? The institutions and, in particular, the cooperative movement - what Mr Katrugalos said a moment ago is synonymous with the hammering - are the tools that you will bring tomorrow as a law to get the rural area out of the deadlock so that we can get the help of our farmers so that we can have agricultural production! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Stop throwing mud, because at least you know me as my co-operator since when I've had an affair with the cooperative organisation of Serres County. Maybe you're judging the odds yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u816	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u817	He doesn't need a reply!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u818	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for very little time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u819	I think it's three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u820	Yes, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u821	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Minister, you're not in opposition, you're a government minister. What you were telling us about those who destroyed the place and you who were going to kill it, you've been telling it all these years, and unfortunately some people believed you and made you government to solve the problems. And those of us who "we have destroyed", according to what you say, despite the crisis and the difficulties and the costs they have paid with blood and sacrifice to keep Greece upright, are still alive and are here from the outside. Go see them. They are demonstrating and asking for rescue measures. To them, address. Because with all this theory of destructiveness and false promises, you have become government and you need to solve the problems. And to solve the problems, you should first reconcile with the truth. Neither Mr. Katrugalos nor you, who are the main responsible on the streets of this world, are yet not telling the truth. Mr. Katrugalos told us about the 8,000 farmers who will pay more. So he wants to keep them there in poverty. Can anyone live with 8,000? And he uses evidence of imputed agricultural income, not the ones that will be generated with the revenue and expenditure books, that's where the contributions are tripled. And you are not telling the truth, because you say that if the previous ones were left, the bad ones would have paid over 400 million farmers. I told you that by increasing the income tax, by doubling the advance, but also by removing the cash from the farmer's pocket due to VAT, it is about 1 billion of what is missing and others are costing, but others are deducting income.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u822	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u823	Your Honor, Minister, but farmers have done the account.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u824	But you say words in the air, how not to vanquish me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u825	Anyway, because they believed you then and made you government, now they can't believe you, because they see you'll get them out of their pocket. So I would like to refer you, Mr Minister, to listen to Mr von Wogau. 4172/2013 that established revenue and expenditure books at a rate of 13% and says in Article 21 what income is for each category. Specifically, it states: ‘For the purposes of determining the income from agricultural business revenues from business transactions, the income from production of agricultural, livestock, forestry, quarrying and fishery products shall be included’. Production! And it had nothing to do with your Government but implement this legislative commitment and use the acquis of the European Union that subsidies are not taxed! You went on your own, without anyone asking you to do so, because you have created a huge budget gap, and you have for the first time taxed subsidies, putting the 12 000-dollar wall on it. For the first time in Greece subsidies are taxed. So that's the reality. Unfortunately, Minister, farmers are taxed twice, because the Ministry of Finance has still not solved the issue of expenditure. The farmer is taxed for his losses and for costs that he cannot justify, because, as you know, agricultural production is harvested by foreigners who do not have AMKAs. And you don't solve these issues. So - and so that I do not abuse time, Mr President - you can solve the problems for farmers to leave the street. Give them a way out, unless it's your choice to have a dead end to make a heroic exit! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u826	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. The reason for this is the last question, Mr Kegeroglu. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u827	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Bollaris, you have referred - and quite rightly - to a proposal, unlike Mr Apostleus, who insisted on his arterio-scrupulous views on so-called rural development, which he imagined promotes. Because only with imagination could someone speak as he spoke before, without calculating this huge wave of social reactions, which runs counter to this policy. Mr. Bolaris, you said there were time-consuming responsibilities. Yes, there are time-consuming responsibilities. However, I would like to point out again that we must say that in this place some people have given life to the countryside, some have triggered growth in the 1980s, some with integration into the hard core of the European Union, not only have they ensured additional income from the European Union by joining EMU, but at the same time we have also given new tools to enable the farmer to work. Of course, everything that could have been done was not done to actually have a productive take-off in Greece. But we must say - and count on it - how it happened and who has done what has happened in this place. And that's something I insist on. I'm really surprised there's nothing wrong with this situation in a year now that SYRIZA's been running. Because last year, in December 2004, the insurance system could give a third pension, and today half the twelfth has been cut, and we are also going for the huge increase in insurance contributions. What's going on? One year, SYRIZA! Last year at SYRIZA there could be 12,000 tax free, not increasing VAT to 23%, abolishing ENPIA, as well as healing a number of issues. Today, not only are they cured, but new taxes are imposed on your agenda, Mr Apostleus! What's he been through since? One year, SYRIZA! Last autumn, after six years of sacrifices by the Greek people, we had a positive growth rate. And the experiments came and Mr. Tsipras came back to plunge the country into the recession, from which he hopes to come out in 2018. You took us four years back! What's going on? Did Mr. Tsipras and the one-year government SYRIZA? Mr. Apostle, yes, I was wrong about your agenda. I hadn't said - but I didn't find it, it was a secret - for wine tax, for milk and for other policies that you added to what you said others would do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You know, you should be careful, because whoever was in your place and had taken off this press release, he would say a "mea cuulpa", would say a " sorry", he would say something! You are the only person who, on June 30th, took out a press release accusing others of implementing some things both from July 1st and then transformed into reality. You take over and implement them! I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the place really needs a productive reconstruction plan. However, this is not only necessary, but also a more general linkage project of dynamic sectors of the economy. The first objective should be tourism, so that along with the Greek population it will be the first market for Greek excellence products. The second objective should be Europe, third countries. This objective also needs to be promoted. The plan put forward by Mr Papadopoulos has some ideas in it, which you do not implement and you do the opposite. For example, the advisory services it has in the Rural Development Programme have already been promised and taken elsewhere. So this plan has as a key element the 2014-2020 Agricultural Development Programme, Mr Apostleu! This was worked out by Mr Tsavrates, which was worked out by the previous government in one way or another with the CFP, because he is the first and second pillars.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u828	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u829	Yeah. And with any improvements that can be or have been made or will be made with the Review in 2017 it is the platform on which we will move. Yes, it is not enough, but that is sure that there is, plus the other policies, plus additional resources that we need to find. I shall conclude, Mr President, and I am referring to the card. The card, Minister, do not say it and advertise it, is the loan given by the banks, and now, once the farmer has mortgaged his subsidy, his financial support. The question is whether it can get more than 70% of the aid with the Ministry's guarantee and if it may not have an interest rate, because you know it well in the bank. For, Mr Apostle, that old one you said and referred to the old one, do you know who was responsible for lending to the Agricultural Bank? Do you know any of the people who gave these investment projects?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u830	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u831	We should tell the truth. The card is nothing but the empowerment of subsidies. It's gonna be a good tool. It's a bank tool. It's not the Ministry's. The Ministry will be able to guarantee no interest. Can you do this, zero interest rate? If you can, do it. The rest...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u832	Mr. Kegeroglu, your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u833	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u834	Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor for tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u835	No, the Minister is three minutes, then I am.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u836	First it's the Minister and then you close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u837	Let Mr. Theocharopoulos speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u838	No, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u839	Are we going to change the Rules of Procedure now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u840	Mr Minister, come on, you will have the floor if you need a comment. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u841	Calm down, temper! Mr. Jelléy, the amount I mentioned, we mentioned payments, was given this amount. And because you have forgotten, I will simply tell you a payment, let me say: 2012-2013 for balancing organic farming - livestock farming was EUR 323,000. Don't talk about change. They've been paid for them 323,000 euros. I'm just saying it because the amount was paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u842	Greek agriculture and livestock farming are known to the farmers who are listening. They're unpaid!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u843	Yes, but that's not the case, Mr. Jelloney. Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u844	Hey, how can't it be?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u845	We have a proverb in the villages that says: "If the raven follows, it will take you dead." These are for the representative of the fascist form in the House. And I come to Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Kegeroglu, I would like you to withdraw a phrase that you said in your prototype that "the Apostle is on a dark mission to the rural area". I ask you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u846	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u847	You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u848	The IMF, did you put it in Rural Development, or did they bring it to you? If they brought you in, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u849	You said that phrase and I want you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u850	So I ask, why am I talking about a specific issue? The IMF, which first came with a government of Tsipras to the Ministry of Rural Development, brought it to you or asked you to come?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u851	I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u852	You're wrong. The IMF has come to Rural Development for the first time, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u853	If I tell you that the IMF did not come to the Ministry of Rural Development, do you accept it and withdraw this phrase?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u854	You're the third memorial. It's just things. If you asked him to come or did they bring it to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u855	Listen, Mr. Kegeroglu, let's be clear. Listen, when such phrases are expressed from the Step of the House, you understand when the citizen hears that the Minister is on a dark mission, only in his mind does he not come to see the International Monetary Fund. Well, please withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u856	Did you get it, or did you ask? That's the question, if you were brought in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u857	He doesn't want to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u858	It's enough to me that you've cleared things up, that's what I get. Well, from there on, though, because you've done this kind of tactic in this House before, I want to make one thing clear. Do you remember in November, when you and Augekis of the New Republic targeted me, assisted by well-known agricultural trade unionists in Crete, that I consented to a Council of Agriculture Ministers to come Tunisian olive oil to Greece? And that, because of my behaviour, in November, the price of oil in Crete was reduced? Indeed, it went to 2,80 euros, 3,10 to 3,20 euros has today. If they didn't listen to you, because they were listening to you and feared by the Cretans - I will not tell you that you served interests, only that the Cretans were afraid - and I, therefore, fled and I tell you very simply...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u859	I'll ask you a question: Your answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u860	Let me finish. And I will submit to Parliament the letter from our embassy in Tunisia, where - not only now, from the payment of Tunisia's exports of oil to the European Union - not a single litre has come to that country. Not a single litre has come, and you have enthusiastized me by saying that I opened the channel for imports from Tunisia to come. And when? When it became a council that I didn't even participate in. This is to inform the rural world. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm coming to the second part, where you're actually taking her a cloud, and you and I want to be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u861	Let me ask you a question...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u862	Mr. Theocharopoulos, when we talk about the Hatzigakis package, what do you think? That in a debate the workers can't claim? What was the crime made by the head of the Ministry of Rural Development then? It did not make the move to ask, as is happening today with the de minimis, with the compensation, with everything. We ask the European Commission and we stress the need if it did so because the rural world was actually at a difficult time at that time. It would have been approved, and today we will not be running to see how we can relieve the rural area of the specific charge. Let's get this straight. So don't try the montase again against me. So I come to the other part concerning what you are constantly putting it that the Apostle said the words for farmers. I'm not saying it, I'm "beeping" in my mouth, because the monitor's still falling. I said there are two gray zones in the rural world that we have to deal with. One is the case of undeclared work. We brought a bachelor, who's already in the draft law at this time for the cooperatives, and we might bring it forward. A bachelor with the OGA as a point of reference. Through this misery and will make it easier for farmers themselves, and above all we will support a democratic right for these people, the immigrants, who have been coming for years, you all know that they have been a key tool for supporting rural activity in the country. Isn't that a good thing? So when we come to capture, to record agricultural production throughout Greece, if we did so, would the farmers themselves not benefit, who are the victims of this story? As, at the same time, imagine what VAT revenues would be available to the Greek State if all agricultural production were recorded. I say to you, we would reach the point where the specific amount of VAT would be collected by the public and not paid by the farmers, you know that the netting of either the farmers under the special scheme, or in terms, etc., with the revenue and expenditure books, could be dealt with. We would thus have a very large income, which could and could be equivalent to using it, up to the point where farmers would get rid of it, indeed be tax-free for all agricultural income. That would have been through this process, but you see how you come and deal with all this. So I come to another piece that I really warned you about. Watch out for taxation, I told you. Watch out for n. 4172, the law you said, 2013. So I prepare you and tell you that before the 2013 law there is a KHS, a ministerial decision of 2011... [[Noise in the Chamber]] ... signed by the Minister of Rural Development Constantine Scandalidis and the Deputy Minister of Finance Dimitrios Kousselas - here is -, which says "Theme: Determination of agricultural income" and concludes in Article 2 that income for the needs, says...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u863	For the objective system...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u864	...is also agricultural subsidies and production compensation for farmers' incomes. Okay? So I'm filing this out for the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u865	Just quiet down, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u866	The rural world has understood you're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u867	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u868	Lies again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u869	This is where we're going to be telling truths! From this step we'll be telling truths! A little quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u870	Well, I'll testify to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u871	In '13, the law was passed and you say it was a '11 ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u872	I present to you in the circular of 2015 Secretary of Esidon, Mrs Savvaidou - it was yours, it wasn't ours...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u873	With your own government!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u874	It was yours, it wasn't ours... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Where, therefore, it states that agricultural income will also be calculated for payments and subsidies and compensation. I testify to her so you can have her here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u875	Read the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u876	And we're here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u877	Read the spot!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u878	Read it and listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u879	It says it's not recorded in the billbook!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u880	Agricultural aid and subsidies, granted under the common agricultural policy, are included in the determination of profits from business agricultural activity. Including...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u881	Read date: June 2015 writes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u882	You under the law of '13 took the rural activity from an agricultural holding and did it a professional activity, and of course the circular came to be implemented...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u883	Let's finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u884	I shall conclude, Mr President. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are constantly talking about a press release on the eve of the referendum, where you ignore at least two basic parameters mentioned in the bulletin, but which, if all were accepted, would be tombstone. Do you know who they are? That 12,000 euros, that is 2,2 billion euros from farmers' incomes - and that is 1,3 billion euros net - are not taxed, and that is not what we have achieved in the report, and that is where we are asked to tax subsidies, aids...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u885	But they're not taxed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u886	Do you forget that you are constantly insisting on tripling the premium when the premium - as was actually said by the Minister here - all of it, go to 10, 15? Go on, be 15 euros, 20 euros, etc. What does this have to do with triple the contributions? Does he have anything to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u887	Just triple it's insurance contributions! That's why farmers are out in the Constitution!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u888	So don't attempt any more montaziers. I would really like to say that you mentioned that 'the first time measures such as repression are being implemented in our country'. Are you all right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u889	It's just triple!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u890	Do you forget the MATs on the roadblocks? Do you forget?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u891	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u892	You interrupted a hundred times, Mr. Jelloney! You're asking the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u893	Do you forget that you ripped out the peasants' tires on the streets? Do you forget there wasn't a demonstration you wouldn't send the MATs? That's what you did. And you come and tell us. We see how we respect farmers' mobilisations and what a attitude we are taking. Police stand is a defensive attitude. Why don't you put it in your mouth? That's the way it happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u894	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u895	Leave the tears and the pains, because you have already loaded so much rural space over the past few years, and we have been asked to take over the country's rule in difficult hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u896	Ask them if they agree with that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u897	Know that we have both knowledge and experience and especially the plan to deal with the situation. We're going to get through this, and we're going to be where we're really going to get the rural area out of the deadlock.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u898	Thank you to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vangelis Apostolos. The procedure with the tritology for three minutes of Mr Theocharopoulos, on behalf of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, is complete. You have the floor, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u899	Minister, I really hope the farmers are listening to you at this meeting today. You're revealing. The Minister for Labour came here and had to look to the government at that time, because he said how rural development should be exercised in our country. It is likely that it has made points which you must take into account, as to what you are not doing at the moment. For the insurance business, let it go. I guess his calculations are wrong. The Deputy Minister for Rural Development gave us a theoretical lecture on actually a code of good agricultural practice, which is out of reality. I come to you, Mr Apostle, who is probably not taking into account your national plan. That is what your Parliamentary representative called it: a national plan. Let me tell you something. We do not say a national plan for a party, and I imagine you shouldn't mean it too, because the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman tabled the SYRIZA plan, which called it a 'national plan'. Ladies and gentlemen, you say as a party 'to proceed with the improvement of the short-term trade balance'. With these measures, will we make an improvement in the short-term trade balance? You say 'to keep the agricultural population in production today'. With these measures brought by the government today? You must make tough criticisms at the moment about what the government is doing, on the basis of what you have given to the Minutes. Advisory services: there is money, which is not used. Advisory services shall not be used. Are you criticizing or not? We have heard no criticism of the fact that the government is not using advisory services today. As far as tax evasion and modelling are concerned, because you have caused us, Minister, to read out a statement to you: 'There is tax evasion since the value of the country's agricultural production is estimated at EUR 10 billion'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u900	Where did you see that statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u901	Publicly, I'll testify for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u902	But what do the newspapers write and what I make statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u903	Minister, if you'd like to answer that you have patience to hear. Dialogue you said you had in your DNA. Where's the DNA of the dialogue? The national SYRIZA plan, as the parliamentary representative called it, says that "we must reduce tax evasion at all stages". So why don't you say you don't? You say so. Can we tell you our position? The problem is that you do not combat tax evasion and blame the farmers, who are legal, who do not evade taxes and put everyone in the same bag. That is the big problem right now, Minister. You said it was a modeller and he was here as a congressman, who was at that meeting. At a meeting that we had held at a detailed session on the agricultural sector, all the producer bodies said at that time what you said. Two editions of a valid newspaper I presented to you, which you did not disprove in those days. And, of course, as regards the Hatzigakis package, you said some time ago that while you are Minister and while there is a SYRIZA government there will be no recoveries when you have brought the amendment here to get the money back. And that's a modeling machine? You didn't say it in here, Minister? Let us know. Has the European Commission asked the Greek Government to speak on these statements? Please inform the National Representation. Indeed, we will not escape the crisis if we do not understand that we need to change the question. We have tabled proposals. We have tabled specific proposals for the verticalisation of production, we have tabled proposals for producer groups and how they need economies of scale so that they can actually produce wealth. And, of course, we have seen with a phrase of your accuseing the producer groups' movement and the cooperative in your position, Minister. I am referring to the debate, which took place a moment ago. We are therefore telling you that we have tabled specific proposals on the linking of research with agricultural production on all issues. Fifteen proposals. You have them. Take advantage of them. Change the door. You're not an accountant, you're a productive minister. Change the table, because we will not be able to escape the crisis if we do not have a national rural development plan unless we all understand that we need to produce. And to produce, we cannot continue with these measures, which you are bringing and farmers are complaining about. Proceed to specific changes. To conclude, I say: say today: 'I am going to a national rural development plan, I am keeping the OGA autonomous, I am going to oil and I am not taxing 26%', to sit down and discuss, for example, 13%. Say those words to the farmers who want to produce, they will hear you and we will help with the negotiation. But you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u904	Good, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u905	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u906	For seconds, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u907	Mr. Theoharopoulos, from your position alone, it seems your embarrassment to serve all these sins of the PASOK government for so many years, because you carry them now, and if you were now in this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u908	You're self-criticizing, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u909	The second is that you really didn't understand a simple thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u910	Leave that poem. Nobody believes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u911	Please. Mr President, you did not understand a simple thing, that all of what I said to you, which you say, we took back together, we voted on them. You weren't in the House, but what happened? Now you have joined an area which too is'surpassing the ship' of the agreement. So, please, not so much tone, particularly to me and I tell you personally because there is a relationship and there is a relationship from my point of view and from your point of view. We serve an area with opinions and suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u912	Thank you, Minister. The debate is adjourned under number 6/6/27-11-2015 on a topical question by Members of the PASOK Democrat Association - DIMAR to the Minister for Rural Development and Food. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-12-S1-commons.u913	With the consent of the House at 19.32' the sitting on Monday, February 15, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions.
