ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the news sheet on Thursday 15 September 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Finance about the need to support the regions of Laconia and Messinia affected by the recent bad weather. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 12337/7-9-2016 of the new Republic of Athens MP, Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the ENPHIA of voluntary organisations. 3. The question asked by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Finance about “TRAINOSE”’s scandalous sale in relation to the incomplete price of EUR 45 million. 4. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding reductions in supplementary pensions. 5. The Question No 1246/12-9-2016 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Ministers of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction and Food, on unprecedented disasters in Trikalon Law, due to intense rainfall. 6. The question by No 1243/9-9-2016 of the Member of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, about the loss of revenues of the Greeks, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Finance. in 2014 from VAT. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr Georgios Vayon to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about the deterioration of the Police Department of Arnaia in Halkidiki Prefecture in a police station, according to a draft Presidential Decree. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1242/8-9-2016 of the Congressman of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Aivatidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the "inability to set up the beneficiaries in the workplace located in the region of St. Ioannis Corfu’. 3. The question by No 1245/12-9-2016 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on the possibility of integrating and reintegrating into the regulation of the hundreds of doses for both public and insurance debts. 4. The question by No 1247/12-9-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nicholas Moraitis, to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the exclusion from the associated aid, on the basis of an inappropriate limit of one hundred and twenty kilograms of milk per animal, for thousands of farmers with indigenous breeds of intensive grazing. 5. The Question No 1202/30-8-2016 by MP Argolidos of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the progress of the work of the Argolida irrigation network. 6. The 1194/29-8-2016 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the subsecution of TEI Kilkis. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the exclusion of thousands of children from the country's children's stations. 8. The question by No 1211/5-9-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Tsiras, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning increases in farmers' insurance contributions. 9. The question raised by the Member of Parliament, Mr Jasona Fotidas, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the increase of infringibility with the victim of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: "Strengthening the Tripartite Memorial of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the tourism sector". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, those who object to the ratification of this agreement may take the floor. Is there a colleague who wants to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u3	You have the floor, Mr Kattotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC, as we have said in committee, is placed in every draft law from the point of view of workers and other peoples, if the people, workers or capital strategies are satisfied. In tourism it is fully revealed what growth the government is publishing today and who it serves. The sixty interclass agreements, as has been said in the committee, which have so far been made, provocative incentives with tax exemptions, multi-formal aids have contributed to tourist development. Above all, however, the greatest contribution to this strengthening of the competitiveness of tourist businesses is the major overturns that you have all imposed - and the New Democracy and the PASOK and the previous governments, but SYRIZA maintains them today and extends them - against workers to reduce so-called labour costs. You've created medieval working conditions, conditions of the globe. The SYRIZA - ANEL government continues where the previous government stopped. It suits above all the needs of large tourists, strengthens their choices for approaching tourists from abroad and especially quality tourists, i.e. with a high Valley. The next strategy is the strategy of the big players in tourism, those who will increase their competitiveness, i.e. their profitability. Everything that stands in the way of this strategy, the government and the big-timers, in cooperation with and with determination, go beyond it. Privatisation of airports, ports, mountains, land area fillet, with the simultaneous change of land use serve designs for investment. These make use, of course, of the friendly investment environment, which has been created and continues to be created with incentives, privileges, tax exemptions for large business groups, but above all - as we have said - by the collapse of labour rights. The eighty-sixty files, Minister, as you have said in committee, for the five-and four-and-a-half hotels which are for licensing and the fifteen very large complex accommodations, indicate that development is taking place on the ruins of labour rights. The government's fair development relates to the profits of business groups, which are guaranteed by multi-formal support and, in particular, the working jungle for workers. It is well known that the tourist season, which is moving to the end, leaves behind debris for the workers. It is also known that this year eight out of ten were unable to take a vacation. Of the workers, who are dismantled from the tourist season, with a lot of intensification of work, with many faintings, many are unpaid. Now, although we are talking about twenty-nine million tourists - as the Minister has said and repeated - and we are talking about increasing revenue and profits, workers have been employed fewer days, their salaries have been much smaller. It's hard to make winter. It is known that sectoral collective agreements have been abolished. Employers do not apply them, but all these issues concerning employees are outside the Ministry of Tourism. The Ministry is a Ministry of Hotels and strengthens their strategy, their overall planning in the country and abroad. The Memorandum we are discussing is a follow-up to the agreements signed by all Greek governments on behalf of the strategic planning of the bourgeoisie. Who are they? It is Greece to become a transport and energy hub and, of course, a tourist country. This memorandum specializes in the tourism sector. It serves the more general designs of the monopoly capital investing in tourism, which are expressed in the processes of the Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises. In particular, Cyprus and Egypt are key competitive tourist players in the Mediterranean with a very large tourist market. In this market funds are invested in Greek interests - as in Greece - where groups of Cypriot interests and other international groups with significant economic activity in all three countries - such as agencies, transport, hotels, cruises - are investing. Madam Minister, I also told the committee about the hotel "Athens Lydra" your silence, the silence of the government, shows who and what reason you serve. You are serving one of the same, market freedom, free action of capitalists, and it also shows your complete indifference to the effects on workers. The Prime Minister from PPC reiterated what we hear from many representatives of capital, that the market regulates itself. SYRIZA - ANLE Government intervenes, legislates, regulates, on behalf of business groups overturning workers to meet the needs of capital for cheap labour, for deeper exploitation and greater profitability. So far, the government, the Ministry, has not said a single word about these workers. Paraguidis, a well-known Cypriot businessman, the first with unscrupulous wealth in his class in Cyprus, with a long-term investment action in Greece, after receiving a 600 million-dollar project, built the hotel with 80% completeness and left a hundred fifty people on the road and you have not taken a place. These workers are five months unpaid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. They're fighting and sending a clear message that without them the hotel won't work. They refuse to live with the nightmare of unemployment. They challenge the succession to anyone who gets the hotel. They are claiming, until the hotel reopens its real protection against unemployment, that the employer, who has for years earned inappropriate wealth on the workers' back. These, however, for the Ministry interested in the big-time hotel owners, the tour operators, are sounded paradoxically. The Memorandum distinguishes the strengthening of maritime tourism, the cruise, which is the main aim of the monopolies of tourism in Greece, so that Greece may dominate the Eastern Mediterranean. Such agreements are even more complicated in intra-imperialist competition, in the axes and alliances between capitalist states. These agreements cannot hide that partnerships coexist with competition. The workers and the people have nothing to gain. These agreements strengthen, extend and deepen the exploitation of workers. In addition, Article 24 provides for the so-called 'practical' which is filled with each undertaking, every hotel, with students. These agreements are a tool for cheap and flexible labour, unpaid work and generalised apprenticeship. It is another agreement that reveals that the current government continues where the former have stopped. We are voting 'no' in the agreement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr. Panayotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u6	With regard to the ratification of the tripartite understanding of tourism cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, we want to give a little encouragement to those who rushed to deliver history and culture lessons during a debate in the committee. The committee was told that three main and great ancient cultures, i.e. Minoan, Egyptian and ancient Greek culture, were developed in the geographical area of the Eastern Mediterranean. Since when is Minoan and ancient Greek culture something special, and is not a continuity, which continues until our time with various expressions and forms? This sanction relates to a memorandum of cooperation signed between Greece, Cyprus and Egypt almost two years ago, in October 2014. In particular, in the explanatory statement, the aim of the three parties is to increase the traffic between the three countries. Tripartite cooperation shall be achieved by the signatories to the memorandum through the facilitation of cooperation between tourist agencies, exchange of know-how, marketing and information on tourism, encouragement and facilitate tourism investment. In fact, for the implementation of all of this, a common fund is planned. The levels of Greek know-how in tourism are high and the experience of all the people involved and acting in the tourist businesses, maintained the tourist flow, even though the state did everything it could to level one of the remaining donors for the Greek economy. And when we say'she did what she could', we mean either by increasing VAT either by the nightclubs or by the fact that VAT was increased in almost all the islands and then by what has not been increased so far - we see the actions - either by the difficulties, the direct or indirect, to countries which see Greece as a tourist destination not only for holidays but also for other reasons, for religious tourism, such as Russia. We are very well aware of the problems with regard to visas, and it is ironic from one million invaders - illegal immigrants entering our country without any papers and obtaining rights either from work with a bill, which you voted a few days ago, whether their children enter school free of charge and provide them with everything and at the same time millions of Russians, Serbs and others who want to come home, do not have this possibility because the services are being blocked or the visa issue is being delayed, so that they can come to our home country. It should be noted that the traffic in our country, compared to the levels of previous years, has been affected in specific areas and we all know that the main cause is the influx of illegal immigrants. We saw what happened and now we are starting to measure the wounds in Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Kos and other islands. We see that with your actions and your moves, unfortunately, we will count wounds on other islands of time, such as Crete, which you will send for the first time two thousand illegal immigrants or refugees - as you say - but we all know what will happen. They will stay there and others will come, with all that that implies for local economies. Even if this memorandum wanted to help improve tourism policy, serious reservations and concerns are born at reading it. When signing an agreement seeking to update the links of ancient cultures, the good faith of the days for disposal and cooperation is taken as a matter of fact. There is no question of different aims and objectives. Consequently, the reference to Article 6, which concerns the resolution of any disputes concerning the interpretation or application of this Memorandum, is at the basis of the error. The above points to the fact that even in those cases where the Contracting Parties have, it is assumed, common pursuits are not at all true. The establishment of a common fund is a very general provision which could allow third parties to intervene in economic, tourism policy. It does not specify the operation of the fund and the method of selecting the persons who will manage it. I would also like to make two general remarks concerning tourism, since our country is a global tourist destination. If we were to handle this area properly, we could have a lot more tourists all year round and help Greek citizens, especially in the years of the memoranda, who see one after another, get the professions hit irreparablely. We had also told the committee to the Minister, who is fighting this issue of tourism, that at the end of the day when we have a fund, we see that while we have more arrivals this year, the revenues will be less. Because it is about having more revenue for the local economy, for Greek workers, for Greek restaurants, for Greek hoteliers, for Greek tourist shops and all that. The model that is being promoted worldwide, according to which, as we told you, a group of tourists prepares to a tourism office that is not Greek property and comes home a charter flight, which is also not Greek property and goes to an all inclusive hotel, which is not Greek property, so far leaves nothing in the local economy. We bet that all those who come will probably take a walk out on the island, on which they will go, but unfortunately they do nothing at all. We say that even some Greeks will work in these hotels. In recent years, however, it has been observed that the majority of workers have not been Greek, that they are foreigners, either as trainees, who are not paid, or through OAED, that is to say, the Greek state is donating for foreigners. At the end of the day there is nothing left for the Greek citizen and the Greek economy. We say they will eat traditional Greek foods, but from meat from Argentina, imported from milk imported from imported eggs, from imported olive oil. Everything's imported. So you should think very well about the model of tourist development that we would like. Perhaps, with far fewer tourists we have had far more revenue. The ideal thing would be to have more tourists and a lot more revenue. I'm going to do a little parentheses, finishing up, Mr. President. We know very well that in recent years the so-called religious tourism has risen. Our homeland is the valley of Orthodoxy and hundreds of millions of citizens - orthodox and not only - want to come to our homeland, visit for their own reasons the monasteries, churches, temples, all that are within Greece. All we have seen in recent years is instead of having the religious tourism we hope, which we would like, of Christians and those who would like to visit the Christian temples, monasteries and all that we have foretold, to see millions of Muslims, Islamics coming to our homeland, to spend in Christian churches, to break the chapels, to rob and to do anything else. Certainly, if this situation persists, we will also have a very serious problem with regard to religious tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Under the Rules of Procedure, Members of Parliament may have the floor from the parties who objected to the committee. If some Members want to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, could I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u9	Please, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u10	I would like to say first of all that it is well known that we have been placed on this subject and that we will vote on it. Secondly, I would like to say that the question of the amendments that come over sanctions is a mistake. This is a practice that we do not agree with. However, the amendments will be put to the vote by our rapporteur and I would like to ask the government before the Minister takes the floor if he intends to bring any new amendments during the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u11	Mr Brutsi, the amendments are in the second convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u12	I have a total place, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u13	Madam Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. In 2015 we had designed and implemented our national tourism policy in an environment, which, unfortunately, was unfavourable to Greek tourism. In 2015, we had one - I would say - restraint in bookings and arrivals and from our traditional markets and markets, such as Russia, which reached about 60%. We have therefore undertaken and directly implemented the national tourism policy, which was fruitful in 2015. Despite all the difficulties - two elections, the referendum, the threat of Grexit, the economic suffocation - we managed to overcome the highest expectations that the private vehicle had of the order of twenty-four million tourists, estimated to carry in 2015, to come to our homeland. We've overcome every expectation. It was so targeted and decisive that the actions and actions we took in 2015 - nothing happened at random, it was done with hard work and with the implementation of this new national tourism policy - which we managed to achieve a year - record to reach twenty-six million tourists and 14.2 billion revenues. It is very important to say that this national tourism policy has managed within a year and a half, that this government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks are at the wheel of Greek tourism, bringing about an extension of the period. That was the first objective we set ourselves. Flights, air arrivals and - if you like - the entire tourist stream in the beginning of April and end of November. This is the first time in 2016 that, at last, this goal became a reality. We opened new Greek destinations, made popular destinations of Greek and through flights with very hard negotiations and with excellent agreements with our partners abroad, tour operators and travel agencies. We have brought new direct flights from various cities in Europe, not only to Athens and Thessaloniki, but also to our islands, which was very successful in 2016 and extended by all airlines in 2017. So through thematic products and new destinations we managed to stimulate the regions, the local society and the economy. We have succeeded in achieving, for the first time in cooperation, all of us together, very important results in last-minute bookings. In America we opened the market. Three large American companies are coming, while in the past it only flew one, and this brought us about 40% increase from the American market, a market that was traditionally too good for Greece and had lost sight of it in the past. We have opened up new markets, such as China, South Korea, the Middle East, just to ensure far greater income for Greece because these markets have high incomes. It is very important to say that it does not appear from anywhere that we are currently going to finish the season with a reduction in revenue. It is something that you will allow me to tell you that the balance sheet will be made at the end of the season, which this time ends after October. We have a record of arrivals in 2016 after a record year, in 2015, with about 6% -7% for the moment. September, October and November are three months which are extremely good. Reservations have gone beyond all expectations. The cruise is at a 20% increase. All the indicators show that in 2016, after the hard work we have done and all the targeted actions through our national tourism policy, we will have a very positive result. A very important part that we have touched on is investment. We have managed to increase enormously and demand investment. Specifically in the tourism sector there are about a hundred and fifty files, which have been requested and everyone is at some licensing or implementation stages. Also, there are many files for large complex tourist accommodations. That's a little briefing. In committee, I have managed to say much more. However, I am giving you an image of the positive image of tourism, which is a key pillar of our national economy and such sanctions, such as the current one, which we are coming to vote on, which is in this case between the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and Greece, is part of the overall context of the tightening of our geopolitical and economic relations, the creation of a sense of security and stability for the wider region. And you know very well that economic growth is very much based on our tourism and is a bridge of growth in many areas, such as energy, trade, primary production and processing. These are very important steps which we can take in order to strengthen our national economy. That is why I think it will help to strengthen the economy, the tourist flow, to reach agreements in various other areas, to mutual understanding, to good faith and to friendly relations between the three peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Koudura. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism is adjourned: "Following the Tripartite Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the tourism sector". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u16	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u17	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u18	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Strengthening the Tripartite Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the tourism sector’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with the other draft agenda. Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Cross-border Police Cooperation". This bill was passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and is brought to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who objected to the committee for the ratification of this agreement. However, because four ministerial amendments have been tabled, Nos 664, 665, 666 and 669 - the content of which I can read to you, if you like - I propose that they should first be placed at the beginning of the agreement, Mr Karakostas from the Golden Dawn and Mr Katsotis from the Communist Party of Greece, as well as, of course, the Minister responsible for five minutes. I then propose that the four ministerial amendments should be discussed together with the parliamentary representatives, the rapporteurs and the special speakers, the relevant ministers and those who wish to be registered to speak. After the debate on the amendments with the positions of the competent ministers has been concluded, we shall proceed to the vote. Here, Mr. Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law concerns one of the most common sanctions in the memorandum of understanding and cooperation which are already signed in practice. Here we are dealing with cross-border police cooperation between Greece and Bulgaria, an agreement which has been signed on 9 June 2010. This agreement provides for cooperation in matters of police interest, cooperation in the fight against illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and other forms of cross-border crime. In addition, part of the Agreement is the exchange of information on illegal immigration, drug trafficking and arms, traffic offences, terrorism, organised crime, passport controls, visas and travel documents as well as related offences. We believe that these agreements are rather hypocritical and simply made for reasons of formality and because they require specific practices. The agreement provides, inter alia, for Article 10, that the Contracting Parties may refuse to provide information and data under conditions. In addition, Article 15 provides that the Parties may refuse cooperation on matters if they consider that sovereign rights, national security or other sovereign rights are affected or jeopardised. There is therefore, in our view, a question of interpretation. In practice, Bulgarians can apply the agreement, as it suits them, or at all. It is worth mentioning here an issue of economic form. I would like to mention the economic damage suffered by the Greek economy from the purchase of goods in Bulgaria, which are then resold in Greece, without the documentary evidence provided, and I am referring to goods from frozen meat up to bakery. Costs for the Greek economy are heavy. I would also stress the time when this sentence comes to the Greek Parliament, with the presence of thousands of illegal immigrants in our home country, with a ignition scene, which has been created and which can well take unforeseen proportions. As far as Bulgaria and our country are concerned, we have to mention: At the Prime Minister George Papandreou had opened up to the Greek-Bulgarian border in Xanthi a road that united the solid mass of Muslim Bulgarians with the Greek horrors of the Prefectures Xanthi and Rhodope. There was the border station of Agios Konstantinos - with the problems we have highlighted as a party and a question to that effect - the border station between Greece and Bulgaria in the area of Thermons in Xanthi Prefecture. The Turks and not the Bulgarians - and that is what needs to be pointed out - were asking for small border crossings to be opened, especially in the Xanthi and Rhodope Prefectures. However, while Greece had the right within the European Union to refuse to open these passages for national security reasons, it did not do so. So we ask ourselves: Who can prevent the creation of a scene with millions of Muslims controlled by Turkey and some tens of thousands of Greeks on the border, surrounded by millions of Muslims controlled by Ankara, Turkish-speaking or not, however, controlled by Ankara? The result will be seen in the future, when a population comes in direct contact with the eight hundred thousand Turkish-speaking Bulgarians - 10% of the population of Bulgaria - with the two thousand Greek Muslims in the region. Bulgarian Muslims not only are not regarded as a religious minority, as in Greece on the basis of the Treaty of Lausanne, but are also characterised as a Turkish minority and indeed with increased privileges since the 1990s. These are data, which should not escape us and which undoubtedly form a geopolitical reality. The major issue and the concern that needs to be raised is how our country will effectively shield its borders and how the entry of illegal immigrants will stop. We, as Golden Dawn, have a completely different view of how the country's borders should be protected and how to prevent crime entering our country, assuming that these issues are not dealt with by formal agreements on police cooperation, which favour only one of the two members. That is why we are stating our complete opposition to this sanction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. Mr Katsotis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC considers this draft law on cross-border police cooperation between Greece and Bulgaria as harmonising with the reactionary decisions of the Hague Programme, which primarily aim to influence fundamental freedoms and people's rights and to hit migration and refugee flows in the name of protection against international crime and terrorism. The agreement openly targets immigrants and refugees by targeting, as it says in the draft law, the fight against illegal immigration. We must say that the refugee and immigration issue has been gigantic in recent times. The cause, of course, is no other than imperialist interventions, imperialist wars. The European Union, NATO, imperialist centres, the US, Russia, as well as Turkey, Zaire and other countries, allies of the imperialist centres, who want to grab from prey, participate in the massacre, create refugee and immigration conditions. Supporting and expanding the sovereignty and profitability of monopolies leads to wars with victims of the peoples. Also, anisometry between the capitalist countries leads to the rise of poverty and impoverishment and the world of its groups takes on board. The refugee and migration shall be managed in the logic of benefit for business groups. Refugees are exploited to abolish labour and insurance rights, to suspend any freedoms acquired, to further strengthen repression in the name of security. In this sense they abolish the right of refugees to go to the countries they want. They're entangled in the countries that arrived first. They're prohibiting secondary movement. This line is reformed in the Dublin Treaty, walls are built, the barbarity of the system is revealed. Under the pretext of refugees, the government brought NATO to the Aegean, with a view to implementing the imperialist designs provoked by competition. The responsibilities of Greece, which participates in the Imperialist organisations, in the plans being implemented, are criminal and, in other words, lead to a gigantic increase in the flows of refugees and migrants. The decisions of the European Union, the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, the acceptance by the government, have led to the closure of borders and the caging of sixty thousand refugees so far in Greece. The implementation of the agreement, which we are discussing, with Bulgaria will contribute to the intensity of caging and greater repression against refugees and migrants, who will try to find individual solutions for declaring and continuing their journey to the Member States, who want to go, of course, and also the traffickers' wallet, which will do gold jobs. As for ISIS, this is known to be a sample of the imperialist countries. It is worth expanding their sovereignty, controlling the oil and gas routes, controlling other wealthy sources from the monopolies of the imperialist states, with the contradictions, competitions, which in many cases lead to a levelling-up like Syria. In this agreement, Article 3(8) and Article 9, it states that police cooperation will provide assistance in connection with mass concentration, disasters, important events. This promotes coordination of police forces and opens a window to suppress popular and other mass mobilisations. Article 14 states that during operations each Member State shall provide the same assistance and protection as its own institutions. It also promotes the monitoring of telephone communications, the exchange of databases and so on. It enables the police bodies, under Article 5(4), to violate national sovereignty, with provision for agreement on the possibility of police officers, armed, crossing any border point. In this way, the government is promoting measures which will enable the police authorities of one Member State to continue to pursue their pursuit, even when they have crossed the country's borders and even in detention, that is, their jurisdiction will not stop their country's borders, but extend under the pretext of ongoing pursuit in cooperation with the local authorities. For border regions, their range shall be set at 30 km and police and police operations shall be provided. Reference is made to the issue of drug trafficking that has become a nightmare for parents growing children. The so-called 'drug culture', namely drug tolerance, is an official policy of the European Union and of the governments. Each country's bourgeois class is trying at all times, especially during times of crisis and war, to fake them to create a subordinate conscience and attitude of life in youth. The so-called progressive years are trying to separate drugs hard and softly to legitimise their use. The compromise with the drugs problem, with the measures which lead to their legitimacy, essentially means accepting the production and marketing of drugs. The JRC voted against the relevant draft law and calls on the working class to link its daily struggles to the political struggle against the monopolies of capitalism, to overthrow the dictatorship of capital, against its imperialism and barbarism, and to connect its daily struggles to the struggle for its own labour power. This is a way to improve her life, to abolish exploitation. On this road it will coordinate its action with the struggles of workers from other countries. Solidarity will strengthen. Anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist action will be supported. The working class will be manipulated by the objectives of the bourgeoisie, self-sufficiently impatient against the wars and their authority. With regard to the amendments, in order not to come back, Mr President, we are voting for Amendment No 666, which enables nursery officers, whose school at the police schools was interrupted because of physical incapacity, to be transferred to a office. It would be important and fair to introduce the arrangement in any such case, which exists. We are also voting for Amendment No 669 to extend the contracts of workers to the OTAs, and we are, of course, raising the issue of the fight against flexible forms of work, against their hostage for stable work with full rights. We are voting 'at present' in the amendment with a general number of 665 on the extension of the contracts of officials serving in the European Union, and in the amendment with a general number of 664 on the redistribution of the seats of the successors in the 1998 CSCE competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Katsotis, excuse me. Do not talk about the amendments, because an amendment will be withdrawn. Mr. Bernardakis will announce it. So you will then be placed for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u24	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. With regard to the amendment to the 1998 SAAP competition, we have a reservation as to whether new positions will be consistent with their experience and expectation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u25	Before entering the amendments, the Minister, Mr Toskas, has the floor. Please, Mr. Toska, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned to the committee, the concrete ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, concerning cross-border police cooperation, is an agreement signed in 2010, under certain arrangements, which had been passed by the European Council in 2008, but also after discussions with the Bulgarian Government. Relations with neighbouring Bulgaria, as we know, are at an exceptional level. On 1 August a high-level meeting was held between the Prime Ministers of the two countries in Sofia and government stadiums, where important issues were discussed. And recently I met my counterpart and Vice-President of the Bulgarian Government, and we discussed cross-border cooperation issues. There are already issues that have been agreed, such as the common contact centre in Capitan Andreev, on cross-border control issues. This agreement concerns issues dealing with common crime. As you know, with the promotion of economic cooperation at European Union level, internal border controls have been reduced. That's what common crime is using. It precedes it as usual. And we come with this agreement to agree with the neighbouring country on issues of common control. Some articles from this agreement will be implemented - I am referring to Articles 5 and 6, namely cross-border monitoring and cross-border pursuit - after Bulgaria's entry as a full member of the Schengen Agreement. Our country, as we know, supports the entry into the Schengen Agreement and Bulgaria and Romania, of the two Balkan countries that are fully integrated. So these two articles are not directly implemented. The other articles are to be implemented immediately. The delay from 2010 until now has been due to the continuous changes of governments and the rotation of various operators. There must be continuity in the country's foreign policy. It's a matter of credibility, it's a matter of seriousness. We are now coming precisely for these reasons, and we are asking this House to ratify this bilateral agreement. Now, with regard to the amendment which I have tabled, this is about extending a regulation, which allows for the ranking of tried police officers, who had not been on duty, but during their course of study, so that they can be assigned to an office office. As you can see, it's a humanitarian matter. It's about a few people. This regulation exists until 2007, and we are also calling for the extension for 2005 and 2006. This issue also concerns a athlete of the Paralympic Games, who gave his battle these days in Rio. That's what I'm concerned about. The other amendments concern Mr Vernardakis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of the fact that the Committee of Inquiry into the legality of lending to political parties, as well as the owners of media companies from the banking institutions of the country, set up in accordance with Articles 144 et seq. of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and for which Parliament's plenary has set a deadline for submitting its findings by 19 September 2016, seeks, after its unanimous decision, a three-month extension of its term of office. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u28	The House unanimously agreed. It seems that the committee has a lot of work to do. We shall now proceed to the subject of the amendments. Mr. Vernardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. These are three amendments. First of all, it is Amendment No 664/49, which refers to the exceptional redistribution of the successes of the 1998 Written Competition of the AACC, appointed these days. For reasons which they have to do with certain organic positions which were intended, but which are either changed or transferred to the same Ministry, the possibility of reallocating, obviously with the consent of the worker himself and at the request of the Minister of Administrative Reform, in order to proceed with this redistribution, on the basis of the needs of the service. This is Amendment No 664/49. Amendment No 665/50 concerns the secondments by the experts of the Greek Government to the services of the European Union. This is about harmonizing the European directive, which has been done in all countries. Greece has remained the last to regulate this pending. The old scheme laid down a two-year period of secondment plus two years, and the European directive refers to the possibility of seconding two plus four years, up to four years. The third amendment, number 669/52, is withdrawn, in order to bring it a little better legally into the first bill we will have, the next, perhaps within the day, with the Ministry of Labour. It concerns individual contracts for the cleanliness of the public and of the OTAs. The question relates to many different forms of industrial relations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u30	There is a deadline, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u31	There is a deadline which will be considered. I know. We've got it in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u32	Is there an emergency? Since it's until the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u33	It is until the end of 2016, but there are contracts which are due - Mr Kegeroglu is right - but which we will anticipate. It's also a practice of good legislation. We could do so with a legislative improvement so that various specialities and other services can be integrated, but that would now go beyond the legislative improvement of a particular wording. That is why we are choosing to withdraw it in its current wording and bring it in two or three days' time, in the first bill to come, to resolve the issue in a transparent and horizontal manner for all workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Theodora Bakoyannis, in Berlin, is seeking permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u35	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Toskas has asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. It is precisely because there are amendments that I propose to add to the title of the bill 'and other provisions', for reasons of formality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u37	Does the rapporteurs want to place them on the amendments in a row? Who would want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u39	Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u40	We would be putting ourselves in this amendment withdrew by the Minister. Of course, our request is never to bring it, as it is intended to bring it, because it is unacceptable and derogating, as she says. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Panayiot, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u42	I shall be speaking about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u43	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. In Amendment No 664/49, for the exceptional redistribution of the successes of the 1998 SIP competition, we are voting against. We believe that apart from the 'vitrina' and what appears to be the case, there are various other behind-the-scenes situations. Others have achieved some and others will be hired. Let them make sure that the ASA is correct, that everything is typical, that these large gaps do not exist - because there have been many changes - so that they are in all fair and legitimate. We have heard about Amendment No 665/50 on secondments, that it is a Community directive, and that from two plus two years, officials will have the possibility of seconding for two plus four years because the European Union says so. That is because the European Union says so, it means that it is infallible and wholehearted! In other words, we see that there will be even better service for some, on the pretext and the grounds that it is a Community directive. For Amendment No 666/51, we have one question and if the Minister solves it, we shall vote 'Failures' on this amendment. Why only for academic years 2007-2008 to 2010-2011? A case before 2007 or a case that is after 2011, which is the same case, why not have the same benefits, which will have those who were in 2007-2008, 2010-2011? That's the question. If you solve this question, we shall vote 'Paris'. Or we'll vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. Minister, do you want the floor to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u46	Is it also for previous years? If it is also for the previous years, we should vote for 'Paris'. Let the Minister make it clear, give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, with regard to the amendment I tabled, 666/51, it is precisely for the existing regulation to be extended from 2007 and also for the 2005/2006 academic year because there are such cases. As I have said, for humanitarian reasons we are proposing this arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u49	So we are voting 'Failures' in this particular amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, thank you. Minister, I said earlier that it would be useful to hear your comment on other points, so that it would be general in the end. Because today we are discussing a convention which is essential to police cooperation between two countries, but also to better safeguard and safeguard public security, Minister, I cannot start this comment, with a small position on what happened yesterday and I would also like you to have a comment. Minister, yesterday we saw a video, which was moved on a well-known website, which has as its content the militia of anarchists in Exarchia. You understand that in itself the event means catastrophic the Greek state in a space. I cannot imagine that your state and your ministry are not reacting to such phenomena. Anarchists who are in the field of Exarchies, for which you have said several times, Minister, that you are in the mood to speak with all the collectives in this area - I imagine you will not do so with this group - think they can act as a militia to clean up the space from drug dealers. The absence of the Greek state is given. Because if the police were there, they should have been arrested, Minister. I would like to make a comment on this. I do not believe that any Minister for Citizen Protection can tolerate such phenomena and have no arrest. I say this because phenomena, Mr Minister, are multiplying. We had similar marches with guns, we had parallel in the square of anarchists who threatened the inhabitants and we had a militia operation yesterday. Why do you tolerate it? Why are there no arrests? Why do you not make it clear that in this area, not only do you have no dialogue with any collectiveness, but democracy is opposite? Please, I would like a comment. Because the situation needs to be cleared up, not orally by you. It needs to be cleared up by specific orders you'll give the Greek police. The issue is political will, not police operational capacity. She has it and we recognize it. With regard to the amendments: Mr President, we agree with the amendment on the extension of the period for academic years 2005-2006, because there is also exceptional humanitarian reasons. The other two amendments, Mr President, despite the fact that they are based, could not be discussed outside the ratification debate? Because they don't have that character. In our view, therefore, despite the fact that we are seeing positive elements in the distribution of staff, the criticism, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Bernardakis, is the same. Why didn't you bring it when we voted for the law? Why did you not have time to say about distribution within the Ministry, which is an act that should be followed not only by your own decision but also by the Ministry's establishment plan, so that these people can be placed in suitable positions? Do you know why I'm saying that? Because when we discussed the bill you suggested, we had told you from many parties to put a provision so that the Minister could have that. At the same time, however, this corresponds to an organizational chart of your Ministry. Finally, we think that the practice of amendments to international conventions should be cut off by the government, because it simply exposes the country with such procedures when other bills are running. In addition to this, to which I have referred, Minister, there is nothing more to be so urgent that we can hang these amendments in the ratification of the treaties or agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. Mr. Georganta, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u53	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you. If I may, I would like to speak on the other amendments. Indeed, this phenomenon which the current government has chosen, and to which, unfortunately, the Bureau consents, that is to say, to amendments to international conventions, is totally unacceptable. There's an indicative number that I think says it all. I would mention that in order for colleagues to understand what is happening: In the period 2013-2014, ninety-three sanctions for contracts came twelve amendments. From September 2015 until now, thirty-three sanctions for contracts have come to sixty amendments. We cannot monitor this choice of the government and this tolerance from the Bureau in such a piece of legislation. We think this should be stopped. That is a fundamental reason why in the other amendments that are being debated today, our vote and our position will be negative, because we must once put a brake on that. Only if it is urgent, which really has a deadline and which is understood by this House, will the New Democracy consent in the process of voting for amendments to sanctions for agreements. Let me say another thing, Minister, in relation to the amendment that has been withdrawn. I do not think there is any basis, nor legal nor political, for the Minister to be able to bring such an unacceptable amendment to the House. He must never bring her. He can't create a new generation of hostage contract staff. It cannot, by way of derogation from any of the provisions of the Constitution and any provision of the relevant laws and without taking into account the needs of the institutions and without taking into account the financial costs of all these initiatives, create a new generation of hostage workers of the Government. We think that this is unacceptable and must be stopped. We can understand it. But we cannot really understand the courage of this government, which chooses this path that is against all moral and legal values.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Georgioda. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u55	Because this practice in relation to the amendments to the sanctions for agreements will not change, since the previous governments have done so, I would like to talk about the matter of withdrawing the OTA amendment. We cannot understand the New Democracy, which says never come again and speaks of the needs of the institutions. But what about the needs of this world? Who took them? The agencies didn't get them on contract?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u56	Until 31-12-2016, their contracts are valid, Mr Katsotis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u57	What did these agencies take to do to them? Didn't they get them to meet the needs that exist in the agencies? But you want me to tell you what they're doing? In the name of changes in industrial relations, they implement all this legislative framework that you and the previous ones have implemented, and the government has today, in flexible forms of employment, in order to ensure that there is no full and stable job, that there are no full rights, but hostility and subjection of workers, so that they are 'good' children, so that their contracts can be renewed. These contracts should be made for an indefinite period of time, full and stable work with full rights, because all these workers are needed. Of course those who are unemployed today must work, but they are also necessary. We say that these needs must be met soon, so that these workers can be finally resolved and are not hostages. As far as the issue of the success of the 1998 SAAP competition is concerned, the responsibilities of the former are great. From '98 until now, these people have been in 'expect'. They'd been in the contest for so many years. Well, these people can't be justified for so many years. With regard to their redistribution, we have had reservations, because we say that it must be with their consent, on the basis of their expectations and where they have already stated and should not go to a position other than the experience they have, but also against their will. That is why we said "PARENT" about these workers. If, then, it is on the basis of their consent, of course, we will vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr. Fotillas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u59	First of all, let me express on behalf of the River my support for the people affected throughout the country from the floods and fires. The farmers of Western Greece have suffered considerable damage to the cultivation of the flood raisin and need immediate assistance from the state. I would also like to report to the people of Thassos about the incalculable destruction suffered by the fire that broke out in their area. The superhuman efforts of the firemen to limit the extent of damage deserve our congratulations. However, under no circumstances reduce the government and Prime Minister's responsibilities, which have been depleting his efforts for months in communication, rather than planning with local communities organized civil protection methods. We also heard the incredible justification of the Prime Minister himself who said that a local majority MEP was getting the wrong Ministry in his agony to find Mr Toska to run for help in the region. So Mr. Tsipras wants to tell us that the MP was calling, for example, the Ministry of Tourism to ask for fire assistance? What else are we gonna hear? As far as the amendments are concerned, we have also said so many times - representatives of other parties, you know that very well - that the Rules of Parliament do not allow amendments to be tabled to ratify an international agreement, regardless of whether it is in the right or the wrong direction. We have in fact indicated to you ways of being lawful with parliamentary order, but it seems that for the first and second time left-wing government, there has been a custom of trespassing the parliamentary process. But when? When will we be able to consent to these procedures? On the substance of the matter, we recognise that Amendment No 666/51 is indeed of a humanitarian nature, and that is why we shall be voting in favour of it. As far as the rest are concerned, we invite you to withdraw all and bring them into separate or relevant legislation, as the law stipulates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. Ms. Big Economics has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I believe that the amendment to cadet police officers suffering from physical incapacity, which is not due to their service, is correct and that this beneficial provision needs to be extended to police officers or police officers for the years 2005-2007. So this amendment is accepted by our party and must be implemented. I think it is fair and humanitarian to them too, so that their physical inability does not prevent them from continuing their service. To extend the beneficial provision to these people as well and to be brought into line with the European Union. With regard to the amendment for the successors to the AACC for 1998, the Deputy Minister for the Interior has the opportunity to reallocate the positions. We have some objection to how the positions are to be reallocated. This must serve the right places to take. As the Minister has said, they will go to the positions that were to be adopted, namely the positions that had been selected and the competition of the AACC had taken place. They must not be placed in other positions that would not be corresponding to the tier they should have. On the third amendment on harmonisation, we agree. Mr President, I would like to clarify that we agree with the second amendment. In other words, we agree with all three amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I asked for the floor to speak as a parliamentary representative and I would like the time for two minutes. If colleagues want to, then they can be placed. First of all, with regard to the issue of the amendments to the sanctions procedure, I would like to agree with my fellow Members that, since we have entered a normal legal procedure and exceeded the issues of evaluation and all the extortion - if you wish - which have been exercised in our country and which have forced us all very much, we too - must - and this is a joint commitment and a statement by the government, as I believe - move on to a process that we will limit the amendments to the sanctions procedure. I do not think there is any need to increase the debate on this. However, with regard to the issue of curiousness - I would say - and a strong reaction from the rapporteur of the New Democracy to the provisionally withdrawn amendment, on which we have said that it will come back, it has given us a very great impression. I cannot understand why you have chosen to raise the tone today if the matter is to be reintroduced. But I would like to say this: Protection of labour is a principle, which I think our Government has proved to be a central and capital. Obviously, I would also agree with my colleague in the Communist Party that these jobs should be permanent, undetermined, because no one should be blackmailed in terms of his work that is a basic right, but that is also a need for public space. However, the strong reaction to discussing the issue of contractors by me, Mr Colleague, means that you prefer cleansing contractors and at any time try to show that. So we want to make that clear to you. Only in the procedures of the AACC, with the use of transparent criteria, will we continue to strengthen the area of work, because we do not want the public to waste resources and to underestimate the worker towards contractors with whom you might have had better relations. The approach we have is different. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We, however, repeat that we will not put any rheumatic systems out of the window, because in any case the proposal that will come and I know that the Ministry is preparing - and I conclude, Mr President - is not about workers who have taken it, but about a wide range of workers with a procedure of criteria and respect for the rules of the AACC to all operators and to a lot of self-government bodies, which obviously does not control the governing party and we never wanted, because we do not have this control relationship with selfgovernment, we respect its autonomy. He will come to discuss this proposal in a subsequent procedure. So, away from us, anything rousphetological. They remind you of your past, you know them well, you used them. We're giving them you. We are on the side of protecting work, on criteria and on the equality of citizens. This will return to Greece, this returns with our own government. But there will be an amendment, but we will discuss it. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, will you give me the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u66	After Mr. Theocharopoulos. Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, we hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only support this procedure - and we will do so every time - on the subject of the amendments, particularly in sanctions for contracts. We heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman say there really is a huge problem here and it needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u68	I didn't say huge. I said it's a problem we'll solve.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u69	But you're not a month, you're not two months old. Twenty months you rule, SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, and this particular issue has deteriorated. It has not remained the same, it has deteriorated, and it really does not honor anyone in here to discuss it in every ratification. Those who listen to us are tired. Something needs to be done immediately and initiatives taken. For the specific amendments that have been tabled today. First of all, with regard to Amendment 664, because every time I read that there is the question of mobility, I would like to welcome the Government and SYRIZA once again to the world of mobility. I say that on the grounds of knowledge. You fought her on mobility in the Opposition. You fought her for the years 2012-2013. You took possessions and said they'd be fired. Then they weren't fired. Mobility ensures that we can have in all services an appropriate number of people. I am not talking about redundancies, which do not solve any problems and with such an unemployment rate that every debate will have to stop. But the issue of mobility has been fought. So today you are bringing a provision, Amendment No 664, to a world that has already suffered enough. It's true about the successors in 1998. The Minister will decide on their redistribution. Of course, the nominee - and rightly so - will accept the new nomination post, but retains his right to be appointed to the original post, as foreseen, following a decision to allocate the Minister. Two questions, therefore, firstly, the maintenance of the right of appointment in the original position depends again on the Minister's decision, according to what we read. So, is there any chance that the Minister will not accept the request? I'm asking for clarification to see if this system is voluntary or compulsory. The second is: Is this right at risk from another provision in the amendment requiring an allocation decision and for cases where the AACC has a decision next in turn on the candidate success table? As far as Amendment 665 is concerned and the question of experts is concerned, there is no doubt that many experts who are already breast-feeding are worthy to remain in their place, as others may be much better and to open up this process. It is stated in the explanatory statement that permanent and active participation would be jeopardised by the absence of an extension of the mandate of experts. You refer to the European Commission, which I would like to say exactly what it says in paragraph 5, that exceptionally and at the request of the Directorate-General concerned and when this is justified in the interests of the service, it can allow for one or more extensions of secondment for a maximum period of two years from the end of the four-year period. Because here you go over the end of the four-year period for two years. We therefore have to deal with this issue at last, and we have to deal with it as a whole. As far as Amendment No 666 is concerned, it is of course positive and humanitarian content and, as the rapporteur has said before, we will support it. Finally, for Amendment No 669 which you have withdrawn, there is a particular problem here, of people working and ending their term of office, and it must be resolved. We, the Group of the European Democratic Alliance, have made specific arrangements to resolve this issue for these Ottawas alone, for these people. You extend it to legal persons and now, from what we understand, you want to extend it to other specialities. To solve this particular problem, which we have asked for, and do not go into other issues, which will make it much more difficult to resolve the problem itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. Mr. Brutsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I will only speak for two minutes. Mr President, I too would like to agree that this is not the moment and time to discuss this amendment, which has been withdrawn. I mean, however, because the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has been placed. Firstly, I would remind you that in a short time SYRIZA, as a government, will be closed for two years. After these two years, Mr President, I find it hypocritical that we are now talking about real events, for SYRIZA to say that it is in the interests of the workers. It has now proved to be complete, in all appearances, that SYRIZA is not with the workers, but is using the workers. He used them two years ago, in the big political deception, to draw votes, with the famous 751 minimum wage for all workers and with something worse, which has been forgotten. At that time SYRIZA promised, with the top executives, that there would be no flexible forms of employment. He said everywhere that there would be full-time employment and that every worker would be full-time. And regrettably for SYRIZA, he invokes my "ERGAN", creation as a minister, who then called it "montazier", which proved that for the first time in the last two years in the history of the labour market, in 2015 and 2016, i.e. the years that SYRIZA governs, became the biggest, most negative overthrow in the labour market, against workers. Flexible forms of employment have gone through full-time. And to make something clear, no one's against good...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u72	Whose creation was that, the flexible forms?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u73	Two minutes to make it clear. I object from the side of SYRIZA about flexible forms. It's a real fact. Flexible forms of employment exist and coexist in every developing society. However, the measure within which a society can move on the labour market is identified. You're the one who shot down every record. Flexible forms have gone beyond stable forms of employment. That's SYRIZA's record. I'm really going now. Mr President, we are in favour of SAEP. Logics that circumvent the AAP and come with party client logic, they find us, they find us and they will find us opposing. I don't want to say any more. I would expect the provision made by the Minister to come, which we will deal with as a provision that will be within a bill of employment of the Ministry of Labour. Be careful, I hear that in this bill by the Ministry of Labour it is likely that the transitional framework for lawyers, doctors, engineers, freelance professionals, promised by the same Prime Minister, will be abolished for insurance contributions. So be careful, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, do not fall into the trap of bringing such a provision to the House. You'll be exposed once more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u76	Please, what do you want, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u77	I'd like a one-minute position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u78	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u79	For Amendment No 669.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u80	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u81	Minister, as our parliamentary representative said, we tabled an amendment last week concerning only the issue of cleaning services for the municipalities and contracts which are concluded. Unfortunately, this amendment was not accepted and a minister came, which extended this possibility to all legal persons, private and public law, public private law, and put the lighting service in, etc. This problem concerns the cleanliness of the municipalities and must be resolved. You must delete the other legal persons and other specialities and the amendment must be passed today. Delete them with a legislative improvement to pass. The other thing you will bring may be about the new concept of creating a new generation of contractors, who must go to the courts, in order to claim their perpetuality, or to apply once again the choice and policy of Paulopoulos in this matter. It's a other thing, though. We want the rest of the legal and electrical lighting systems to be deleted today and the cleanliness provision to be left, because the municipalities will be found without cleaning services. In particular, we in Heraklion will discuss the insurance measures on Friday. If, therefore, it is negatively taken on the part of the state - I do not know whether the courts are listening to ministers and prime ministers - I would like a clear statement of your own on this matter. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. The Minister has asked Mr Toskas for the floor now and then Mr Vernardakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u83	I would like to say a few words, Mr President. I think it is perfectly understandable in this House that we have been trying to deal with situations and problems that should have been solved for several years. We are today bringing the agreement of the Greek-Bulgarian police cooperation which had been signed in 2010 and then entered unclaimed. We bring her, because there's a need. Especially right now, there's a greater need. The first is that. Secondly, the issue of Amendment No 666 on the police officers, which I tabled, is again a humanitarian matter. There's an absolute need. Now, with regard to the fact that some people are blinding or hypocritically referring to areas which are really problematic - and I know that this is not the time for parliamentary scrutiny, but I must respond - as Mr Papatheodorou mentioned earlier, Exarches, I would like to say that they do not see the actions that are now being taken and forget the actions that have never been done. Of course, the issue of Thassos seemed to be how effective the government and the mechanisms of the Fire Corps and the Air Force and all those involved there were. Now, the rest of the lies and irony our people know they have short feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u84	Thank you. Mr. Vernardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make two - three clarifications, which are necessary. In the amendments for experts, we harmonize the possibility, Mr Theocharopoulos, to extend. As regards the parliamentary procedure, yes, it is an urgent procedure, because the secondments are due. It's self-evident. It's something that's been delayed. The Greek Government, the Greek side, the Greek legislation has been delayed to incorporate this possibility. It does not mean that they have to be the same, that they will be the same. It is the institutional capacity. Secondly, in relation to the reallocation of the ADP. To explain, the breakdown made in 1998 does not exist, those entities that might have been able to do so have been abolished. They were prefectures, they were other things. We have now made the distribution based on the needs of the services, but of course some artificial weaknesses have arisen here. And, of course, precisely because we are in a position to change organograms and so on, we say: 'Why is the Deputy Minister for Administrative Reform?' Because he makes the distribution, he institutionally signes the allocation, at the request of the relevant ministry, to which he has gone. It may, in other words, have gone to an alpha health centre, but it may have been done with the consent of the worker. I would stress that, because we are not dealing with mobility here, which is an irrelevant issue, but because you are putting it, I am referring to it. Here we are dealing with the distribution of people, which we did, because their positions were not there. Their positions came from a request for our services to provide us with the urgent needs of the Ministry of Health in general, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, if there are possibilities for reallocating, we should not wait for the mobility bill and the process. It can be done now, where the distribution takes place. Obviously, with the worker's consent, with his statement, there may be personal problems and great family issues and, obviously, with the suggestion made by the Minister responsible for the distribution. That's the process and nothing else. I come to the last issue, which is the most serious and the most political one. Look, the New Democracy has a nerve. It has created - I have measured them lately - at least forty-five types of different employment relationships in the public sector, from one day to eight months, to ten months, until what you want. This working gala in the public will end whether it is in the municipalities, their own interests and their own procedures or it is in the hard core of the central government. But precisely because there is a complexity in working relations and various institutional issues need to be dealt with, general legislation is not easy and that is why we need every three and a little to correct working realities arising from working groups, by the way. Why didn't you do it to the managers of the administration, you did it to those who could do it to them: In the cleaners, in the electrics, in the lifts of the machinery, where you could, where you were, where you were, where they had no reason at all. So this working gala, it's over! The Government will legislate on a single employment relationship, on rules and will obviously respect the possibilities of local authorities in particular, in relation to their budgets and their strength. Don't worry at all. After all, these people are in public today - there are not others who will come - and in some way they have been chosen and not by a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u86	Two months and eight months, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u87	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u88	With eight months, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u89	Two months!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u90	Two months is another story.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u91	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u92	Aren't there two months?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u93	You'll be waiting to see the layout.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u94	Aren't there two months on the extensions? Is that legal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u95	Please, Mr. Georgioda!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u96	This layout...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u97	Without any assessment of the municipalities? I don't understand! The month? Be on the month.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Georgioda, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u99	But he's talking about "bugs" of ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u100	Mr Georgiodda, you are shouting about matters that you do not know and are exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u101	I'm not at all ignorant.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u102	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Georgiod, you're shouting about things you're missing, you don't know and you're being exposed. You are not aware of the provision that will come and you are being exposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u104	Here's your Circular.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u105	The working galleries, Mr. Georganta, will be over. You must understand this and it is a clear statement and commitment of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u106	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u107	After the Minister, the Rules of Procedure say that the debate has been concluded, unless there is a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u108	He mentioned the word'magia' in terms of the attitude of the New Democracy and my own.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u109	Deal. If there's any personal...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u110	Please speak and listen to my answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u111	Please, if there is a personal issue, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u112	The style and content of the position by the Minister was not political, with suggestions and expressions which affect me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u113	If they are on staff, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u115	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, because we are intelligent, the 'Magua' was about the New Democracy and the government's policy. It wasn't about you. I say this to you because, as far as we know, we understand what is personal and what is not. From now on, give him the floor for personal reasons. I say that I am making a political position on the policies of the previous governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u117	The debate is closed. I don't think that's a matter, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u118	You have given me the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u119	On staff, though. The Minister said he didn't say it about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, you have given me the floor. You won't get him back after the Minister's intervention. I represent the New Democracy today, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u121	Here, you have the floor for a minute. Please, not any more, because we will perpetuate the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, if it is not a divergence that, in every amendment tabled by Mr Vernardakis in particular, he has the terminology 'by way of any general and specific provision' - it is the usual way of legislating the Ministry and the Government - if it is not a misinterpretation of the fact that, while Article 103 of the Constitution provides for a fixed term contract, the Presidential Decree of 2004 provides consistently for what is being done with fixed-term contracts, and today this government is taking advantage of the pain of workers who hope for legitimacy, what is it? We did not say that the AACC would not apply. Wherever provided for by the AACC, either for the two-month contracts or for the eight-month contracts. What is happening with this government is that, in violation of all these provisions - and I challenge someone to tell me on the basis of what provisions are being made, the provision itself says in it - comes to create an army of hostage workers, leaving out others who might perhaps claim the same positions and without any costing the burden of the Ottawas. I think this is not just a political courage on the part of the government, but a practice that leads to truly dangerous paths.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u123	The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction is hereby terminated. "Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Trans-border Police Cooperation and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u126	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u128	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u131	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Cross-border Police Cooperation and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u134	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u136	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u139	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u142	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u144	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u147	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 664 and a special number 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u149	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u153	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u155	So the amendment with a general number of 664 with a special 49 was accepted as it is majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general figure of 665 and a specialist of 50?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u157	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u158	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u161	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u163	Therefore, Amendment No 665 by a qualified majority of 50 was accepted as it is by a majority. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 666 and a special number 51 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u166	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u170	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u171	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 666 with a special number 51 was accepted as it is by a majority. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u174	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u175	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u176	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u179	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Cross-border Police Cooperation and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We are entering the vote on the entire bill. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u182	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u184	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u187	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Constitution of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Trans-border Police Cooperation and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle, articles and all of it, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u189	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-14-S1-commons.u190	With the agreement of the House at 11.48 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, September 15, 2016 at 9.30' on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) a Dedication to the World Day of Democracy and the Day of National Remembrance for the destruction of Asia Minor, (b) parliamentary control: discussion of current questions and (c) legislative work: discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament's Mr Panayotis Kammenos and Dimitrios Dimitriiadis.
