ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Eight questions will be discussed and seven questions deleted. Of those to be deleted, five are due to a Minister's blockade, of which two are due to a absence abroad. First, then, the second question under number 1051/27/2016 will be discussed with the Minister of National Defence on the relocation of refugees and migrants within the urban fabric of the Municipality of Kavala, in the Asimakopopoulou camp. Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as soon as you arrived, you didn't even have a chance to take a breath, but I'm going straight to the point of the question, and I'm going to tell you that on 24 February of this year, with my simple question to the Ministry of Defence, I had raised the issue of the concession of the Asimakopoulou camp at the eastern coastal end of the city of Kavala from the Ministry to the Municipality of Kavala. There was an exchange of views under way. The study of urban and residential use of this camp was submitted, and I must tell you that it is about for the city of Kavala that the Greek is here, that is, a very usable property and the city's only margin for residential expansion at the eastern end of Kavala. So I waited to see what would happen with the proposal in question, which was in the hands of the Ministry of Defence. He'd been through the department, YAMS, and we were waiting for an answer. Since then, there has been a overthrow of all these plans for the city of Kavala, from information and statements by the local parliamentarians, and we have learned that this camp was going to be relocation of some two hundred fifty refugees hosted up to this point in a more isolated area to the east. In other words, some work was to be done to rebuild and prepare the camp's infrastructure in order to relocate these refugees. The renovation and construction work of the infrastructure would be carried out at the expense of the Greek Army. The relocation was to be completed by the end of June, but I guess it'll take a little longer. Recently a letter was sent by the General of the 20th Division requesting the connection of two buildings with the local water supply and sewerage network. It goes away, of course - and I must say it - a financial contribution of 90,000 to the costs already incurred by the municipality of Kavala for the hospitality of the refugees since February of this year. Both the region and the municipality and the local society had no information about changing this planning and relocation of refugees. There's no information yet. I have to say that the region has allocated two containers, one with sanitary facilities and another as a mobile medical unit. He doesn't know what he's gonna do with them. There has been an information gap, which has existed since the start of the establishment of refugees in the city of Kavala, which has been welcomed, I think, ideally, if you like, solidarity and humanity, but also with the only attempt to organise it from local government. Recently we have also had the statements made by the relevant Minister, Mr Kammenos, on 24 June, who spoke about the mood - I read directly the text of the declaration - for as long as a camp takes, for a period of one or two months - it will not need any more - for the relocation of refugees from Eski - Kapou, that is, the other area where they are hosted. This concession - as stated in the text - will not block the road to the use of the camp, to make tourist facilities when the relevant interest is expressed by investors. This statement has some interest and a mystery, as obviously an offer is imminent. Possibly with the bill you are about to deposit for the real estate of the Ministry of National Defence to open the way to attracting investments. However, the two-three-month schedule seems unrealistic to me. That is why I would like to know what the Ministry says about the relocation of these refugees, whether it is this number or is going to be installed much more, since the camp can accommodate much more and what is this planning, especially since it is against the objection of local society at all its institutional levels, which has not even been asked about all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have consumed twice the year. Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor for three minutes, and please be consistent in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u4	Yes, Madam President. Mr Panayotopoulos, I would like to tell you that I have repeatedly said that the refugee issue itself, but also its management, is a matter of hospitality, solidarity and respect for the principles of international legitimacy. This also applies at international level. No one wants to be a refugee, first and foremost the same refugees. As far as the interior is concerned, it also takes a patriotic character in the sense that Greece has managed to congratulate all over the world on this issue. I now come to that. You rightly stressed that the people of Kavala, the city of Kavala, the Prefecture of Kavala with particular sensitivity has dealt with the same issue. I mean that there were weeks - several weeks and February was such a month - where twice a week in Kavala were being disembarked in favour of the thousands of refugees and immigrants, and they were being treated with tea, sandwiches and so on. Within the housing fabric of New Karvala for one month there have been refugees and immigrants and we are always in consultation with the mayor, Mrs Chanaka, precisely to resolve these issues. What is the matter now: there are currently two hundred and thirty-five refugees, mainly, who live around two months in this region. We have to agree that this is not a good place. So what is planned is these two hundred thirty-five to be transferred to this camp, and indeed to one part of it, not all, as long as it fits the two hundred thirty-five. That's why we don't make all the buildings. Besides, it was known. I mean, as soon as we've cleared it up, we've also informed the mayor about it. What I am asking is the same heat, the same hospitality to exist in this area - we are always talking about them - until the second phase of the management of the refugee is started, which we are now going to constants - one would say - structures, in large cities and in other ways. I think it's not a big deal. That's why I answer you very easily. They are two hundred and thirty-five people in a city that has over fifty thousand inhabitants. As a municipality, it has over seventy thousand inhabitants. We are therefore calling for them to be involved in this process. I would like to say to you that as regards the other issue you raised, namely the issue of the 90 000, there is an entry in the Ministry of Interior. And that's where I'm going to help them disburse them. The third point is that this does not stop. After all, there was correspondence between the HETH, Mr. Stathias and the mayor of Kavala until recently, until the day before yesterday on the question of negotiation, on how this area will be formed. I know that the will of the Municipality of Kavala and of the people of the region are the two camps, the Asmakopoulou Camp and the Kotsalou camp, to be formed in a metropolitan park now. And I want to tell you that I support it. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] One more second, Madam President. Because in the letter from the municipal council, the word 'getification' is mentioned too many times, I would like to say to you - although I am sure - that if the municipal council is 'against ghettoisation', let me also add 'against ghettoisation'. The issue is with humane procedures - one would say - hospitality and mutual interest to solve this problem. So this is going to happen in the Asmakopoulou camp.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. I will try to be brief, Madam President. Thank you for the answer, Minister. The first thing I understand is that the initial planning of the original relocation of these refugees to the other region, where they are asking for or planning to leave now, was wrong. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, But it makes sense. At each camp it is very hot and the conditions are difficult at the moment. For the local society, however, the use of Asmakopoulou and Kotsalou camps is the last great hope for the city's residential expansion. Only that way can it be extended. Its rhetoric is such that - I don't know how many you've visited the city - which has no scope to extend to anywhere else. So, and given that there were these advanced contacts with the Ministry for exchanging real estate or concession to the municipality in terms, of course, and strict conditions, there is now a disappointment because this design is overturned. Moreover, there is a concern about what timetable we are talking about, how many people are talking about, as the conditions in refugee are changing. Perhaps tomorrow, for reasons not related to the will of the government or the local society, flows can be dramatically increased, since the beginning has already been made and there are two hundred and fifty in a camp, which can easily accommodate more than ten times as many, the decision to go and the more than ten times to settle there. We therefore want a more concrete commitment - and I would say emphatic - to what the government is going to do, to how many and what timetable. As far as the financing decision was concerned, as I had announced in a timely question from the responsible Deputy Interior at the time, Mr Balafas, the decision was adopted on 19 April. On 21 April the question was debated, which, of course, mentioned very gladly that, where the money is spent, we have already decided, it remains to pass the FEK. Today, however, in early July, the municipality has not received a single euro of EUR 90,000 that had been decided to be disbursed, and it has incurred much more. Already, in April, expenditure on hospitality, reception, etc. They amounted to over 300,000. At that time I told the Minister responsible that the government should see the release of funds for the reception and hospitality of these people by the competent European Union institutions. Two funds are, the Internal Security Fund and one more, which my name is missing. So far nothing has been done and I wonder why the money has not yet been disbursed. I fear that the matter goes on with the Court of Auditors, because they have - so to speak - it is budgeted by a code which refers to natural disasters and, of course, you understand, it is not consistent to disburse the sum of natural disasters by financing the costs of hosting refugees. But this must be resolved. As long as it is not solved, both the distrust and the suspicion of local societies regarding the state's capacity to support and manage the problem is growing. And when the distrust and suspicion of the local society grows, the more negative it is on something that is announced to it in its absence, as the hospitality in this camp today has been announced. The concerns particularly about the future, especially in this area, on which the local society had invested with other projects, are reasonable. This is also relevant to the statements made by Mr Kammenos, the Minister of Defence, who spoke days ago about investments in tourist infrastructure, about the arrival of investors and others. Allow us to be very suspicious and to raise credibility in a government that so far - I beg your pardon - has shown a gap in the planning of all these activities. And he doesn't ask anyone and he doesn't plan anything, or he does poorly, and he doesn't pay anything and, in any case, he's confined to one - so to speak - a theoretical approach to the issue on the basis of solidarity and humanity. Local society has already demonstrated since the first days of February, when welcoming all these people, excess of solidarity and humanity. And now he feels that he is wrong and he is now almost punished for this excess of solidarity and humanity, which he has shown, by having to accept this decision which, as I said, was taken without asking any local body.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u8	I would like to repeat for anyone who did not understand that they are being transported from Eski - some thirty-five refugees in a better place. It's over. I have nothing more to say on this. The period, which we estimate will remain there, is within the period of completion of the second phase, i.e. the phase of the most specific structures. The phase of the most specific structures, as Mr Muszalas has already announced, is completed before the end of the year. So I'm just closing this thing. Now, if it's two months, if it's three months, that's what we'll see. I imagine, however, that you, too, agree that it is better than staying in an area that has its difficulties. At that time we said Eski - Capu in relation to the space offered to us and to which no one could live. In fact, I said, whoever wants to go live there - in the previous place - should go and if we do it, the refugees should come. Everyone told me this thing couldn't be done. Secondly, it has opened up a very long debate - particularly in recent years - on the use of the region. We'll have the new law, the bill debate. On 13 June the Mayor of Kavala sent the last document showing that this is the procedure. This process goes ahead. From there on, it is your topic - not personal, but residents - to see how you manage or how you manage this area. But there is nothing to do with this process. So I think we all have to agree that this is a better place. It doesn't affect - if you want - especially the life of the city. We're talking about two hundred and thirty-five in fifty, sixty thousand people. This place will be of open hospitality. We won't have them locked up. They didn't do anything to be locked up. Alas! I read things in some of Kavala's newspapers. I'm not saying you're responsible. I would like to point out that there is no 'profugous' disease. There are no such things. That's what we have to work on. As far as the way the government has managed - beyond the general political debate we can do - the issues of refugee from the very beginning until now, I would like to say that my knowledge is that leaders of states, universities and even the High Commissioner for Refugees, etc., congratulate us. And that's how we're going to keep going. Finally, I want to say that I know municipalities who took the money. There are municipalities and regions. I have to say that I am going to see it very carefully, because I know that these 90,000 are necessary for what the municipality has done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, will we say something about the missing ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u11	I said before how many will be deleted. I'll announce them one by one during the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u12	I've been here for five weeks, and I haven't even asked for the floor. This is the fifth week when you, the Bureau, after consultation with Mr Chakaloto, tell me to come Monday to discuss my timely question. Mr. Tsakalots refuses to come to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u13	She's scared of you, isn't she?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u14	No, because I'm not at fifty-three, probably. I don't know what to tell you about the way you say it. But I ask you, because you do not today represent SYRIZA from this position you are, you represent all of us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u15	But here, sir, we are discussing questions which are stated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u16	My question isn't for five weeks...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u17	And what do you want me to do now? I am the President at a specific sitting, which has eight questions and seven have been cancelled. The rest of you can't solve this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Tsakalotos has not been in the House for five weeks to answer the Greek question. It only answers Mr. Shoeble and the troika. Here in Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u19	Good. Written your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u20	I invite you as President to respect us as Members. Because we've been here for five weeks...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u21	This is not my responsibility. Your observation has been recorded and we move on to the next one. The fifth will now be discussed under number 1057/28-6-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the disappearance of two containers of seized cigarettes from the Organization of Limenis Thessaloniki (NOTH). Mr. Dritsas will answer the timely question. Mr. Kammenos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, good evening. This is a very serious issue. The case has come to my hands several days ago, both from publications and local bodies in Thessaloniki. I am aware of your sensitivity and the government's sensitivity to the issues of illegal acts, and particularly possible fraud or smuggling, both in itself and in the indirect or immediate loss of the Greek public's revenues, especially when we are talking, of course, about the difficult and difficult economic situation of all our Greek fellow citizens. Since 2000, in the port of Thessaloniki, a container with cigarettes was kept, which had been seized. As established after audits in December 2014, two containers had disappeared from the free zone 24 warehouse. We'll call the chips. It was Marlboro, Marlboro lights. The SADs were carried out and the responsibilities were blamed on four employees. The damage to the port was identified at EUR 3.1 million, resulting from taxes and duties, which were subsequently imposed. It was not anticipated that duties would be imposed. I mean, we had a government loss of revenue. The customs duties have chosen to be paid by the agency, while the cost - I will say - has not exceeded 50 000. In other words, we had a cost of destroying 50,000, duties and taxes of 3.5 million, and finally we paid 1,800,000 and lost two containers of cigarettes, and counted another thirty-four containers. I won't read it all. History is known. Thirty-four containers were sold to a company, which opened one day after the first auction for 1,100,000. Nobody came down. There is a second company coming down to the second auction, which was established in the intervening period. He's going down to 450,000 euros, and he gets the cigarettes. The next company goes bankrupt. I know them and they'll be recorded. They leave the cigarettes and along with the cigarettes that left for Romania, Rotterdam and the Emirata have also left Marlboro. You ask yourself, Minister, and we ask the government and we look in the mirror and ask each other what we are going to do about it. What has the Ministry of Shipping predicted? How do you plan to handle the disappearance of the containers? What stage is internal control at? What are the results so far? Has the quantity in question been identified and committed? Why so far is there no modern unclaimed regulation? Finally, why at the same time, as the workers at the EGF complain, were the thirty-four containers sold out instead of destroying them as required by the Cigarette Management Code? I would like to say here that there was an opinion that they said: 'It's okay, let them come in. It's not that good quality. Bring the inside to customs to smoke Greeks, to die." I'm sorry for my words, but I'm really upset about this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u24	Mr Kammene, I will tell you right from the outset that this question in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, in the process of timely questions, cannot be answered entirely for two main reasons. One is that the questions you ask - and you are rightly putting them - are too much and you can put more and it is not enough time. The second is that he's at the judicial investigation stage. There is a preliminary investigation, and so clearly and unequivocally no one can answer only judicial investigations. This is not an escape, I assure you. Besides, I would suggest that, if you consider it appropriate, fill in the timely question and with a simple question, so that I can send you all the data and data, which are a large volume, which I cannot quote now. What I would like to say to you is that there is no case for the Ministry - and this has also been done throughout this period - at least as far as we are concerned and for whatever purpose the Ministry of Shipping has - and for the government to leave her unforgettable. It is a serious case - no doubt - and it also has strange evidence. That's why I just got up to date in February 2015, a few days after I took responsibility for the Ministry, not officially, from information, I asked the then president and CEO of the Port Authority of Thessaloniki to make the matter public. And he actually issued a press release, but it doesn't matter, because I can give you the transmitter, which he sent it to me, which states that 'by way of instructions and directions I send you the press release I have issued'. Indeed, this case had to be made public. That was the first move the ministry made. Publicity does not solve all the problems, but it is a key condition for us all to have responsibility for everything that is happening and really to give the answers that we need to do. From there on, we followed the development of the case and when the new administration dealt with it - because after a while it changed the board - with the case and informed, it sent me two documents around October 2015. In these documents, which were detailed, I replied by letter to the Board of Directors of the PPA in January 2016, asking for answers, which were then given to me. All this is not just an correspondence. They are elements of a course and at the same time guidelines on how we should deal with the case at the Ministry's discretion. In any case, I say again that all this will not be judged at the Ministry level. They'll be judged in justice now. However, it is true that these containers of seized cigarettes have actually been lost. In my speech, of course, I will answer a number of questions, which are absolutely useful and necessary. What I want to assure you is that the investigation is not only open, but also active, both at the level of the service investigation at the Port Agency and, of course, at the level of justice, which is being conducted in advance with documents and requests that the Port Agency has put to justice in the direction of investigation. From there on, justice itself will expand this investigation in its judgment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Cammene, you have the floor. And please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u26	Yes, Madam President. Minister, I don't think we can see much right now. The Minister's right. There is a judicial investigation in progress, so we cannot interfere or provide much publicity. But what comes out of my investigation is that we're going to have to find, as far as the company that went down and took the cigarettes first, the 450 thousand, all the bank prints, how the money got in and where they went next. One day he took the competition and the company closed down, went bankrupt. The 450,000 went into the lot and the other day there was no company that took the cigarettes. The same company then smuggled the rest of them, whose luck is missing. It is also important to say that as far as I know there are malicious acts not only disciplinary persecutions or other forms of persecution against public officials. I don't know if some people are active employees, if some people are retired, if some have left abroad or what happens. However, we must be very clear and specific about what we are asking - I say this about justice, but also about the state and the ministry, but also about us as Members - so that we do not let any aspect of the case get away, because it is well established for me. They had opinions. They knew the law of customs. They knew very well what can and cannot be confiscated, how the container can leave the warehouses and go along with other containers, because there was no control. They knew very well that there was no trace of cigarettes - that is what we now bring as a government, in the bill we have finished, to know where the cigarette went from time to time produced at the factory to consumption, that is, full electronic tracking - and that there was no way of knowing where the cigarettes went after, if they went to Jumira, to Emirata, if they went to Romania, if they went to Poland or if they went to Kosovo. I conclude by saying that we should not allow this case to be made'smoking', nor tobacco smoke, nor tobacco from tax revenue. Since the Port Authority of Thessaloniki chose to give EUR 1 800 000 to duties and taxes themselves, and the officials themselves - for years 'professionals' - did not predict that if they did not destroy them, they would be considered as a product of consumption within the port and would pay taxes and charge the public with EUR 1 800 000, which is 50%, and they did not want to give EUR 50,000 to destroy them, there is a possible fraud here. I'll say it nicely. We're here to bring in a normality. And since the ports are very sensitive to both of us - and you in particular, Minister - I would very much ask you not to smoke this case. Another tobacco smoke and the smoke of lawlessness and the destruction of the health of Greek citizens, let alone the smuggling that has to stop in this country sometime. Anyone who hides from behind, let justice take him out and take the state and the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Dritsas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Colleague, I'll agree absolutely. It's a well-established story, and it's obviously a treacherous story. This is not a judicial crisis, and that is why I abrupt it. That's why, too, because a lot of the others would be a court crisis, I'm not entitled to get into the rest. But the account you do is not subjective. These are the very findings that have been given so far. It is the SAD carried out and the facts based on official documents. And, therefore, you are absolutely right that everything shows that it is well established and treacherous. Obviously, in order to have an absolute clarification, this case has happened in previous years and not in our day. Nowadays, we are now called upon to continue the investigation in such a way that the whole truth can be revealed, that the responsible and, in any case, the public can avoid any damage, because it has already been damaged so far. There is also the question of why cigarettes have not been destroyed, which have already had a life span of more than ten, twelve and fifteen years, and therefore it would not be right to make available for reasons of public health protection. However, there was an expert's opinion that they were fit for use or, in any case, such a wording as the then administration of the Port Agency considered that it should not be subjected to the cost of EUR 50,000-60,000 for the destruction, but rather to the disposal and auctioning, from which it benefited about EUR 400,000 for the Agency. Yet, in fact, no one knows who they consumed and if they consumed these cigarettes over a decade of life. In any case, what I want to say to you is that in this letter I sent to the Greek Port Authority, all the questions I raised, it was exactly in the direction - and you can see that if you ask me, as I said in your question, to send you these public documents - the further systematic investigation of the case, the answer to a number of gaps that he had so far presented. This effort has been continued by the administration of the Port Agency and so far has not completed the new ESA, because some facts for investigation have indeed been found to be relevant from the already ongoing judicial investigation and has therefore been reserved. But someone's already moved on and answered. A crucial issue, of course, is whether the search effort will be successful by three ports, where, according to the information, these boxes have been channelled and if there will be positive answers that, in fact, they have been berthed, which is also difficult. I conclude by saying that the misappropriation of these seized large cartons with these cigarettes, as they all show, has become successful precisely because of the incomplete supervision of the transfer procedure for these cigarette cartons, that is to say another batch that was closed after the court ruling. In other words, together with what was well or badly auctioned and transported, the rest were loaded, which were seized and had to remain in the office of the Piraeus Port Agency and obviously there is a question of poor supervision at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. Before we go to the next question, which will also be answered by the Minister of Maritime Affairs, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, on 4-7-2016, a criminal case for the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. I also have the honour to announce that the Ministers of National Defence, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy and Tourism, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Maritime and Island Policy, and the Deputy Ministers of National Defence, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, have tabled a draft law on 1-7-2016: “Confidence of the competence of the Ministry of National Defence”. In addition, the Ministers for Environment and Energy, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Finance, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, as well as the Deputy Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economic and Environmental Reconstruction and Energy submitted their 1-7-2016 draft law: ‘State for Safety in offshore hydrocarbon research and exploitation work, incorporation of Directive 2013/30/EU, amendment of the d.d. 148/2009 and other provisions’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. We enter the debate of the first under number 1052/21-6-2016 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the Nea Democrat Republic Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the operation of daily ships on the island of Hydra. Mr. Katasfados, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, like you, we are in a constituency which has a strong insular perfume. The constituency of Piraeus belongs to the islands of Argosaronikos, Kythera and the distant Antikythera. So we are all very close to know the huge problems these islands have had over time, the major problems faced by local communities, in particular through this economic crisis that is very plagued by them. I come here today to discuss an issue that has arisen in relation to Hydra and relates to nr. 4256/2014 for tourist ships and other provisions. As you know, Article 12 of this Act defines the terms and conditions for the activities of professional tourist guides, which are to be carried out by sea tours. In particular, paragraph 3(b) of that Article explicitly prohibits the receipt and final removal of passengers in intermediate ports. You understand that this is a huge problem for the people of Hydra. We recently met together on the island to celebrate the "Miauli". There is a very serious problem, Minister. As you can see, there are too many residents who are in favour of even old people who live in the settlements of Vlychos, Mandraki and Kaminia. All these people are now forced by the application of this law to pay a double ticket, as they will pay the route to go and return from the area in which they want to go, to one of these settlements where they are home, without getting back. So you understand that there is a very serious problem with the local port authorities, which have to implement the law, which is practically inappropriate for this region. There is a problem with both tourists and residents who face these problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I think we should make an exception, Mr Minister, because of the specific nature of Hydra, because, as you know, there are no vehicles. As a traditional settlement that is, cars and machines are banned and all transports are carried by sea taxi, boats and donkeys. So I think we should sit down and find a solution to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u31	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u32	Mr Colleague, the problem has indeed arisen and is there. I was informed a long time ago of the celebrations about "Miaoulia", because I had the opportunity to accept to the Ministry the Mayor of Hydra, the presence and the responsibility of Vice Mayor, as well as representatives and businessmen carrying out this business with the shipowners and representatives and other professionals involved in the maritime taxi activity. This whole case has led them in any case - in fact, of course, but this has been done - to competition and to a conflict of interest, I would say it, although I believe that especially in such societies, these interests must harmoniously find outlets and solutions and do not lead to conflict and competition. In this respect, I can tell you in your question what the Ministry and the Minister are going to do, what we have already done. In other words, once the issue has been raised and we have studied it, the competent services, me and the Secretary-General of the ports that have special competence, have been involved in seeking solutions, although I have also stressed to professional representatives that there are some issues that if the local society in a consultation is unable to reach agreement and resolve them, then no law is the most appropriate solution for them. I insist on that, and I think that you too should encourage this. We did so at this meeting, and I did it at "Mileia" with the people I discussed. There, apart from the services we are preparing, he has - and to his credit - taken very systematic action within the framework of his responsibilities, the Harbour of Hydra, who is responsible for dealing on the ground on the basis of the existing legislation. It has already taken positive steps towards normalising the issue. However, the legislative or regulatory action has some difficulty. In other words, what you are saying: ‘exempting the island from the prohibitions of paragraph 3b of v.4256/2014’ is not as simple as that. I would point out that this law, Mr. 4256/2014, was passed during the government's term of office. Then there was no such thing as that. That's not the problem. It wasn't traced. In any case, it is this law that has given rise to the problem, because the previous legislation that has been repealed has solved it. Now it is not easy to return to the previous arrangement, because we will abolish an overall arrangement that has already been set up, because either you have dailys and dailys licenses - with everything that means - that you receive passengers to go to a point, to an area and return by the same ticket, or you have routed ships, which requires other conditions, such as a one-line ticket. So all this was resolved by Law 2743/1999, which was abolished by Law 4256/2014, which was voted on your own governance. And it is not only Hydra, but other areas with other peculiarities, not exactly identical, but by analogy, where problems have arisen from the application of this law. And so, we're studying it. We are, in fact, in the direction of creating a balanced solution in the direction of the regulatory provisions that we can go along with in order to resolve this problem. I would point out again that in any case - and I will say a few more specific points in my speech - the government's responsibility to provide solutions and beyond Parliament's responsibility to seek proper legislation rather than to seek out problems of legislation, but legislation which solve problems, I am sure of what I have said to you, that some issues require the harmony and consensus of local communities. So these are solved in a more certain and more certain way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u33	Here, Mr. Katsafandou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I will stand up to what you said in your first speech. First of all, I do not know how the matter has been resolved, because even today I am talking about has not solved the matter. I would therefore like you to tell us how this has been solved so that our fellow citizens in Hydra can be informed and informed. Because they continue to pay 6 euros per ticket - while paying 3 euros - to make a double path that they do not need. And if they don't, they'll have to pay 10 or 20 euros to the sea taxi. Look, Minister. Our country is a country that has a great privilege. It has this geographical position and this climate, which could have helped to solve to a large extent all our financial problems through the use of tourist infrastructures and the exploitation of all tourist professions. Perhaps we could have solved the great problem of unemployment. What should exist - and I agree with you - is that there should be a culture of cooperation between all these professions associated with tourism. And I think that when we talk about ships, we should be clear - because someone might think that we are talking about ships - that we are talking about simple boats - which you know - which are going around the island. These are simple boats. From there on, then, I would like to have a clear answer, because, as you said, the problem has been solved. However, I do not have the same information. I know the mayor's visit with the officials in your office. My question had been asked before. And I'm going to stand on something. You spoke of the previous law. I believe that these problems are not problems for which we must enter into a political - party controversy. Clearly, and it was necessary for this law to enter a class in the rules of operation on ships. He also gave a development perspective, which was not in the previous law. But a law can be even better when its exceptions are strengthened. And here we are talking about an exception, which you know because of the real data that prevails on the island. From there on, with regard to which government brought one or the other law, it is better not to discuss it, Minister, because, as I have said, the islands of the Argosaron have been heavily penalised. I'll tell you one thing. You know where the tickets to the islands have now gone with the levying of VAT and the extraordinary tax, which entered 10% more last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u35	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u36	Mr Colleague, I have pointed out that this is not a one-sided issue. It comes from two - I will put it in the introductory - 'competent' professional categories, those of the diaries and those of the professional maritime taxi. There, therefore, the legislative regulations must be balanced. Isn't that right? These are nineteen professional tourist boats that are not boats. They're boats. Obviously, it is neither oceans nor cruise ships nor large ships. But they're not even boats. They are boats carrying several passengers with the entire installation. Here, then, day-to-day sea travel between the country of Hydra and the adjacent bays or shores of the island - as cars or others are not allowed. On this island - indeed they perform this service. The other service, simple transport, shall be carried out by sea taxi or may be carried out on a route. That is what we must compose and not just exclude Hydra from it. Because, apart from Hydra alone - a simple solution that you are proposing - we will be filled with other kinds of problems. In this direction, the port authority's initiative - rightly man and with great consistency and honour, having been notified by the Ministry and the Headquarters that it must take action as well to address the issue that had arisen - was that it triggered the circular of 3342/2014, allowing the diary to take place in the case of marine bath tours carried out from a port to a bay or coast, as is the case with Hydra, without intermittent approach to another port, to depart after the departure of the passengers to the bay or coast, in order to carry out another route for the best service, at the moment, under the law, the obligation to return to the port of departure. This has already contributed positively and we have a first improvement and normalisation. Obviously, it does not solve the whole question. Obviously, it is pending, but it has given a chance to have a division and a possibility of understanding. In the same direction, the possibility of transport through sea taxis not only of eight people per sea taxi, but of up to twenty - which the regulation allows, and we could give such permission - gives this another option, which, on conditionality, can cover the transport of people sufficiently. It's not a big deal. It's a small problem, big for some professional accusations, for both the island and as much influenced by it. We will resolve this in the most flexible and correct way in order to be sustainable. Only to solve this positively must we take into account the whole territory, because, if we make only an exception for Hydra, it cannot only apply to Hydra. It must be regulated by law. It must also apply to other cases and there, in fact, correct legislation will not be satisfied. We take all this into account, because that is how we want to legislate. Be sure that we can work together in this process and will not spend the summer with the tension that took place last month on the island and will find the relevant balances that are necessary for the benefit of the whole island. The issues you identified for the islands of Greece and for the islands of Saronicos are real. There's no reason to add a new one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. Before entering the debate on the next question, I have another announcement to make to this House. The Ministers of Culture and Sport, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Education, Research and Religion, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economics, Development and Tourism, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance, submitted a draft law on 4-7-2016: “College management of intellectual property rights and related rights, grant of multi-territorial permits for online use of musical works and other issues, responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Sport”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The third will be discussed with number 1035/21-6-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the performance of the end by wind parks in mountain villages of Argolida and all of Greece. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in 2013 with L.4203 an important issue was solved which involved about two hundred seventy mountain villages in the country and about fifty thousand inhabitants of these regions. I am talking about the way in which the Algorithm was to be allocated, namely, the allocation of 2.5% in total, which were reserved by wind parks in local communities. From this 2.5%, 1.5% goes to the local communities, to the local villages, and 1% goes as a reduction in electricity to the permanent inhabitants of these regions. We need to talk about over 40 million in total now. I'd like to see what the Ministry's evidence is. Of the evidence available to us, 18 million have to be attributed to these fifty thousand people. For example, according to the share of Argolida, 1,200,000 are expected in Karystos, 1.500,000 in Tripoli, 800,000 and so on. The question once again has to do with an important delay that has occurred, since in December 2014 the major issue that was the algorithm to be allocated to these villages was resolved. Unfortunately, a whole year has taken place and only in December 2015, after a whole year, the working group was set up, which would be introduced in a short time to the Minister, that is, to you, the allocation of funds. Indeed, in December 2015 the committee was formed and within just two months it was recommended and you published the ministerial dividing decision in February.However, from February until today, another four months have passed. The question, therefore, is when this definitive division is going to be made, the definitive distribution of electricity bills by the inhabitants of these regions and what is going to be done with the money that must also be attributed to all mountain communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u39	Minister Skourletis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Manatis, this case is not beginning in December 2014. He has an entire history. For an issue that concerns the period from 2010 - from then on, the amounts are allocated - by 2015, you started measuring the months from there and then. You are well aware that on 23 February, as you mentioned, there was a ministerial decision on the basis of which the provisional list of beneficiaries was issued for the allocation of the fee. From there on - and I imagine that you remember it since you were at the Ministry - there is a procedure of objections that must be submitted. At the same time, for those cases where there are no objections, and for what you refer to in your question about your region, which you are reasonably showing a special interest, there has been a blockade, due to the exchange of information with RAE. There was an correspondence and some changes in relation to the beneficiaries and some elements. From that point on, this should normally have been completed in June. If, in June, a final table had emerged, then we'd be okay. Right now we're in July. The working party is currently preparing the final table. Subsequently, there must be reference by the DEDEFOP to beneficiaries, i.e. domestic consumers, and after the UNGO to credit this amount to the suppliers, who are now obliged to credit this 1% to the domestic accounts. Last briefing, which I have from the services, is that within the next few days this process will be completed, for cases, I repeat, where there are no objections. In other cases, it will go a little further, but the working party is also pressing for it to be completed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u42	Mr Minister, it is a pleasure - it seems from the information you give us - that a matter which has been resolved over the next few years is probably resolved. I think it is a good news for the people of the mountainous regions of the country. What I would like to ask, however, accompanyingly - and you did not answer your prototype - is what is going on with the about 25 million, if my calculations are correct - which must be attributed, not to the inhabitants, to the domestic consumers, but to the municipalities, who also have to pay back to the local villages. Here too, since I am given the time, I note that it is extremely important from this Chamber that all of us, together, send the message that these rewards should be invested in these villages, where wind parks are located, and not that they are dispersed into areas which are not 'charged' by wind farms. Therefore, I do not know if you have the possibility in your dentext, but I would be pleased to hear that in July we will be able to allocate the money to the domestic consumers of all regions, but I also repeat, I would like you to inform us about what is happening with the money that needs to be invested, essentially as public infrastructure, by the municipalities in these mountain areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Maniatis, you referred to a problem that you said it had been for years. Of course, it could have been over the days of the government - the period 2010-2014 is about four years - something much more time-consuming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u45	This is n.4203/2013. Since 2013 we have to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u46	Yes, yes, there is still a period that exceeds the year. So do not invoke a criticism, which is not just about the present government, but about the scaffolding of yours. Putting things in the way they really are and not seeing half the reality. In any case, what seems to be happening in the next few days, that is to say, to make the distribution of these amounts a reality, is something that is happening for the first time. And that is something positive, which we must welcome. From there on, there is the amount you have said, which is now about the communities. Obviously, this concerns the wind turbines. This recompense must be safeguarded and applied, otherwise its dissemination in areas which do not host wind parks would effectively nullify the whole philosophy and logic of this matter. We will also press, as political leadership, for this process to be completed as soon as possible. The amount at the moment, as you know, is over 18 million, to be distributed. From there on, there are also the following years, for which we must follow immediately after the same procedure, that is, for 2015. There is no need to wait every time for the problems to run, to go beyond the two-year period and then to remember how to split these amounts. I think that in this way, after all, we will also be able to create a different relationship with renewable energy sources, wind and local societies, because here - I do not hide you - on the basis of your question, that there are huge gaps in what we call the'spatial planning for the RES in Greece'. It's not right now that we have situations where one undoes the other or we think we can go anywhere and put on wind parks. For example, we cannot enter a concept where islands, cyclades, which have a large load of wind, can become sites of exclusive power, so that we can channel it to mainland Greece, but thereby canceling their tourist income, the income that comes from tourist activity. These are issues that your government has not seen, they have not been approached at all, and we are forced to approach them, because we will indeed not go to situations, which will also create a rivalry with local societies themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u47	So you're going to redesign the RES's spatial plan?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u48	Time's up, but didn't you hear? Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u49	You were exemplary both in time and the questioner and the respondent. Don't ruin it now. Don't mess it up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u50	Ten seconds, Madam President. You just know, sometimes, and if you want to sanctify, the Minister doesn't leave you, because he now opens up another subject, the spatial development of renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u51	Yeah, but there's no third round.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u52	Mr Kegeroglu, however, reminded me that we, as a parliamentary group, have tabled a whole question, which we believe has helped speed up these procedures, even with the delay in the last few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. Before we go to the next questions, I'd like to address the ones who've been cancelled. The first question under number 1056/28-6-2016 of the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafylou, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the completion of the work of the Messology Marina, will not be discussed, because Mrs Helena Kountoura will not respond, due to an unsuccessful obligation. The third, with number 1026/21-6-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problems of primary production of Crete from drought and high temperatures, will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of Minister Apostle. Also, the tenth question under number 1012-17-2016 of the Second Cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the loss of subsidisation by young farmers and tenants of rural land, will not be discussed due to the misappropriated obligations of Minister Apostleos Apostleos. The fourth question, under number 1061/28-6-2016, will now be discussed at the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on safeguarding the working and insurance rights of employees of the "Athens Ledra". Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we are finally discussing the question of workers at the 'Athens Ledra' Hotel after four postponements. The workers, who represent them from the gallery, expect to hear the government's position on the situation in which they have come from the choices made by the employer, which makes use of the legislative framework, which you have created or implemented, and you have been doing all this time. We note that for thirty-five days now they are struggling, strengthening their action. Today, as you know, Minister, at the Ministry, the performance that had been organised has become a gathering, expressing the workers of all branches and pensioners their opposition to your policy, claiming that workers are paid, compensated, stopped redundancies, that there is no lower wage than 751 euros, that collective agreements should be restored in the period before the crisis, that wages and pensions losses should be covered. Among these were the employees at the "Athens Ledra", who came along from the hotel. Minister, it is well known that the hotel 'Athens Ledra' is the case. The employer ceased to operate on 31-5-2016 without having informed what he intends to do about the employment relationships of more than 50 employees, leaving them unpaid since March, without paying the Easter gift. This hotel belongs to an owner, who has, among other things, a group of several profitable companies. At a time when he interrupted his operation, he had high completeness, as well as reservations for the next period. The economic reasons to which the address referred, in order to justify its action, were only the result of conscious choice not to pay workers, suppliers and insurance contributions to IKA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Both the business club and the trade union had informed the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the possibility of risking their working and insurance rights for over a year, last time when Easter's gift was not paid. Now this practice of "Athens Ledra", Minister, is generalized and the practice of "ELECTRONIC ATHENS", "PYRS" has, of course, opened the appetite for other groups. Today workers, after many strikes, with the work they now have, claim their demands. You ask yourself, Minister, what you will do to ensure that workers are paid their debts and that jobs are ensured by the evolution of the hotel, because I imagine that the hotel will become, there will be no home. Of course, the EUR 1 000 emergency aid is also pending for workers who have been discussed at the Ministry of Labour. We do not have that in the timely question why all these meetings took place. What's gonna happen? Why is he stalling? Also, what about speeding up the grant of the employee allowance? This also does not mean, Minister, to go to August, 'which is thick flies', which our people say. It means speeding up, giving the OAED now, because the workers have been unpaid since March. That is all, Minister, and we ask for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u55	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u56	Mr Colleague, as you know, the postponement of previous time-consuming questions has been made because of my objective weakness, due to travel abroad. You know that I pay particular attention to coming to the surface of similar phenomena, such as what you point to your questions, and I am normally trying to be present to answer them. You also know that, as we have said many times, it is one of the government's main priorities to reverse the generalised deregulation brought by the neoliberal policies of the past five years. That is why we insisted that it should be one of the three axes of the labour negotiations to restore collective bargaining. We are also doing everything we can with the subordinated force of the Labour Inspectorate, which we have received, and we are trying to control such jungle-based phenomena, such as those which are very often correct and you, with your questions, are pointing out. In this case the means available to the Ministry of Labour have been exhausted. Fines were imposed on the company because it failed to inform the employees and suddenly suspended its operations. Two meetings were held at the Ministry of Labour on May 17 and June 17, 2016. They have already been launched, so it is a matter of days, the payment of both the EUR 1,000 special aid and the special adjuvant allowance. You are right to point out that the 'LEDRA MARRIOTT' case is not an isolated phenomenon. We are not always able to say - because these require judicial investigation - how many of these are just symptoms of the crisis that we are trying to reverse - and we already have the first signs of relative recovery - or manifestations of this peculiar Greek parasitic capitalism with triangular relations of interaction and the bad entrepreneurship that resulted in it having rich entrepreneurs and bankrupt businesses. I cannot talk about this company, precisely because, as I have said before, these issues must be subject to judicial investigation. I would like to assure you again, as we do in similar cases, that if concrete measures are requested within the competences of the Ministry of Labour we will take them, as we have in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u57	Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u58	Minister, you should be aware that these serious reasons and the discussions and the journeys you are taking are even more concerned with the workers, because these discussions with the European Union's staff, the 'cost of alliance', prevent the new attack on the jobs rights left. As is well known, in the third memorandum, what do you write? "The changes in labour market policies should not imply a return to earlier policy frameworks, inconsistent with the objectives of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth." That is what you have agreed, Minister. I would remind you that, in a previous timely question, you have invoked the limits of competence, as you are, of course, putting it today and the existing legal framework. Minister, the rhetorical question arises: What power sets you the limits that this force obviously does not have? And who accepts the consequences of the limits set by those who put them? Who is it that creates the legal framework, implements it and does not change it? The limits of course are set by the business groups and you are moving within those limits that ensure their sovereignty and profitability. The legislative framework aims at safeguarding them against a poor, impoverished, impoverished, thrown on the street and invoking the laws of the state. They are classic, philosopher-aiding laws, reducing the price of labour, abolishing all the rights acquired by the working class with many sacrifices, even with blood. If, as you say at times, the questions of the JRC, which you answer, are correct, if you are as you say against the neoliberal policies that are to blame for the sufferings of workers who create conditions of slavery, 'older', what solutions do you give as a minister who can legislate, set other limits and not move, as is implyed, to the limits set by the employers or the previous neoliberal governments? Minister, you can't fool people for long. You have brought an amendment that made the shareholders responsible for employees' employment responsible. After the BSE reaction you took it back. And that is not enough, you also abolished a prior arrangement, which made it accountable for debts to the insurance funds and the shareholders of the companies. Let me remind you that last year with the new Code of Civil Procedure to satisfy the non-preferential requirements in the ranking table you legislated to reduce the rate of satisfaction of the labour requirements to 25%. These, Minister, together with the law - plundering pensions, which despite the lies that pensions will not be reduced, and now the pensioner sees it in his pocket, are your creations too. They have your signature. The war against the workers continues with the new attack you are preparing for work. The best practices you are discussing in the European Union are those that increase profits. You, with your legislative work, are the standard in applying best practices to the other urban governments of the Member States of the European Union, such as France, which is being played by us saying 'We are applying what Greece has decided'. The demands of workers, Mr Minister, are in particular: the payment of the wages due to workers. To prevent the effort of the employer that makes use of your anti-gauge arsenal to get rid of workers with built-in rights. You know very well that this is the target. Working people, determined, have sent out a message in their power: they will not retreat. They will strive to ensure their work and their rights. They owe it to themselves, to their children. They're not alone in this fight to know. They have the solidarity of other workers in the industry and other sectors that strengthens every day. The tricks of employer and government won't pass. The workers are determined, and you must take this into account, Minister, for the attitude you will take when you are invited to take a stand against the employer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u60	Mr Colleague, as you know, the limits of each government's policies are set by the correlation of existing powers. And the correlation of power is mainly between the powers of capital and the powers of work and Greece and Europe. This government has not passively accepted the negative correlation of power at both national and European level, but has tried to set an example of an alternative economic policy in relation to neoliberal orthodoxy. This, too, emerged in the insurance reform, which at the moment has given the only social security system in the context of the last two decades of reforms in the European Union that insisted on the public redistributive nature of the social security system, without making any concessions to the capital or private nature, namely the introduction of capitalisation or private capitalisation. Although we are in an extremely unfavourable economic situation, it has safeguarded incomes, especially small and medium-sized. With the institution of national pension and the rates of replacement, at the moment the public social security system in Greece gives higher rates than the other public social security systems and obviously no one can be pleased with the current levels of pensions. that corresponds to a poor society from the policies of the neoliberal necklace. In this context, however, the smallest pension pie we have operated, we have at least taken care of the rules of equality and social justice to share in a fairer manner. And, as you know, no main pension has been reduced, we have set reductions and supplementary pensions to the minimum. As far as labour is concerned, as I told you, we will see in September how far we will have achieved. At the legal level with the ratification after twenty years of the revised European Social Charter, the most advanced convention, at European level, of protecting the rights and strengthening of the world of work against generalised deregulation and of the more general alliances that we have sought at international and European level, we are precisely seeking to reverse these unfavourable correlations of power and actually bring Greece back to social Europe. What we consider to be good European practices is the obsession with the European social model, namely the regulation of the market with social rights, regulations and guarantees of individual and collective labour law. The negotiations and the final legislation on employment in September will also be initiated. With regard to the specific claims made by the workers, as I have told you, we have started them under the existing legislation on the special financial assistance for the allowance. If there are specific requests for our own powers, what we currently have to help further workers, we are prepared to exercise them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. The second is the 1060-28-6-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on dealing with the problems of workers in fertiliser plants in Kavala. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, that the attack by the working class on the back, of course, and your own government, is complete. It is not only demonstrated by what is being done in ‘Athens Ledra’. We see it every day with business closures, with payroll, with employment ghettos, unemployment. Another example of ergonomic aggression, barbaricity, I could say, against its six hundred employees is the ELFE - Greek Kavala Fertilizers. It is the only one, we note, the industry that has remained in our country, which is also profitable. What does the company that has at its side and the state suppressive mechanism and the MATs want whenever they need it? But what other than reducing wages and imposing individual contracts of employment, the best practices of the European Union, that is. He's already done it with the company's contract workers, and now he wants to generalize it to everyone. By threatening the workers and making use of two of their subsidiaries, which it rented, it loaned the workers for a certain period, which ended in June, it blackmailed them with redundancies if they did not sign 15-month individual contracts with large wage cuts and after each employee signed a voluntary resignation. The majority of workers, of course, have been resisting and are not undermining the pressures and threats of employment. In retaliation, the company applies arbitrary, illegal and unfavourable changes in the subject matter, often unnecessarily with the specialty they recruited. Not only does it deny some to give them work, but it has already proceeded since last Friday and to thirteen redundancies of workers. Locking this attack the company applies a special lock out. It imposes mandatory permits and three months' availability. Minister, we are asking you what measures are to be taken to get these thirteen redundancies first, to secure the jobs of workers by signing a new collective agreement with the same terms as the previous one covering contractors? We are also asking you what measures will finally be taken to stop this predicament, threats and pressures of the employer and if you intend to abolish the company's ability - and not just that - to proceed to individual contracts of employment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u64	Mr Colleagues, we pay particular attention as a government and as a Ministry of Labour in this case and because it concerns the protection of workers' rights, which you have referred to and because it concerns local society as another case of the possible continuation of the deindustrialization tendencies. It is precisely because of this importance that we are giving, tomorrow I have made sure that I am personally present at the trialogue meeting, which we have called on the Ministry of Labour and which will be the third successive meeting. So tomorrow, if you want obviously you can also be present in the effort we will make to see what is happening in this case. As you rightly point out, the main legal issue, which is not easy to resolve in the systematic efforts made by the Labour Inspectorate and the relevant bilateral meetings at the Ministry, is whether we had transferred a company or borrowed workers to these triangular relationships between ELFE, ELLAGROLIP and PFIC. As I said in a previous question by my colleague, Mr Katsiotis, on a similar subject from the NITSIAKOS company, it is not easy for labour inspections to investigate whether there is indeed a transfer of businesses - so we could exercise the protections for workers in this case - or for the closure of the company or for the simple lending of workers who, as you know, are currently governed by a framework that we have not been able to change. So we will see tomorrow in the context of the meeting we have, if we can turn more light on the case. By then, as you know, systematic checks have been carried out by the relevant Labour Inspectorate. There have been some infringements of the mandatory permits, for which the procedure for imposing the sanctions in question has been initiated. As we have shown in the past, we will try to do everything we can - I repeat, although you are counting on this - in the context of the limited powers we have as the Ministry of Labour in a capitalist country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Madam President. You said that you pay particular attention to the cavala compost industry, it's the last one left. But that is what the government is interested in, because the work of the government is saying that since the end of March that this company started transferring the workers to two subsidiaries, the government has just done nothing, yet it is still looking at it. You place your hopes or your actions on the tripartite, which will take place tomorrow. But the question, Minister, is that this company's employer is moving forward with its counter-working work. The answers you have given do not think that they reassured the workers, moreover they had a generality, were not specifically addressed to the questions that we asked you. Let us say here that, in relation to the individual contracts of work which began after the end of the re-energy since last March, they are making use of this legislative framework, the labour legislation of a capitalist country, which you have now managed, and which you are making progress with, as far as the interests and needs of capital are concerned. On the issue now of the company, which transports workers, rents, creates subsidiaries, puts within the company a contracting company by creating even security issues for a chemical industry - you know how sensitive this issue is - we have also tabled a request for documents from the Ministry. We expect the answers to see whether these company's moves are compatible even with this legislation. But, Minister, we would like here to tell you that you do not have the right and you cannot appear as a spectator of the facts and developments in the labour jungle. First of all, as you said before, in reply to the question by Christos Katsotis - you spoke about the correlation of powers between the powers of capital and work. So where are you? Working forces or capital powers? Look, it is provocative on your part, when you have voted for the third memorandum, the insurance law, you have reduced pensions, Mr Minister, you have cut the NSA from forty thousand people, coming here and telling us that you have not reduced pensions. After that you come and say you're with the forces of work? Your works say so. Anyway, with what is being done and with the second assessment to improve the competitiveness of Greek capital, after what you are thinking of legislating and agreeing with the European Union - that is, limiting the strikes, changing the trade union law, all these best practices of the European Union with the mini-jobs, zero-time contracts, active ageing and so many other things that our people, all the things that are the European acquis, the best practices of the European Union - I think they have nothing to expect from the workers from your own policy. And what they must do is strengthen their organization and their struggle and protect themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u67	The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, George Katrugalos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u68	Mr Colleague, as far as the forthcoming negotiations are concerned, I am referring wholesalely to what I said in the previous position. We will not even agree to discuss any matter relating to mini-jobs, further elasticisation of the labour market, for the simple reason that we have ensured in advance that they do not appear on the lines of discussion. The three lines of discussion, as you know, are firstly the reintroduction of the collective bargaining we have set ourselves, secondly the collective redundancies and thirdly the trade union law that has been put on the other side. As far as the trade union law is concerned, we will not accept any reduction in the right to strike. It's the sacred and the last weapon of the workers. We are on the side of the world of work, and we are proving this despite the differences that we have and which I think to a large extent both history and the Greek people will judge. On the issue of collective redundancies, our tactics towards the extreme player who is the International Monetary Fund is to reiterate his regular isolation, as we have successfully done in the pension negotiations. I would remind you that the people of the International Monetary Fund have insisted that they reject any increase in employers' contributions, which was necessary to maintain pensions at the level they were. When this position was isolated by accepting even from the employers' organizations this necessary increase, rationalised and small contributions, at the end we were able to achieve the objective pursued, which was to replace the zero deficit clause, which would lead to a 30% medium-term reduction in subsidiary contributions to this very limited adjustment we have achieved. On this point, I would like to tell you that you yourself consider that there is clarification and clarification as to whether or not these are really loan or transfer operations. In introductory terms, your question is: 'What action does the Ministry intend to take to clarify whether the borrowing operations of the employees of ELFE, ELAGROLIPA S.A.' and PFIC constitute a transfer of the company? So you consider this to be a matter of concern and not a given fact. And I said that it is not one of the things that can be solved easily - although we will pursue it tomorrow - at the stage of a tripartite negotiation. Unfortunately, it is one of the things that needs a judicial crisis, because research is needed on the realities that we do not often have the opportunity to highlight in a tripartite context. We will, of course, do our best tomorrow in our meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. I'm going to read other questions that have been deleted. The Question No 916/27-5-2016 seventh timely question of the second Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on "the targeting of Greek citizens from a well-known para-stated anti-semitists' website" is not discussed due to a workload and unsettled obligations of the Minister. The eighth Question No 907/25-5-2016 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the progress of the projects to make use of the former airport of Greece, will not be discussed due to a workload and outstanding obligations of the Minister. The fifth top question by No 957-7-6-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the New Democracy Parliamentary, Mr Panagiotis (Nosti) Mitaraki to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the protection of Feta in European Union trade agreements will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr Stathakis, abroad. Eleftherios Aegaki, Minister for Economic Affairs, Development and Tourism, on the worsening of the manufacturing sector in our country, will also not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr Stathakis, abroad. Now we're going to the last two questions that the Minister of Health will answer, Mr. Xanthos. First will be discussed under number 1014-17-2016, fourth timely question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the PASOK-Dimitrios Cremastinos to the Minister of Health on the collapse of public health. This is like a party question, Mr. Kremastein. Let me see what Mr. Blondie will answer. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, Minister, the World Health Organisation says that to see how a country's health system is and how its public health is, you need to see its indicators. For example, in Ethiopia life expectancy is fifty years, while in Monaco, which has the best survival expectancy, is in ninety years. You don't have to look to see what's going on in every state's public health. You can see it. So I will invoke ours, too. And I will ask the Ministry of Health, because unfortunately the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister bear all the burdens and errors that are made at the Ministry. Maybe it's not his fault. But I ask the Department of Health. Is there a given place on the planet that the seasonal flu has more victims than the pandemic or, if you like, the influenza epidemic? So, in short, I would like to ask whether and whether the 100 ninety-seven dead we had this year, of which twenty-five out of unit - why did not the beds have been opened to enter the unit - is it justified that they should have died when the pandemic and all the puzzles we have recorded so far in the country has not been achieved? It was a record! So, how did this record become? Is there any country on this planet that has the relevant phenomenon? And I'm saying that to prove there's a real health problem. The second question I would like the Minister to answer is: Do you know of a medical club on the planet - there may be trade unions, political differences between the clubs and the Ministry - which sues the Ministry and calls on experts, including me, to explain scientifically how this phenomenon is happening? I think that this thing, in other words, a lawsuit against the Minister for a charge of homicide - because this is what I also told the President of the Medical Association - is a world originality, beyond Hippocrates, which says that he is a doctor who is committing a homicide. I won't invoke Hippocrates. But I invoke something that is unique in our time. The third and most important, Minister, and I want you to take note of this third, is that in your ministry there are people who are confusing the campaign, namely the information campaign - which the World Health Organisation says - and the so-called advertising campaign. But the information campaign is going on with this mechanism all over the world. In fact, the World Health Organization says that the campaign, that is, the campaign, the information campaign for cigarettes, Madam President, cost three trillion dollars. You understand. What is the effort in this direction, ours, the Ministry, the country, at least this year? How much did he spend on this thing, the information campaign, and where did it happen? Because when we say information campaign, we mean not media, televisions, radios, etc., but we mean church, we mean links, we mean schools, we mean sports organizations, we mean army, everything, with brochures, etc. That's not what's happened. As a result, Madam President, we have these sad results. Because you need to know one thing and remember it: in an epidemic, or seasonal or any, flu, even washing hands every day before food protects against possible victims of influenza. That's a post. If the Minister answers these questions frankly, he will understand where the problem is. So I am obliged to ask this question today even late because I was called by justice to answer these questions, scientifically - and I repeat it - and not politically. And, of course, I would also like to hear the view of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u71	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u72	My dear colleague, with all due respect, I think you have made quite methodological and political mistakes. First you call for an intervention from the Athens Medical Association, when you know very well that at this level, with this argument, with an attempt to criminalize the political process that has been carried out by this particular president of the Medical Association, no serious scientific and trade union in the country is embraced. This relationship between the actual increased number of deaths from influenza, which can be fully documented with scientific data - and I will tell you later - this relationship with the really difficult health system has not made it either the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association nor the Scientific Society for Intensive Treatment, nor the Scientific Society for Emulsifiers, nor, of course, the CSCE, nor any other serious and organised and institutional services of the State involved in the protection of public health. So this year, we had a flu pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u73	A pandemic?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u74	An annual epidemic outbreak, Mr Cremastine, which occurs in all the countries of the world with thousands of victims every year. And this year we have a highly infectious strain, a subtype of A virus, which 98.5% prevails, which is essentially compared to the corresponding subtype of the year 2010-2011. So I will tell you the evidence and you will draw your conclusions. In 2010-2011, where, respectively, was 97.7% of this subtype, we had three hundred sixty-eight confirmed cases in the country and a hundred and eighty deaths, of which thirty-six were out of intensive treatment units. These are the comparable results. In the remaining years, in the intervening period, other subtypes dominated or type B dominated in a ratio much larger. So the death rate in relation to the confirmed laboratory cases this year, Mr Cremastine, was 45%. In the year to which I am referring, it was 50%. So we cannot - and I think that this is really scientifically arbitrary, which serves a certain political feasibility, a opposition of course - make comparisons of this type. We know the problems in intensive care units, we recognize them, and we have made very specific interventions to solve them. In this period the first doctors are appointed from the CEDEFOP notice and the remaining nurses follow. The problem of population vaccination is, of course, the most serious problem in my opinion. This is preventive intervention, which must be founded on our society. We have over time a low rate of vaccination coverage of the population. There is an anti-infectious culture both in the general population and in the sanitary body. In the health body it is 10% and in the general population it does not exceed 15%, when in other advanced countries in Europe these rates reach 70%. That's a time-consuming problem, Mr. Kremastine. It was not caused by frugality and indifference of our own or the prior political leadership of the Ministry, and this is why we must bend together and make efforts systematically, in order to convince the health workers, who also treat the patients, but also the vulnerable groups of the population. It is no coincidence that 85% of deaths occur in vulnerable categories of the population. There's also a 15% that doesn't belong to these high groups, so there's no evidence of vaccination, and yet they're infected by the virus and some of them end up. So that is exactly the framework in which we move. There was an outbreak this year. It was particularly infectious. This has happened in all the countries of Europe and the rest of the developed world. Where this strain prevailed, there was an increased number of deaths both within intensive and unintensive. Of the four hundred thirty - eight confirmed deaths, the four hundred eight were hospitalized in intensive care units. So it cannot be invoked by the health system, by the Minister, and indeed by actions of criminal negligence and manslaughter for the sake of impression and - let me say - of opposition populism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u76	Madam President, I have asked three questions, and I have only received one answer, which concerned the President of the Medical Association, which I personally do not care about, but I have just mentioned it as a fact, namely that I do not know whether there is a world president accusing ministers or a minister for homicide.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u77	Do you adopt it, Mr. Kremastein? That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u78	I said I didn't know. That's what I said. If I don't know how to adopt? I don't know. But what I would like to say to the Minister is that I do not make methodological mistakes. If the doctors who advise you say they make or make methodological mistakes, tell them my condolences! I don't know who they are, but tell them. Politics you can say anything, but methodological errors I don't do. As regards what you mentioned for the hundreds of eighty, I would like to tell you that 2010 was the same virus about, as this year, H1N1, who must take into account the fact that he had a hundred eighty victims and this year ninety-seven with seasonal flu. You must bear in mind that at the time it was the first contact of the virus, it was created immunity in the population, it had been vaccinated. I mean, it wasn't the first contact right now. Normally you have to tell those who told you about methodologically that you shouldn't have a thirty, not a hundred ninety-seven! Methodologically, tell them, you shouldn't have had thirty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u79	You're wrong, Mr. Cream.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u80	I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u81	Consult a serious infectious person.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u82	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u83	I am not mistaken, because I, Mr Xanthi, am a reviewer in Europe and America's largest magazines and I do not make methodological mistakes. Get the doctors to talk to me, if you want us to go that far. I'm a reviewer. Do you know what a reviewer will say? He's judging the papers published. Methodological errors I don't make! I tell you and they come here to discuss them scientifically, not politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u84	We are not in your specialty, Mr Kremastine, this is an issue that concerns an infectious person. We're not having a scientific conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u85	Methodological errors are in all specialties. So I do not accept that. The second thing I have to say is this. You do not know that if you had a SARS epidemic this year - and tell doctors - or birds, you would have hundreds of dead people. What you do not know is that half of Europe's population died of the Spanish flu. What you do not know is that Europe has been deprived of plague. We are not playing with these things and this is not political! You're talking to a man who's devoted his whole life to these things. Forget politics and come to science. In science, I'm very strict and tough. We're not playing with this stuff! If you had an SARS epidemic, tell the people you're told, you'd have hundreds of dead and not a hundred ninety-seven. In these weather conditions you should have nothing with H1N1, even of type A you're talking about. I'll take it. But I have something else to tell you that the whole world will understand. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Madam President, because it's important. In mid-January, a television station reported that children are dying in a child hospital from flu and a representative of the Ministry appears - if you like, to give you both the names of the journalist and the station - and says: 'Where do you see the flu? There is no flu, there are no dead." Mid-January. I asked you what information you gave the world and you didn't answer me. I asked you, where were the vaccination centres that the population had to be vaccinated and you did not answer me. I asked you: have at least the nurses and doctors been vaccinated in hospitals, which transmit the flu? You didn't answer me. Because the answer here is that not even 10% was vaccinated. So what are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u86	She's not inoculated over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u87	I am talking about this year, because if we start talking over time, we will go to Kapodistrias. So for this year, none of this happened and you come and tell me that I support the president of the Medical Association? For Christ's sake! I told you that I was invited to court as an expert, not as a politician, and I certainly did not say what you forced me to say now. Because I would very much like them to come and tell me, because of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u88	All right, Mr. Kremastein, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u89	Madam President, I shall end, but on the methodological point I do not accept a debate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u90	Minister, you have the floor, but be consistent in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Kremastein, this year there has been sufficient vaccines. They were informed by the Ministry's Directorate-General for Public Health with circulars all. All the health staff of all public units, as was the medical clubs and everyone. As far as health workers are concerned, I think it is even problematic to discuss the need for specific information. There's a denial, Mr. Kremastine. Can you understand that? There's a denial! Should we discuss how to comply? Let's talk to them all you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u92	Has it been briefed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u93	Of course it's done. Of course! The Infectious Infections Committees of Hospitals...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u94	How much money did you give for the briefing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Kremastino, imagine that this debate was held this winter!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u96	Listen, Mr. Kremastein, don't cause, asking how much money we've given...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u97	Why am I provoking?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u98	...the moment that it has become a political theme about the money that CCIO gave from here and there to "later" media in the name of the information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u99	Excuse me, have I said anything about the CDC?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u100	Please, please! Right now, I'm explaining. There was an adequacy of vaccines. There was adequacy of antiviral drugs. We had ensured free access to antiviral medicines to citizens, even from private pharmacies, and it is understood by the pharmacy of EEA and hospitals. As far as health workers are concerned, everyone is aware. There is no need for a special campaign to vacate the health staff, which is still not vaccinated, much more the general population, who has in one part developed an anti-infectious culture. That's the truth. Let's talk about it, find ways to deal with it as much as you want and take initiatives, invite both the scientific and the medical community and the other health professions, to find ways to deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u101	In January the Department of Health said that there were no dead people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u102	Look, the ministry didn't say such things. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u103	Please, Mr. Kremastein! You know the whole rule from the outside, but you don't apply it! Please, you're both done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u104	After I heard that. That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u105	Unfortunately, you are adopting a line of trouble and politically and scientifically. I'm telling you honestly with all due respect. Mr Patoulis is the first of the 'Resign' movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u106	Let him go! Did I tell you to quit?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u107	He has been calling for the resignation of health ministers since October last year. Please, too! Now he's going to justice. Do you think justice can solve the scientific and political problems of an organised state?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u108	What are you asking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u109	But you adopt it. Adopt this concept.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u110	I don't adopt it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not have a dialogue between you. Mr. Kremastine, you are President and you know the Rules of Procedure. We're running out of time. Ladies and gentlemen, we must move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u112	In any case, I would like to say this: Mr Cremastine, I am neither the guardian of public health nor anything. There are institutions, scientific bodies, administrative bodies, which deal with this issue. That's what they think. They promote this view in the Ministry's political leadership, and that is what we are deciding. This type of criticism has not been made by any serious scientific body in the country. I repeat that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u113	I've reported the WHO...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u114	I think, Mr. Creamy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u115	... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u116	But let me speak, Mr. Kremastine. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Kremastein, please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u118	What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u119	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u120	But you can't answer now. You don't know that? Should I be able to comment on you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u121	First of all, the reference you made to the World Health Organisation also wants to have a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u122	Does he want a conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u123	Of course, he wants a debate, because life expectancy, Mr Cremastine, is not just dependent on health systems. There is barely enough literature, which says that people's life expectancy depends on social healthmakers, i.e. income, living, eating, housing, environmental factors and, of course, only 20% depends on the contribution of health services. This is the WHO's holistic concept of health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u124	Please, too! On these issues we, too, have a view and experience and knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Xanthi, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u126	So please, very much! What I want to say, by end, is this: the criticism is acceptable. No one wants to delight the problems and the difficulties. But it is another thing to detect gaps, to identify uncovered needs, to identify malfunctions and another to create a climate of panic and insecurity in society, that the public health system, that the state leaves the world uncovered health, that the world dies because of a criminal oligarchy of political leaders. I do not think that can be accepted as criticism. We are a European country. We're keeping the health standards. We are even taking care of foreigners in our country, migrants and refugees, with a high level of health care, and the ECDC and the American Infection Control Centre are attesting this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u127	On the result...(Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u128	Look, this is also the truth of this type of criticism, indeed, I think it is declining the level of political confrontation and I would ask you very much from now on to be much more careful about what we are saying and what we are using.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u129	Because I can't answer that question, I'm going to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u130	You're done, ladies and gentlemen. We move to the ninth under number 993-14-2016 second time question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKEKKEKKEKEKEKEKIKOKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKOKIKOKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKIKIKOKOKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOVOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOK Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes. You'll both keep in the last question a year exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u131	Madam President, if you want, we can not talk at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u132	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u133	The previous ones have indeed exceeded all the limits to your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u134	What can we do? It's over, Mr. Colleague, and Parliament's time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u135	They have exceeded - I repeat - all the limits, with your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u136	With my tolerance at all, but no one counts me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u137	All the lines! Mr Dr. Dritsas spoke seven minutes, and you didn't dare tell him a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u138	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u139	Mr Dritsa spoke seven minutes and you didn't dare tell him a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u140	Not seven minutes, four and a half. I've taken note of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u141	And all right, Mr. Dritsa, you can't just say a word. To the others?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u142	I'm telling everybody. I have no problem, as you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u143	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u144	And don't use that. It's not your honor, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u145	We ask and the ministers answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u146	I apply the Rules of Procedure. So you want Mr. Dritsa's time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u147	Renew my time and I don't want any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u148	All right, well, let's get this over with. It's eight o'clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u149	We, the ordinary parliamentarians, ask and the ministers answer. The ministers don't ask. This is the structural element of parliamentary control. I say this because I have been irritated by the Minister for the questions that are being asked. But this is not the case with parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u150	Do you make a general observation now? Get to the point, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u151	Give us every response the evidence supporting the answer, Minister. That's what I think. So I shall refer specifically to and want specific answers. In February, the Greek Parliament passed the provision authorizing the co-rapporteurs to create the framework, in order for uninsured people to have health care. Of course, new intervention was needed in March, because the remarks we made, as you well remember, at that time during the debate on the bill, were not heard. In any case, a joint ministerial decision was adopted in April, which provides for what categories they will have free medical treatment without having to pay 25%. For technical reasons, I assume that an extension has been made and, of course, has not been in place in an irregular manner through a circular, and a margin of up to 15 July has been given to prepare for the system and to provide it, free medical care for the poor insurers. What I want to make clear today is, firstly, whether the technical or other problems that exist to implement the law have finally been solved, and secondly, whether all those who have been called upon to pay for this money so far, even retroactively, deserve to be paid back. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u153	Mr Kegeroglu, what happened with Mr.4368 - we discussed it in the House at the time, not you personally, I mean the political body to which you belong, but other political forces of counter-population - in my view, it was a very large section. We have faced a deficit in our country's social protection system over the last few years when the population has been released and around two and a half million have been found - at some point the number has arrived at all three million - fellow citizens who did not have the right to medical treatment. Part of these people was treated with sensitivity from the public health system and a little informally, bypassing the letter of the law. There has been serious intervention by social doctors and other social solidarity organisations who have been active in the field of health and have been able to cope to some extent with this deficit. However, there was an institutional blockade, and this was overrun by Mr.4368. Now, at the moment, since the start of the law, thousands of uninsured people are served free of charge in public structures, hospitalized, operating, undergoing accurate treatment with innovative medicines, with expensive medicines, for very serious conditions. Because there is a question in your timely question concerning laboratory tests, there is an entirely clear answer. Nor will there be any provision for the patient to participate in the cost of laboratory tests. It is free of charge to public structures, as are the rest of the citizens insured. As far as medicines are concerned, you say that we are engaging in uninsured citizens and that we have promised them free drugs. We didn't promise free drugs to two and a half million uninsured. What we have said is that we are going to take care of two main categories: one is those people who were in a state of prostitution, that is, they had a booklet issued through the social services of the municipalities and who took their medicine from hospitals for free, without any participation. We said, therefore, that we streamline the system, reduce the suffering of these people, facilitate access to private drugs near their home place, and get rid of the hospitals an unnecessary amount of work, because this is really about non-medical patients. They were walking patients who had chronic illnesses, and yet they took their medication from the hospital. Moreover, one important element is that the public hospital medical expenses were borne at a cost that they did not provide, because they concerned non-medical medicine. We said, therefore, that these patients, this population will continue to take its medicines from private drugs, also without being charged, that is, without paying for it. We are in a situation where we are trying to solve this technically. There is a need for cooperation between the Secretariat-General of Information Systems, the GDR and the HICP, so that we can unify the information systems and with AMKA to identify immediately the category to which this particular population belongs and not to be charged by the referral no participation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u154	Minister, you'll tell the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u155	I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute. We gave a deadline of 15 July. The picture I have from the services is that we will be ready by then to implement this arrangement. I would also like to say that this arrangement was extended to the beneficiaries of L.4320 for the humanitarian crisis, which is about a hundred and fifty thousand families. We said that they too, together with those who were so far under welfare protection, will also have free medicine, at least those who did not belong to this regime. That is the regulation that we are promoting. For the remaining uninsured people, we have said that what we can do at this stage is to have the same status as the insured, that is to say, to pay normally, the EUR 1 per prescription, and of course the difference in insurance - retail price, to the extent that they do not choose a generic medicine. This is the intervention we have made, I think we will soon be ready to implement it and I think it is a relief for the daily lives of hundreds of thousands of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u157	Minister, we're on the seventeenth month of your government. We are neither the first nor the second nor the third. The problem of uninsured citizens, either because they have lost their insurance capacity due to debts to the funds or because they are not insured at all in the funds, is, is and will be long as the crisis lasts. What, in my view, you should have - and I have proposed - is that, on the basis of the authorisation already in force, the joint ministerial decision - which I myself had tried to issue and which was not co-signed by the Minister of Health, nor by Mr Georgiadis or Mr Vorides, so as not to be adopted - should be extended and facilitated, beyond the two hundred thousand who have a booklet of economically weak citizens. Because these two thousand - as you have said - had the opportunity. Therefore, the CSR could have been issued in February 2015. However, despite the fact that you brought in a year after the authorization, we voted for it. So don't tell us about a different attitude to our resignation. We voted for it and said that, although we did not need it, we voted for it so that there would be no doubt about it. Another thing he needed. You finally brought it in March what you needed, complete. In any case, today is the first time that you admit that those who have free medicine will be the ones who have a booklet, economically weak citizens and insurers, the same category, possibly some who are in the humanitarian crisis programme and do not belong to the most deprived, which is not the case. It is the poor, the economically weak, the ones who are part of the one program and the other, so a small number of them probably did not fall into this category. In any case, I don't want to compare to the old because it needed a reform. In any case, I had built, as you know, the plan of decision. What I am asking today is: Since February, even in the case of the law, those who belong to this category, for which there is absolutely no provision for medical treatment and who have paid 25% for medicines or medical examinations to the private or any other provision, will they be entitled to request them retroactively? Will these people be covered? And of course I would like you to tell us when you think the system will be ready. You said June 1st, you postponed, you took July 15th. Do you think it'll be final or will it take another time? Finally, there is a comparative figure: For two and a half million uninsured people, who say they are covered by this provision, 100 million is provided, as I recall. For the remaining seven and a half million, why do they need 2.7 million - so much the EEA budget - for the same provision? If you account for per person you will see that or 100 million are minimal to zero and do not reach or 2.7 million are arrogant and are squandered. What's going on? I believe that the 100 million, which you have predicted, is not for two and a half million uninsured, firstly because there are no two and a half million uninsured, is much less. However, even in the case of the smallest number, they do not cover the needs of 100 million. We must, in my view, increase the amount. And because it's not covered, that's why you're being prevented from applying. I am just thinking now, and I wonder why the system does not apply? Because, if it starts to apply, that is not enough than 100 million. He's got to put on more. He obviously doesn't have it and he tells you "the sooner he starts, the better". If there's anything else, tell us. If you retrospectively give the money back to the people who paid it, then I am wrong, because it is enough for 100 million and you did not intend to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u158	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u159	First of all, I would like to say that at the moment the query booklet is in force.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u160	For those who had already published it. Young people can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u161	So those who had a booklet, Mr. Kegeroglu, are entitled to, continue to take their medication free of charge from hospital pharmacy. When we move to the other regime, they'll continue to take it for free. For those who, at the moment, could join this arrangement and have not yet been prepared, there is obviously no possibility of retroactive return. For years they have not had that possibility. We will now give it to them once the system is ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u162	They could have published a booklet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u163	This regulation, in my view, could have been done since the crisis was created and ensured by the state, the state and the insurance system that people will not be found in uncovered health because they will lose their insurance. This has not been done and the problem has increased. At some point the previous president of the EEA had spoken of three hundred thousand uninsured citizens. The latest data from the funds, although there is no exact figure, is the truth, ranging between 2.2 to 2.5 million. This is the picture we have had up to now, and the substance is the following. A part of them, Mr Kegeroglu, when he had a serious and urgent health problem, was apparently hospitalized in the public hospital. The problem was, firstly, that there was the filter of the three-member committee, which had to pre-approve the hospitals, in order that hospitals would not approve precise hospitalizations for insurers and even for disciplinary proceedings for members of these committees. That is very clear in the order of the previous law. Also, a large part of these citizens were hospitalized and required by hospital administrations - by accounts and traffic offices - to sign a debt acceptance declaration and the hospital being transferred as a debt to the DU. That was the case, Mr. Kegeroglu. The debt of the citizens, who have actually had financial weakness, has been overcrowded because of the hospitality they have suffered for some time in the public health system. In this sense, there can be no comparison between this population. Another important element is that this population is basically productive ageing population. It's not about older people who are retired and usually have insurance. So this population does not make use of the services of the health system at the same frequency as the rest of the population. So I think that the figures are not comparable, so it does not cost per person alone. He didn't come out that way. It's an estimate. We have asked the EEAS to contribute to the budget coverage of this measure, of course together with the state budget. In any case, it is certain that the state budget will cover whatever hospitality, laboratory examination and treatment is needed, in the public health system, for people who have actually been unsafe to the risk of life, against a serious illness. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u164	When do you think it'll start?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u165	I think we made it clear that we could not give free medicines to the entire insecure population. We have chosen the most poorer part, the most economically weak of this population, and we ensure that it has free medicines. I know that intensive efforts are being made these days between the relevant departments. The assurance I have is that on 15 July the system will be able to operate without a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, by completing parliamentary control, I would like to say once again that this is a exercise of clarity and time. No one should complain, because that is what the Rules of Procedure say. He's putting on time exercises. Can you be clear and concise in the time set? Otherwise, complaints, protests, comparisons and all of this is for other people in spaces and not within the House. So, to explain and take responsibility for all. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-04-S1-commons.u167	With the agreement of the House at 20.24 p.m., the sitting for the next Wednesday, July 6, 2016, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
