ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour of announcing to the House the news sheet on Monday, 25 January 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 423/19-1-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the change of the existing legislative framework as regards the timing of judgement of Greek Police officials. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Has Kefalidou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the high charges of banks in all transactions using debt-credit cards. 3. The question under number 427/19-1-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the resumption for this year of additional teaching support and support in the schools of the country. 4. The question raised by Mr Theocharis Theocharis on the problems of the application of excise duty on wines under number 407/18-1-2016. 5. The Question No 410/18-1-2016 by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the reduction of the compensation prices of PV parks. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 424/19-1-2016 was raised by MP Corinth of New Democracy Mr Christou Dimas to the Minister of Health about the problems of the General Hospital of Corinth. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 401/18-1-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the high prices of fuels in our country when the price of oil internationally is low. 3. The question by No 428/19-1-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr Athanasios (Sakis) Vardalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the maintenance of the coastal turbulence in the estuaries of the Axis and French rivers in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. 4. The question asked by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health about the operation of the computing tomographer (PET - CT) at the University General Hospital of Ioannina. 5. The question by No. 402-18-1-2016 of MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna Karamanlis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the investigation of the causes of death of four-year-olds in a hospital in Heraklion. 6. The Question No 403/18-1-2016 by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Prussias Prussias to the Minister of Health, on the problem of the operation of the Dumos Hospital. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 386/12-1-2016 of the Member of Parliament, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the implementation of the 'clawback' and'rebate return' measures to the private providers of the EEA for the year 2014. 8. The Question No 399/15-1-2016 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the "population of Greeks in Chimara and Saints Saranta". 9. The Question No 404/18-1-2016 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the operation of the Agrinio and Messology Hospitals. 10. The Question No 412/18-1-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Everything) Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health, concerning the coverage of blank beds in the intensive care units of the ESS. 11. The question by No 385/12-1-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr Athanasios (Sakis) Vardalis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of workers in the "EUROMEDICA" Group. 12. Under number 394/13-1-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health about the living conditions of the abandoned newborns in the wing of the "Alexandra" Hospital. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy about the repeal of Article 11 of the draft law on "Tourist ships and other provisions". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1868/11-12-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the liquidation of "SPA PROMOTION". I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Primary School of Nea Philadelphia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We enter the first under number 421/19-1-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food on the schedule of repayment of the single payment of 2015 and the compensatory 2015 of farmers. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, despite your assurances a month and a half ago that Community aid to our farmers would normally be paid, many farmers were in the unpleasant surprise not to get one euro, either from the single payment of 2015 or from the balancing. You can understand that this phenomenon which I describe is a legend in the already growing phenomenon of the agricultural issue, which is now growing every day, an issue which one key aspect of it is the payment of timely and valid - to use a term of the current phrase - of Community aid when needed. We therefore see tails to associations, tails to OPEKEPE and attitudes to farmers, who do not even know whether these objections can be met on the return of the money they are entitled to. You can understand, therefore, that on the basis of your announcements that, after the payment of the single payment, the greening and repayment will follow, the one who has not received a single payment or a compensatory payment is wondering what will happen while he does not know whether he will prevent greening - the second phase - and redemption. So I would just like you to tell me what is going to happen with the fate of these objections, when the money will be paid to these farmers and, in any case, what is going to be done in order to get rid of all this anxiety, which our fellow citizens are suffering throughout Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u4	My dear colleague, as you know, and the farmers themselves, in December we blooded the region with a total of 2 billion liquidity: 1,7 billion was aid payments, which many were outstanding since 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013. If we add OGA allowances and ELGA payments, we exceed 2 billion. That's the reality. Now, of course, you know that 2015 was the first year of implementation of the new CAP. You realise that there were difficulties, because we are talking about seven hundred and twenty thousand rights that had to be settled. You are aware of this and I repeat: from the very few countries that have responded to payments and allocations of rights, it was us. I'm not going to go into details because I'm not allowed to have time. Because we are talking about new CAPs, there have indeed been problems which, in fact, will be dealt with through the objections procedure. We are talking about problems relating to the new regulation. For example, there were more than seventy thousand farmers in whose accounts, because they appeared to have payments under 250 euros, did not enter any money, because the regulation prohibits it. However, when we come to the second stage, the end-February - the beginning of March - which we will have the payment of the remaining 45% - is greening what is known - there, if the sums are added which in total exceed 250, all the money will be paid. And because there is at this moment a world, which runs de facto in a new CAP, in a new allocation, in problems, and that is where we are trying, through the objections, to deal with them. We have already made an extension - because the world is running - and we have to start a new six-year order. So there we said to give an extension, to go a little further back, to go back until February 1st. However, from the Step forward of the House, I am clear that any extension we give to the submission of the objections will certainly mean an extension of the payment period for those that will result from the next one. Nevertheless, we - I honestly admit this - are making a great effort to put the question of Community aid in particular. We all know that for the first time in the last four years, after Community control, our country has not paid a fine. We were told clearly 'you did well, go on', we saved the 320 million euros of fines we had every year. This result has been achieved by our operation and this must be taken seriously into account by farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr Davakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u6	Minister, we are not paying fines, but farmers are not paid, because, as you said, the seventeen hundred thousand beneficiaries were paid the five hundred sixty-four thousand. We have a hundred thousand farmers who are still waiting for the single payment and the balancing. On the other hand, you said - and that is correct - that anyone from 250 euros and below will object and we will see. You understand that it is so serious that all of this, which you have said to me, and I say to you, etc., have no, but absolutely no meaning, in the event that a man expects to meet his daily needs. And all the things that make up a vicious subsidy-sharing system - as far as the effectiveness of viciousness is concerned, I am not talking about some other kind of viciousness - you can see that they do not give a solution to the problem. You're telling me 'we're putting order on the payment of agricultural subsidies' when, for example, the OPEKEPE of Sparta has an employee. Don't do the story again, like many of your colleagues in the government and tell me "and last year and again, on your own government, it was an employee". Indeed, it was an employee, but we cannot really be shattered by lying left, right - I am not saying about you - when we have this one employee and two other contractors at the OPEKEPE of Sparta, and every Greek farmer or Greek farmer across the country cannot at last have the same phenomenon as all OPEKEPE offices in the country - to respond to his objection or to know when he will finally get the money, which he is entitled to. These are issues which concern all of us and I would say where you are creating a new perspective, in your view, in the growth of detention - with cleaners, I will say that again, with anything else - you hire another employee at the OPECE of every Sparta, of every capital of the Greek territory, so that we too can not accept complaints from our compatriots every day, from the Greek farmers, about OPEKEPE. There's full ignorance. I am not plundering or discerning for so many years that I have been in this Chamber for populism. There's full ignorance and complicated situations all over the system. In order to draw up the forms, these people, who may be in the field, the handkerchief, the left - to the right, certainly want a bureaucratic support, which does not exist in the Greek countryside. There are forms, situations, which definitely require contracts, engineers, overlappings, selectivity, that get them out of the system. Now came the other one: With "COLICARATE" many areas that were mountain or mountainous have become plains, with everything that implies for the payment of their subsidies. You realise that it is a grim reality, a bad situation that you are calling for, a year now, to resolve. I leave what is happening on the national roads, and so on, we know them. I fear that tax and insurance will also be a legend in your policy on agricultural development. I feel that, when you took on the position of the Minister for Rural Development, you had others in your mind and you are confronted with reality and what was said a year ago. A year ago, Mr President, we had elections, and I became a bad guy with my friends in Laconia, because we had taxed them 13%, and today we come to 23% and 26%, and no one has to say an answer, especially by the government. You have announced that there will be a joint ministerial decision to prevent new payments relating to the seizure of subsidies. It's a lot of people waiting for this decision, because you understand, when the other one is waiting to go to Piraeus Bank, to get what he is entitled to and finds them seized, what he has to say. I do not know what you say, Minister, but you have announced this and it would be a good thing if you had a clear answer if you were prepared to tell me. As far as matters relating to the forest maps relating to the payment of subsidies by OPEKEPE are concerned, they are related to areas outside the register, outside small areas, and these are related to payment - and I am glad that the Minister for the Environment is here - there must be a working effort to provide solutions, since you say - and I agree with your intentions, I have no objection - that a solution must be found to the issue of payment of subsidies. I am closing, asking you: When will the beneficiaries receive the single payment of 2015 and the 2015 authorisation that has remained out of payment? I would like a clear, simple answer, and I would like you to tell me what will be the timetable for the repayment of the single payment and the 2015 authorisation along with greening. I think, Minister, that many people expect clear and simple answers from all of us, especially from you who now have government responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u8	My dear colleague, and you, too, have a little - very much described the difficult situation in the rural area and, in fact, not differentiating from a situation of responsibility, which is largely the case for you. We will make moves, particularly in terms of making better use of existing staff, and if there are needs, as you have mentioned, we will see this on the way. But accept something, that the house started to enter, and the households had as a starting point what I said to you: there are no fines and, of course, there are no households that will not lead to charges like those that come from behind. I won't go into details. What I want to understand, however, is that we are working on what will happen next day, about what will happen with the Rural Development Programme that we have in our hands, what will be all about with the resources of 20 billion that we have to manage for the next five-year period. So that is where we really start, because for us 2016 will be a year of great initiatives. And in this effort we want to have our farmers and their institutions together, as we have on a daily basis in our work that we are alongside them with a double objective: firstly, the development of the agricultural sector and the guarantee of social cohesion in the region and, secondly, that 1 euro should not be lost from the resources available to us. At the moment farmers are being mobilised. I am, and I want to make it clear from the Step of the House by the politicians I have walked a lot of roadblocks over the last few years, I have visited many fronts. I know, therefore, that in many cases they are on the road and there will be some heaters who will raise the tone, and there will probably be excesses, such as the ones that took place in Komotini the day before yesterday. However, I would like to make it clear to the farmers that the implementation of the agreement that we signed with the partners is an agreement that was voted for by you, it was also voted for by all the parties of the so-called 'European arch' and this agreement, unfortunately - we have confessed, especially we contacted it, and on the eve of the elections throughout Greece - has an impact on a number of issues, such as insurance in particular. As far as the impact on taxation is concerned - because we will soon be talking about it - there are not those that are being disseminated. But these effects too are manageable consequences. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We have this job to do. And if we really do, what we say, move on to the country's productive reconstruction, that's where we'll respond to all of this. That is really the responsibility of all of us, and that is where the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development will be essential. We want to raise the pie in the rural area, we want the rural area to survive. That is why we will try to alleviate the consequences of the agreement that we have all agreed on in the near future.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u9	You did not answer my question now, Minister. You answered for the Komotini. It was two questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the next timely question, I would like to inform the House of the following: The seventh question under number 349/5-1-2016 of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Health, concerning the "private of Thrace Muslims in health notices of the Ministry of Health", will not be discussed. Also, the second question under number 420/19-1-2016 of the first-round question of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr. Doras Bakoyannis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the replacement of Directors-General at the Ministry of Finance, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance. The third, with number 408/18-1-2016, a top-stage question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseyas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the progress of the development of the development projects of the former airport of Greece, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth question under number 425/19-1-2016 of the First Cycle of the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of workers in the company "CONTTECH IMUS S.A." in the First Industrial Area (BIP) Volos, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The second question under number 412/18-1-2016 of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the coverage of the blank beds in the intensive care units of the HSY, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The third, with number 426/19-1-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the immediate reopening of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the re-entry of workers from WASTE SOLUTIONS, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth under No. 409/18-1-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Flashing of the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kolkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the need to maintain the PPC sub-region in Tyrnavos, Larissa, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifth under number 417/18-1-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the draft law on insurance that "as is essentially formulated leads to the exit of the combatant from the profession", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. Eighth No. 374/11-1-2016 topical question from the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manniatis to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the implementation of the provision of n. 4162/2013 on the establishment of the Generation Solidarity Fund (National Social Solidarity Account “ELKAG”), will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The first question under number 745/38/2-11-2015, and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr Kim Glen, as Prime Minister, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. We will now discuss the sixth question under number 411/18-1-2016 of the First Cycle of the Member of the Union of Centres Mr. Georgios Katsiantonis to the Minister of Finance on the abolition of the luxury tax and the payment of a luxury tax for the private use of luxury cars. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Tree Alexiadis, will answer. Mr. Katsiantoni, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known to all of us that the country is literally plagued by hypogenicity, with what this implies for our society. Multitexts are a group of populations which, on the one hand, contributes decisively to the maintenance of the structures of the Greek family and, on the other, strongly resists the people of crisis, giving the example of the rest of the family. However, you consider it right and appropriate for them to pay a luxury tax for their private cars. You could quite well see that, precisely because this group of citizens were unable to pay the tax in question, many of them were forced to deposit the signs of their vehicles, with a consequence, beyond their obvious family dysfunction, and to reduce the State's revenues in addition. Minister, what do you intend to do on this matter, namely abolishing the luxury tax, in relation to the payment of luxury tax by luxuries for their private cars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Katsiantoni. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, it is very important that we discuss this timely question in Parliament, and indeed tabled by a new Member, because it shows your sensitivity to this issue. Talking about the subject of fertility is very important as well as taking concrete measures. But, Mr President, we need to make things clear. Firstly, we have also answered another question in this House on 4 January on this issue by the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr Katsiki. We had given too much information on that question, which you can see from the Minutes of the House. We'll repeat it now. As far as the issue of luxuries tax is concerned, it is not something we are happy about. It is something that we are also trying to change within 2016 is in our top priorities, to lighten these categories of citizens, because we consider these taxes unfair and ineffective. As far as the rest of your question is concerned, we do not think it is right to say that it is 'accounted for in the government for its choice of this policy'. We have already explained many times that the government's tax policy, as well as many other issues, is not a question of government choice, but a matter of political necessity. We have explained both the reasons and the context in which we are forced to move. So we neither agree with what you say that it is our political choice, nor with what you say about resentment and so on. We believe that this does not help or help political dialogue, because we have made our position clear. To denounce us for the positions we have taken, but not for what we have to follow, such as the luxury tax on luxuries. As far as the issue of registration plates is concerned, I would like to say this: with interventions we made in 2015, at the end of the 2016 traffic year, we already have a significant reduction in the deposit of registration plates in relation to 2014 - in the time of succession, that is, if we compare similar things - as we have an increase in cars that took registration plates, precisely with a small-scale successful intervention with the co-responsible ministries, which will continue in 2016, so that the system becomes more proportionate, fairer, more effective. As far as criticism of these issues is concerned, however, I would like to point out something here which is also relevant to what has been said in the previous question and, in general, what is being heard at this time. The legislation that is in place at the moment and which, as the Ministry of Finance, we have to implement, is not legislation that has been passed since February 2015. It's legislation that existed before. The issue of registration plates is something that existed before. I am not addressing you - we say something to listen to it - but we are being criticised by some who have brought this House and voted for these barbaric, unfair and inefficient legislation - especially on taxation issues - and now they are moving our fingers and saying 'Why are seizures made on farmers' accounts?' Who brought this legislation to the House? Who has not freed farmers from these seizures? It's their legislation. We are committed that once the possibility has been given - and moves have already been made and others will be made - these issues will change. But it is political hypocrisy by those who brought HIS, commitments, seizures, now come and shake the finger to us. We have shown our policy mix, we have shown our political direction. All of these are things that will gradually change in 2016 and next years, based on the country's economic data. We don't plunder. We are seriously responding to our government tasks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Katsiantoni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u15	Thank you again, Mr President. We, Minister, do not realize that the former did not make huge mistakes. The biggest burden falls on them and not on you. You electionally gave both the Greek people and the tenants a huge hope that something positive for them would be done in the future. And I, as a young man, had hopes in the SYRIZA government that it would change some things. If you think that this is necessary evil, we as the Centro Association have quite equivalents that can be found to solve these problems. If you want, we do. I can testify to you some equivalents. Just ask us. We're open to testifying some of the equivalents to these people in particular, the multiples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Katsiantoni. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u17	Your Honor, I am pleased to hear your suggestion. I shall submit to the Minutes the relevant documents of the Ministry of Finance, in order to be more detailed about the issues you have raised. I am glad to hear your proposal for equivalents, whether they come from your own political space or from anywhere else in the House. It is very good for us to have political dialogue, to have political proposals and to agree or disagree on them. For example, we are hearing a huge criticism of the subject of the wine tax. The critics forget to say that the government was investigating the equivalents of the previous time in order to replace VAT in education. Some have criticised us for the tax on wine or for the tax on the OPAP, forgetting to say, with what VAT should have been replaced in education. Let a better equivalent come. That's not the case. We shall be happy to accept equivalents for them and for a number of other things. More generally, we will be happy to accept any political proposal. On the occasion of this brave position you have made, that you have a proposal for equivalents, I would like to stress something. The government accepts a terrible attack on information, but also a criticism, without those who make it a different political proposal. Because when you criticize someone, you have to formulate your different proposal. Some of those who are identical to the so-called " tie movements" or, anyway, with these fronts must understand that those who are now beating their backs and telling them "we are political" are actually preparing far worse and heavier measures than what the government is forced to take.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the sixth question under number 381-12/1/2016 of the Second Athens Parliamentary Assembly of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Harulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the Environmental Sensitization Park of "ANITIS TRITINI". The Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, will respond. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Minister, good morning. As we all know, the existence of large-scale green lungs within a densely populated city acts catalyticly in air quality, in people's quality of life and in general in dealing with the problems of air pollution within the general context and climate change that we all know about. Especially when it comes to a highly degraded area, such as West Athens, which is a consequence of the political decades that have followed and especially in recent years since 2010, with the monumental policies, the existence, operation, upgrading of this area of the Environmental Sensitisation Park is crucial not only for western Athens, but overall for Athens, because it is a park of over-local importance. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I will take it into my prototype in terms of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u20	Mrs. Kafantaris, you've got two minutes for your protology and your denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u21	It's gonna be the opposite. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u22	Now not to reverse the order and the Rules of Procedure. Finish in two minutes, there is tolerance from the Bureau. I don't think that's all you need. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u23	Okay, I'm sorry. What I mean to say is that this park, the largest environmental park in the Balkans, has a story from the a.m. 184 of 2002, which established the legal person of private law called the ‘Administrative Agency for Environmental Sensitivity of Antonis Tritsis’, and aimed precisely at environmental awareness, information, education of citizens. With the n. 4002 of 2011, the Park Management Agency and two other bodies, Eleaona and Kifissos, were abolished and created the Metropolitan Agency for Renewal and Management of Protected Attica Areas, which operates in the interests of the public interest. From there on, however, with v. 4296 of 2014 and with an amendment to an article that was made, the responsibilities of this single body - a metropolitan body - as regards the part "ANITON TRITIS" were transferred to the SAD, a Western Athens Development Association. From there on, however, after all these administrative changes that have come to the administrative stage, previous weaknesses have not been lifted, as far as the management of this park is concerned. This means that many problems are recorded, that there is no fixed administrative pattern, that there is no stable state funding, that there is no permanent staff, that there are problems in fence, that there is an imprisonment in the park, problems in water supply and electricity supply at times, that there are problems in supply and a very important problem, that has never been done since the establishment of this management park in the bodies responsible - if you like - for its operation. Our question, first and foremost, is how you see the existence of a park operator. For us, in fact, this body must include beyond local government, municipalities, regions, ASAs, the main ministries of Environment and Education, for example universities. like the Agricultural University, but of course the civil society and all the residents of the neighbouring municipalities must also be involved, because if there is something that is still in place and has not been completely destroyed by the indifference of years, it is the inhabitants and those who have fought it, supported it, and today they are calling for the upgrading of this park. So how do you see the moves to be made? In my dentistry, I'm also going to ask a few questions in connection with the financial part of the grant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u24	Mr Chironis has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the honourable Member for the question which really raises a hot issue. We need to tell the citizens to know that in 2011 the three operators of olive grove, kifissos and Tritsis park were merged, but, of course, the olive grove and kifissos did not have any revenue or material costs, they did not have any economic activity, while the Tritsi park did. It had shops that have a focus, were happening events, had an environmental information activity and certainly has nothing to do with the other two operators. Nor do the citizens know that since then, five years, illegally, as far as I know, the new vehicle was built with all four VDUs - and with all three old ones - and with the new one - and by the will and abusively as far as I know with my poor economic knowledge, it was working other activities with one VDUs, other activities with the other, which is illegal because the three VDUs had to close down, clear up and remain one, the only one. Also, this new administration has never opened books and evidence. I am surprised with my predecessors that all four years have never exercised a control that may have led to criminal offences. So we have received a situation with Mr Maniatis's law, which contains an incredible contradiction, grants the rights and obligations and the mobile and immovable values of the Tritsis Park to the West Attica Development Association without specifying what a body will be built and on the other hand does not grant the workers who are left on the empty shell of the old body that, as I said, has neither bills to pay nor revenue to pay. We therefore have an insanity: Tritsis Park Workers belong to another body and to the entire Tritsi Park, not to have as a Ministry any more any jurisdiction, but, in turn, the ASA does not have any resources or image. And the census, which we took in the spring of August - was received from my office - is a census testimonial. There is absolutely no evidence of what was going on in there, catering companies in there have no contract, they don't even have their own PPC watches, so they took from the main power organisation's clock, without having paid everything all these years, and I don't see anything in books and evidence of what's being paid and what's not paid. It's an absolute irrationality. You want my humble opinion? The SAD rightly in the summer did not receive anything, because we have nothing to deliver that is actually registered legally and safely. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I would like a moment, Mr President, to finish my sentence. Even when we tried to get the Treasury to pick up this old regime, even the Treasury does not accept something that is not strictly defined. Our idea, therefore, - and I close with it - is obviously to abolish this 'Maniatis law', which does not stand up and take away jurisdiction, to retain this old metropolitan body, and with the assistance of the Ministry of Finance, to make management checks on what it has and does not have, and to create a completely new body - will be discussed with the ASEAN who will be in it, whether it is just the self-government or the ministries, as you quite rightly said - who will not receive rights and obligations, because I fear that if he receives rights and obligations and the new body will be defeated in the corruption of the former.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u26	Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for your dentistry, but I would ask you not to exhaust the three-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u27	Yes, Mr. President. Minister, for us it is very important that what you mentioned in all other respects - and when I mean for us, and for the inhabitants of Western Athens and the neighbouring municipalities - that is to say, the question of the investigation and the financial audits and accounts in relation to the bodies responsible for the park to date, because, apart from other things, there are leases in the park, there are rents that are not known if they are paid, there are issues, as you mentioned before, and the electric lighting and all, as there are some fences which are not known how they were. I would also like to ask a further question. Because there were some announcements from your colleague, Minister before Christmas, about funds specifically to be made available and spoken about the Green Fund and the funds from the Green Fund, do you have any more to tell us about this? Because Mr Maniotis' amendment - because I remember that at the time I talked about the park in Parliament - was talking about a single sum from the Green Fund to deal with problems. How do we see it now? Is there any thought, for example, of a park's viability study without me implying - to avoid misunderstanding - privatising park functions? But the park has to find some ways, possibly, to make some revenue. Are there any other thoughts to you about what will happen, of course, by creating this body, as we call it, but also by pluralist participation, why have all these bodies, which I mentioned in my protology, contributed in their way to the time that this park exists? I'd like you to tell us something more than that. We also expect the inhabitants of western Athens to wait longer, because in the last five years too many and few things have been done. So I believe that at the moment we accept the need for this super-local high-green and environmental awareness body, which is the Tritsis Park, we must also give a particular weight. I appreciate that the Ministry's will exists, we wait to see the results. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u28	The Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr. Ioannis Tsironis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. To start with the important issue of resources. I shall submit to the Minutes and a letter from the President of the Green Fund. After all, it is also known by the law that the Green Fund is not entitled to cover such administrative costs of operators, it is not in its statute. You know, we have faced the serious problem with funding the temporary - I stress the 'temporary' - of the NATURA bodies, precisely because they are not in the framework, so we have made legislation. Nor can we, however, at the moment, start putting money into a structure either cut into two - three - park and the rest of the metropolitan - or united - if we abolish Mr Maniatis's law - because I fear that this new administration, if it enters into rights and obligations, will be lost to the tuition I have mentioned, the lack of leases, the lack of registered obligations and rights, and it is clear that it will be dealt with in enormous terms. In the Ministry's view - and we have tabled it to the ASEAN too - the only solution is to discuss the creation of a completely new body that will not assume any rights and obligations, because I fear that the rights will be minimal and the obligations will be enormous. It will start on a zero basis, it will take the workers, of course, with a humanitarian clause, to have the pre-service - not to play the game of irreversible capitalism, that I am changing a legal person and we all start from scratch, because these three workers have a pre-service, it is obvious - but from there on, with the assistance of the Ministry of Finance, that we will take the old body as public administration and that this necessary management will take place, but our alas if this old body continues to operate. That's actually gonna smack him. This is our solution, therefore, to start from scratch the new, new PPC clocks, OTE etc., new water supply, and from there to see, because I think there are also donors from the private sector who want to help. There are socially beneficial organisations and institutions that would like to help. There's the Ministry of Education in there doing events. Other private events could also be marvelous. Here we see in much smaller places marriages, baptisms, social events. Why not take place in such a wonderful place like this? There are festivals, wonderful festivals, and this thing could have a lot of resources. From there on, let us also see what other resources can be found from European funds. Or some other issues that can be covered by the Green Fund Statute, such as certain fixed facilities and maintenance, see if they can be covered by the Green Fund. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But I say again that it makes no sense to talk about the old because the old has such and so many serious problems, perhaps legal and criminal, that it will also swallow the new one if they continue to be linked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the first with number 419/19-1-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Athanasios Papadopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the course of the health map. In Mr Papadopoulos' timely question, the Minister for Health will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u31	Dear Minister, the valuable value of the health charter as a database for any strategic planning of the organization and development of health services in the country is a given one. Records statistics, epidemiological indicators, makes a record of patient movement, studying the organisation and quality of health services provided at all levels and we are valuable. Ten years ago, after the delegation of this work to the CEDEFOP and the ECHR, they were spent close to 6 million euros and yet still not delivered. The work is valuable. I think we need to look very specifically at how we can ultimately take advantage of it as a tool for reform that we want to do in health. To see the responsibilities that exist for the fact that it has not yet been delivered, but for speeding up the pace to have a health map, is a matter for which I think your answer will be useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. The Minister will answer. Mr. Blonde, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u33	Dear colleague, I think this is an important question. As you quite rightly said, the health map is a very critical tool and a recording of existing structures, but mainly the recording of health needs and a design tool. This tool has been missing from the Ministry's political leadership for years, despite the fact that it had been announced, despite the fact that money has been spent. It's indeed a critical shortage. Today, in order to pursue a serious health policy, well-designed, with priorities, with democratic planning of health services - this is a very crucial issue, because we know very well that there are limited material and human resources today in the country and to distribute them in a proper manner, in a fair way is the result of a good portrayal of the reality, priority and hierarchy of needs - in this area the health map is undoubtedly very critical. More generally, strategic information is needed today to enable the health system to be reliably governed. This tool provides this information. The process was frozen. You were right to say that it had been broken into two pieces, since 2009 assigned to the two bodies, namely the ERCF and the ERCF. The total cost was about 5.5m euros. The last attempt to complete the project took place in 2013. There are data up to 2012. Since then, there has been no update. What we have done since we took over this year was to set up a working party at the Ministry, which saw all the outstandingness of this work and gave us a very comprehensive conclusion on the whole route since the debate and the steps that have been taken. With its proposal, a standing management committee was set up, with representatives of the Ministry and the Ministry of Defence and the EEAS, and we made the political decision to assign the Agency's IT Directorate of Informatics to be responsible for updating and redesigning this health map. It is piloted these days and the commitment I have from the service and the people involved, is that at the beginning of February the application will be accessible to the general public. I think this is a positive development. The most important thing is that this will be done with own resources now. From now on, the aim is to try to interconnect this information system with the individual information systems of the EOF, the EOGY, the HICPIC, the EMCDDA, the EMCDDA, all the supervised bodies, which have excellent databases each, but not all of them together to provide us with the critical information. This is going to happen now. There is also the "BI" system of the Ministry of Health, which draws information from hospital information systems. And this is being upgraded at this time, and I think that this is how we are moving towards an improved electronic governance of the health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories it is attending the meeting, since they participated in the Educational Project "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and students and an attendant of the 4th Primary School of Korydalou. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Papadopoulos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u35	In an hour's time, the House will discuss a question concerning the course of the National Health System as a whole since its establishment to this day. And, of course, thirty-three years after the adoption of the founding law, the fact that there is not yet the health charter is an extremely important issue which concerns both the responsibilities and the measure of the needs that are needed in order at last to have the composition of all the data available to individual bodies. I too agree with the Minister's reply that there are data from too many bodies involved in the organisation, movement of health services, statistics. All this is functionally integrated into the health map. If real implementation takes place at the pace we want and with the assurances given today, I think we can be pleased by finally having the country's health map in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u37	Very brief labelling. Look, to be fair, we have to say that there have indeed been efforts in the past. It had been realised - I think - over time the need for this tool. But I have the feeling that there has not been the political will necessary to have this instrument. It was precisely because they had attempted intervention in the health system, hospital mergings, hospital connections, bed decommissioning, abolition of clinics and departments, changes in agencies, which did not arise through a study, a design, a display of needs and a need to reorganise the system, but which served a neoliberal cost-cutting plan and a shrinking of public care. So I think that is the political reason why there has been this delay. I believe that we now have no choice but to go now, precisely because the health system is at a very difficult time and on a daily basis workers, doctors and other staff are fighting it upright, but also because the political leadership is doing everything it can to strengthen it with resources and gradually fill its huge gaps. We need this tool to enable the interventions that we will make to be as effective as possible, more rational the distribution of human, material resources and to expect within 2016 in an upgraded functioning of the National Health System in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We enter the last and specifically the fifth under No. 413/18-1-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus, the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Health, on the Establishment of the Framework Convention of the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Tobacco Control. Mr Kammenos has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much. I will be abusing thirty seconds from the time of your kind President and your time, Minister, to state my personal disagreement and my personal veto in Mr. Siomple's statements last night in the face of the Prime Minister, who is the Prime Minister of all Greeks. My personal view is that at this particular conference the Prime Minister has offended all Greeks. And I would like to say to Mr Symble and say that it is not the application of the'mistakes' measures, as you said to the Greek Prime Minister, which we all honour, but are the mistresses of the Germans, Mr Symble, is the submarines, Mr Symbelle, and it is Siemens, Mr Symbelle, who is the 'VOLKSWAGEN' with the 50 billion fine that you will eat, Mr Shoeble, is Deutsche Bank, Mr Shoeble, which is the number one black economy in Europe, Mr Symble, that you have another EUR 400 billion black economy in Germany, Mr Shoeble, which is the underwater, that is what we are talking about. It's that you're the second country in the world, Mr. Shoeble, which you've been accused of and convicted of bribery after the United States of America. That's you, Mr. Shoeble. And the Greeks are proud and they have this Prime Minister and every Prime Minister, who fights for Greece's fairs. Minister, let's come to our question. This is the implementation of the Ministry of Health's protocol on the greatest epidemic in the world responsible for deaths and related to smoking. Questions must be clear, the data is also clear. All over the world, a hundred and seventy countries have signed the Protocol. There is an Interministerial Committee at your Ministry, which is working on the protocol. And here, along with the tobacco bill that we will soon bring, as we have agreed with Mr Alexiadis, but also with the responsibility of your Ministry, because thousands of lives are lost because of the use of illegal tobacco products, which are very bad for health, you can answer: What is the work of the Interministerial Committee? Why has the Protocol three years not yet been ratified by the Greek Parliament and not come to the vote? Finally, what measures do you intend to take to protect public health and eliminate the forms of illicit trade in tobacco products, including smuggling, illicit manufacture and manufacture of counterfeit products? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u40	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u41	My dear colleague, I think that you are indeed showing a significant stalemate regarding our country, which is the ratification and incorporation of this protocol into Greek law at the initiative of the World Health Organization to deal with the smuggling of tobacco products and the control of tobacco products in general. I think we do not need to talk, it is common place that smoking is a very important threat to public health internationally, it is a major social problem and its side effects are well known, it is bibliographically documented. Only in Europe is it estimated that about every year, half a million people lose their lives from smoking. There is a large number of diseases that have been documented in relation to this dependence, because it is a form of dependence and it is an addiction which is afflicting very large parts of the population. There have been attempts at containment at times. Obviously we need a combination of measures, actions, prevention and repression. There are inactions and there are resistances from people's attitudes, but many times also from the agencies and the administrative mechanism. We must now make a new restart, let me say, to limit, as far as possible, a behaviour which, at least in public areas and in enclosed areas, I think it is now unacceptable that the rights of our fellow people who choose not to smoke and are disturbed by the behaviour of the smokers should be violated. This is a timeless loose end. I think that there is a need for a greater level of maturity and the political system and society to have drastic interventions in this area in the next period. The crucial issue of the protocol now exists. Indeed, there was an Interministerial Committee, which was convened in 2014. Its last meeting took place in spring, March 2015. There's a finding. This finding has been consulted with the Ministry of Finance. There has been a delay in trying to have a commonly agreed proposal. The information I have at the moment from the Ministry of Finance is that on the basis of a draft law prepared by the Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Nicoludis, this project is now being updated by the Ministry of Finance and is about to take the form of a law sooner. So there the protocol will be incorporated in the form of an article and it will be ratified in this way. In this respect, I think we are dealing with this institutional reluctance. It is very important - and the World Health Organisation also emphasises this - that dealing with the illicit trade in tobacco products is not just an economic issue. It is estimated that this is currently about 25% of smuggled tobacco products and the State's loss of tax revenue is estimated to exceed EUR 700 million per year. You realise that this is a huge bleeding for the country's public revenues, especially this period, but at the same time the WHO points out that this reality also has a public health dimension, because it is well known and undeniable that these products are uncontrolled and certainly very low quality than the other products certified, etc. Apparently, there's also a whole system of paradoxes behind this system. So there will be in this bill and the provision of a coordinating mechanism to combat the smuggling of not only cigarettes but also fuels, for which it seems that the Secretariat-General of Information Systems will be responsible and will be under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance. There will be interventions concerning traceability of products, which is a very crucial issue, precisely to ensure that there is reliable monitoring and recording of the course of these products. There will be an update of the penalty system and there will be a corresponding interconnection and cooperation of the control mechanisms. So I think that to a large extent the procedure has been initiated. I believe that we will soon be able to go ahead with this and make a significant part of the transparent functioning of a system that has so far created serious problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Dimitris Kammenos has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much. Minister, it is important here to mention that the European Commission has put a fine, which has been paid, to the companies - it is public, and we can mention it - at 'PHILIP MORRIS', 'JAPAN INTERNATIONAL', 'BRITH AMERICAN TOBACCO' and 'TOBACCO' in 2010, amounting to $1.9 billion. This money went to a central fund and shared in the countries. I would like you to keep a note here, if our country has taken part of the fines of nearly $2 billion paid by industries in the European Union and had to go back to health systems and this fine has been imposed because they misled the consumer's advertising campaigns. Part of this money should have come to our health system as well, too, because it went to Greece at a central rate of $2 billion. Traceability is very important. The Greek State's revenue foregone is EUR 900 million. It is over EUR 700 million and we had seen it with Mr Marda before. I would like to say that another large and very important part of the insurance right now, when we are talking about insurance, is the health system and health care. In no way, at least, since we have the possibility - and you quite rightly said that we will sign the Protocol on Smuggling in Greece and other smugglers - to look at not burdening the health system with people who smoke these cigarettes, who - believe me, I say this because I have seen them abroad and here, there are studies and I do not know if they exist in Greece - are destroying health and burdening the health system. Let us not go to the economy which, as you rightly said, is very important. We should, however, see people's health, because when you buy in Exarches Square or in the center of Athens with a euro, a package that is of unprecedented quality, it is the only sure thing that you will destroy your health and have a lot of problems. At the same time, you will also harm your family and the health system that he treats you. I would like us to be very careful on this point and to be as brief, fair and clear as possible in writing this bill, to eliminate all these inequalities and risks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Cammene. Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u45	The remarks were useful. I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u47	We enter the agenda of the INQUIRY There will be debates No 12/8/9-12/2015 on the current question of the Members of the Party's parliamentary group The Potami and so on. Constantine Barriot, Georgios Amyras, Ilhan Ahmet, Spyridon Danell, Theochari, Spyridon Lykoudi, Catherine Markou, Georgios Mavrotas, Isona Fotila and Gregorios Psaryanos to the Ministers for Health and Finance, on the National Health System. Before giving the floor to the first honourable Member, Mr Mavrotas, I would like to make a brief brief statement about those who do not know - let me - the proceedings. The procedure is as follows: the debate on the respective question of the party's parliamentary group which has tabled the request from the five Members who have said that they will be placed. The first speaker has ten minutes and the rest of the five-minute speeches with a secondary right. The relevant Minister is then placed - in this case the Minister for Health - and the parliamentary representatives, starting with the parliamentary representative of the questioning party - of the Potamus, namely now - continue to do so, and then the rest of the parties. That's the process. That is why I have announced the first questioner, Mr Mavrotas, who is called at the Stepma for his first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u48	How long will it be, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u49	I said it twice. The first question will be the tenth question. The remaining questions of the parliamentary group that has tabled the question are five-minute speeches, with the right of seconds to the first five questions, as well as the parliamentary representative and the Minister. The rest of the parties Parliamentary Representatives have only a six-minute prototype right. They have no right to secondary. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall refer to one of the issues raised in the topical and urgent question, on the issue of primary health care. As in education, where problems start at the primary level of education, so in health, primary care is the first major patient and perhaps the most critical. The primary health care system should be governed by the rules for citizens' free choice, the efficient use of resources, the compensation of suppliers for the work produced, the insurance coverage for services which are proven necessary and effective, financial justice, so that the burden on users is proportional to income rather than analogous to the need. But let us come to Greece. One of the characteristic problems of the health system in our country is the strong hospitality of the system. Hospital care is 47% of the total health expenditure, compared with 31% of the OECD countries average. The cost of primary care is 20% of the total expenditure, compared with 31% of the OECD average. Moreover, according to the OECD, Greece with four visits per inhabitant shows the sixth lowest use of extra-subsidy care services. In particular, in recent years with the crisis, the restriction of the patient's available income has led to a shift of patients to public hospitals, an increase of 28% over the five years 2009 to 2013. The reform of the primary national health network, the PES, based on n. 4238/2014, did not deliver the expected results. It led to a complete deorganisation of public structures in urban centres and a substitution of primary care services by higher cost hospital services. A characteristic example: From 1-1-2015 the Health Centers ceased to belong to the hospitals, but the total lack of preparation has led to their collapse. In addition to covering medicines, which are still guaranteed by hospitals, there are essential shortages of materials that are not treated by the Health Regions. It is well known, moreover, that many health centres have been presenting and even presenting heating problems due to a weakness of supply of oil. Of the about five and a half thousand doctors who had former IKA and EEA Health Units - and now the country's PED units - there are less than two thousand five hundred serving. The lack of doctors of critical specialties from PEDY Units, such as children's, ophthalmists', and the collapse of workshops lead to a thorny and uncontrolled transfer of public resources to the private sector. At the heart of the primary health care problem is the family doctor. Although the institution is legally provided for in Article 5 of Law No 4238, the failure to adopt the ministerial decisions referred to in paragraph 7 of that Law, which determine the application of the measure, renders it inactive. I'm opening a parentheses here. Do we need firstly 'primary care' in the application of the laws? We find a problem, we vote for a law, and we think we're done. We are voting as a parliament, but the government must implement it, implement it. That's where the stuff sticks. To paraphrase former President of the United States of America and our Prime Minister, President Clinton, who said "is the economy, fool", for us "is the application, fool". We've been screwing this up someplace lately. I'm sure if I ask any of you, he'll have a similar topic to report. Shall I start at the smoking ban? A walk to the House - where we vote the laws, that is - is enough to convince us. Can I talk about sport? What about anti-violence and doping provisions that have been voted on and left on paper? Talk about education, which some people who did not like the legislative framework did not apply? To talk, finally, about ministers we've seen in here, from this Step, saying that we're going to vote for the law, but aren't we going to apply it? The application of laws is therefore a more general problem. The parentheses are closed. Let's go to another matter. Prevention, according to the declaration by Alma - At the World Health Organisation, belongs to the primary care. I would also like to hear a few things about prevention. For example, for the participation of the Ministry of Health in sport programmes, educational programmes and campaigns from young ages for nutrition - as we have, as we know, the highest rates of child obesity - for smoking, for sexual education and others. The healthy citizen of 2030, 2040 and 2050 is currently built in 2016. And Greece does not end once our four-year or two-year or our semester is over, but at some point the long-term in our country must win the short-term. Let us now go to some proposals for primary care, as is the result of modern literature. Increase the number of general doctors combined with an incentive framework, interdisciplinary. Physicians, nurses, psychologists, health visitors, physiotherapists and other specialties need to act as an interdisciplinary group. Networking with other health services. Full development of home care and care services. Overall framework for assessing the performance and quality of primary care services. It is also important to make full use of the new technologies. Primary health care is an area in which new technologies can make an essential contribution, such as electronic health card and telemedicine, especially in our country, with the great insularity and the many mountainous volumes, which make many regions difficult. Finally, public-private cooperation, in order to optimise the result for society, should have maximise the provision of services with a corresponding cost minimisation. In conclusion, primary health care is the key to improving the health system in Greece. That's well known. A lot of people have said it, so are we. And we don't have to rediscover the wheel, just roll it out, because it's full of shit. We therefore expect the relevant draft law to be deposited. If the Government is unable to do so directly, at least let it implement the provisions of Article 5 of the Treaty. 4238 for the family doctor, who is a key point in primary health care, making the relevant ministerial decisions. Tomorrow you'll wipe a candle off at your first birthday's cake as government! One year, SYRIZA. Sadly, however, he is a year lost for primary health care. But we are not here to say, as you have done as an opposition, 'not all'. But we cannot say 'yes' to nothing. There are no more delays. Move, bring things, suggest solutions to discuss the major health problems. Do not only perpetuate the imposition of your own status on the site, as we have seen recently. Health is a very serious case to leave it to party partners and friends. Meanwhile, the country, society, loses time, loses powers, loses morality. We no longer have the luxury of being prevented, for example, in the case of primary care, when the whole country is in intensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my brief position I will deal with e-prescription, the e-patient card and electronic supplies, that is, the single system that should be in place for supplies. Estonia should like to remind you that only in 2003, during the Greek Presidency, it was accepted within the European Union. With an electronic identity, with a card in Estonia, in this country of two million inhabitants, you do everything, you do your bank and tax transactions and you have full access to your medical file. You open a business in 15 minutes, wherever you are. As far as medicine is concerned, it is understood that if you are an Estonian and you go to your pharmacy or to a pharmacy outside the country - which is electronically connected via the Internet, with some platforms that the Estonians themselves have supported - you go with your card and receive the prescription for your medicine, which the doctor wrote to you when you visited him. Here in Greece, as you know, when you go to a doctor, he'll write you the medicines, print the recipe, and you with this recipe will either go to the pharmacy or the diagnostic center for medicines or tests. This is therefore neither electronic governance nor interconnection when we are still changing cards. However, the problem is not only the replacement of paper with an electronic paper. The problem is that two electronic platforms are involved in the prescribing process, the one of IDUs and the one of the EEAS. These platforms are not read, do not communicate. Thus, doctors who see the platform of HEDAL write the medicines for the examinations, while in the EPPY, to which the medicines and the examinations are charged, there is no control and communication, to see, that is, the EEAO that the examinations were done, the drugs were indeed purchased. If someone takes a drug to the recipe and a narrhos, that is to say the doctor writes to him that he has to place a splint, the patient will take one card to the HICP platform - where the medications will be written - and to the EEA, where the narrhos should be written. There are two companies behind these electronic platforms, two different systems, which afflict both the patient and health professionals and raise costs, of course, in total. The question, of course, is not just an economic one. If these two platforms were compatible with each other, doctors and diagnostic centres could also be checked. It would also be possible to exploit the aggregated data for the better pricing of closed integrated hospitals, but also at scientific level, a rationalised exploitation of research, as is done in many European countries. For example, a Greek student told me that the medical data base on which they were researching in London, where this Greek student is studying, was purchased by their own RHS - to say so - the British one, for ten or twenty thousand euros. If an electronic prescribing system, which does not require paper, seems utopian, then what about the patient's electronic file? Almost all European countries have an electronic file and records of each patient. At the moment, the EEA cannot communicate electronically - not to you with all - with most public hospitals, as most of them lack modern technological infrastructure or have electronic infrastructure that is incompatible with the platform of both EEA and other hospitals. In other words, another electronic system has the "Evangelism", another the "Imperialism", another the "Lacto". Then get interconnected in various areas and levels of these hospitals, for the care of the patient and for the better of doctors and nurses! All this is happening in the light of the issue of new identities in the summer, I remind you, as the government has announced. In these new identities, what will be included after all? What's the e-storey? If you are not ready from now, are there any provisions to open up electronic channels so that the new identity, which will be issued by June, can be connected to the electronic systems in the health sector when they are consolidated? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my second word, Mr President, and I shall be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u53	Keep going, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u54	Thank you. I shall now briefly refer to electronic procurement. The Ministry of Health itself has recognised that there are holes in the system and has announced a new supply system. Some questions, therefore, I would like to ask the Ministers responsible, so that we can make better use of them. The organisation and implementation of this new procurement system, which you have announced, has started and, if not, when do you plan to implement it? Secondly, what hospitals and health establishments have the e-patient system and when do you estimate that there is an electronic infrastructure in all hospitals? Whether this is feasible and what will be the cost, which will, perhaps, be too high, because of the incompatibility - as I have told you - of the different data units and storage of hospitals and health facilities under public control? Finally, is there a plan, to bring these two platforms into compatibility - IRD and EOPY - so that we can actually get to a true electronic prescribing system at some point without unnecessary paper? Ladies and gentlemen, let us imitate, if not the Estonians, the Greeks and especially the young Greeks, who, in their small part, either on the market or in their science, use electronic methods and electronic means to make their work easier, more competitive, if they are entrepreneurs, more deeply, if they are scientists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Fotillas has the floor, as we have a change and Mr. Fotillas is in the position of Mr. Lykoudi. Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my own intervention will focus on mental health reform. The announcements by SYRIZA - ANEL on psychiatric reform have remained, as in so many other areas, only in the thick words. Our country continues to occupy the latest positions in the integrated support of our mentally ill citizens, according to the latest elements of the magazine 'The ECONOMIST'. The environment of their lives, access to health services, opportunities for work and reintegration, but also combating the social position, are areas that do not look for a price in our country, ranking it in the last 20 countries of the European Union. However, it is not only the lack of funding and the resulting shortfall in structures and staff, but also the lack of a specific strategy, with measurable objectives, which are constantly being assessed. In addition, since 2008 - listen to it, ladies and gentlemen - we have to inform the European Commission as a country with concrete information on the mental situation of citizens, from depression and eating disorders to schizophrenia, with the necessary collaboration of ELSTAT with the 'SYCHARGO' programme, in order to draw useful conclusions on the mental health of our citizens. Minister, I would like to insist on the issue of decommissioning. While already in June 2015 we should have closed down all three psychiatric hospitals, the Daphne, the Drocaete and the Psychiatric Hospital of Thessaloniki - in the context of the review of the "PHYCHARGOS 2001-2020" programme for the decommissioning, but also the Memorandum of Cooperation Andor-Lyquorenjou -, they continue to function, because as a government you are obeying the wishes of your trade unionists. This is not how the necessary new care structures are being created, but also the transformation of existing care structures. For example, while by 2010 there should be eighty mental health centres throughout the country, today only forty. As a result of this, the tragic incidents that have occasionally been reported, such as the very recent death of the three-four-year-old food from "Dafni, who escaped and found a few hours later dead in the Haidari Forest, the attack to death a few months ago before a food to another, but also the fire in "Dafni", which resulted in the death of three nurses. You informed us in June 2015, Minister, at a question by our Member, Mr Barriot, that you are in the process of negotiating the Antor-Lykurenjou Memorandum of Cooperation. However, it seems that this negotiation will bring a worse deal, as, as we are told by leaks in the press, it is happening in secret. What else could we assume when we read that you are sending for this critical negotiation, not a knowledgeer of the subject, such as the Secretary-General of the Ministry, but a counsellor of the Minister? We ask you directly, Minister. Firstly, why does psychiatric reform not continue and the necessary closure of the three psychiatric hospitals? What action will you take to prevent the country from losing European funds to complete this reform? Secondly, is the leaks in the press that you are conducting secret negotiations, trying to hide your failed policy on psychiatric reform? What are the relevant discussions on? Is there any correspondence between the European Commission and the Ministry on this matter and you hide it from us? Thirdly, what is the specific number of decommissioning units? What remains and what is the timetable for their creation? Fourthly, will you proceed with the relevant procedures for recording the data on the mental health of citizens? Fifthly, the question is also an important one: the mental situation of the members of the rescue teams of the Port House and the related services in all the islands of the eastern Aegean, in which, it seems, you are of no importance. Do you intend to provide psychotherapeutic sessions for them to be able to cope with the extreme situations in which they come in contact every day? Before I finish, I would like to say a few words about my special homeland. The health service providers of Achaia, Minister, such as the University General Hospital of Patras in Rio, the Hospital of "Saint Andreas", the Hospital of Egypt, health centres and PENY, formerly IKA, the Achaia Prefecture, have been in a bad state, which can become dangerous to the health of the people of the region. The problems of subsistence to medical, nursing and administrative staff are huge. Suffice it to note that the Ryu Hospital has not been a surgeon with breast specialisation since the summer, while the citizens of Egypt have been unable to serve and resort to Patras due to shortages in personnel, special organs and ambulances. The inability to buy consumable reagents and other supplies reaches such a point that patients are asked to buy from the pharmacy materials for the changes in injuries. The inability to maintain the infrastructure and the shortcomings or poor maintenance of the necessary technological equipment are understood daily by all. As for the restoration work of the "Saint Andreas" Hospital since 2008, fortunately there have been local authorities, Minister, and the meaning of the term. Also, the ambiguities due to administrative gaps, after subdued to health care centres in health regions, make primary care problematic and a large number of patients are driven to the University Hospital in Rio. This results in hospital doctors, instead of only dealing with higher health care, doing the auditor’s work for testimonies and recordings in clinics, that is, there is the paradox that the controller is also the one controlled for the same records. Finally, for institutions that offer valuable assistance to SMEs, such as the "MERIMNA" institution in Patras, you have not even accepted to answer the timely question we have tabled. Minister, we do not want to hear just fine words and promises. We need concrete responses and timetables for the implementation of interventions to solve the acute problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Firela. The next speaker is Mr Spyridon Lykoudi. Here, Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, today's OECD figures show that between 2000 and 2009 Greece had increased health expenditure. He had most doctors per inhabitant from any other OECD country. In particular, in 2009 they represented 6.1 doctors per thousand inhabitants, almost twice as high as the OECD average. On the other hand, of course, there were only 3.3 nurses per thousand inhabitants in 2009, much less than the average - which is 8.4 in the OECD countries. This is because, if someone next to this information lists the low-quality health services provided to patients, it easily concludes that the problems were not mainly the result of the economic crisis, that is, the lack of resources and staff. The main reason for the health problems before, with the time-consuming reluctance of the previous governments to carry out a substantial reform, was because there was a policy of non-conflict with pressure groups and the interests of the health sector over years. Thus, the crisis has demonstrated chronic weaknesses and mistreats, which horizontal measures have only aggravated and thus the health sector has been at the centre of it. I'm sure you know this picture, Minister. It is estimated that over 15 000 workers left hospitals and health centres in five years, about 20% of staff, while no recruitment was carried out at the same time. The last recruits were made in 2009, i.e. six years ago. Two notices recently came out, 4K for two and twenty-six seats and 5K for six hundred ninety, i.e. about nine hundred seats. However, the Ministry does not specify when the procedure will be completed and on what criteria the allocation is made. Indicative of this confusion is the fact that in the 2016 budget the staff costs for hospitals remain unchanged at EUR 380 million. It is therefore a question of how the recruitments will be financed. The Ministry's actions so far show that there is virtually no planning and timetable. I insist that there is good faith in the report and good faith in the criticism. In April, the Prime Minister announced four and a half thousand recruitments. Later, the minister spoke of two thousand four hundred forty, and now only ninety - sixteen are proclaimed. At the same time, with the 12th amendment to the bill we discussed on grazing land, the Ministry, instead of definitive solutions, is extending the existing ancillary doctors' contracts. Auxiliary doctors are absolutely essential in the ESS, which collapses, and offer the maximum. There's no doubt about that. However, when will the ESS be blooded by extensions of contracts? Why is the Ministry following a practice which we have known in the previous governments and which the current government party was condemning at the time? Today, because of retirement, an increased number of people attending public hospitals against private hospitals, for the well-known reasons, because of a crisis, the increase in the number of uninsured people and, in particular, the unorthodox distribution of the situation in hospitals is hopeless. A characteristic example is in intensive care units, where 1/3 of beds are closed due to a lack of nurses, while the waiting list for intensive treatment exceeds 50 people a day. Minister, two and a half thousand appointments have been pending for the last four years, with the expenditure approved by the Troika and the Ministerial Council of the last four governments. Oddly no one publishes them. For the days of the Ministry of Administrative Reform, Mr Mitsotakis - you remember - the green light on recruitment in the health sector, despite the general prohibition of the troika, was guaranteed, very likely because they were - and are - recruitments that were improper through ADP. But these recruitments are still pending. On the other hand, today we see that five hundred recruitments to CEDEFOP, which are outside CEDEFOP, are being promoted as a priority in order to meet fixed needs. We could not oppose these recruitments - alas - but why is the government once again resorting to non-ACP solutions? "Despite the government's political will and despite the drafting of an emergency plan for the survival of the ESS, the reversal of its course of functional collapse was not possible in eight months," the Minister, in his reading of the government's programming statements in October 2015, indirectly admitting the tragic situation in which the ESS has arrived. After all, Mr Minister, in your confession the ESS is in danger of operating blackouts. What could be the solution, though? Is it a question of lack of money? I don't know. Probably not. Throwing money into a system that has structural problems can only perpetuate the problem. It's like someone's throwing money in a barrel without the bottom. We could move on to the well-known versions: reforming the country's health map, reordering the hospitals' map, organizing primary health care. Minister, you know, subsecution has led public hospitals to the limits of collapse. The image of an "infusion" in the emergency sections is now a rule. The shortages in nursing and medical staff have led to a failure of operation and closure of several intensive treatment units. The same frustration is the image in the islands, where empty positions of medical, nursing and paramedical staff have exceeded 50%, and, to meet needs, workers exceed themselves. There is also a tragic situation in the EAEC and you know it. Needs have increased. Over the past five years more than a hundred twenty rescuers have been retired. The integration of some six hundred hospital drivers into the EKA's workforce has not solved problems, as almost 40% of them have come to the pension, while at the same time the responsibilities of the centre, which now, apart from providing urgent pre-privileged care, have to carry blood, meals and others in some cases. On 27-11-2015, the Deputy Minister for Health committed himself to the Subcommittee on Island and Mountain Areas of the Special Permanent Committee of the Regions of the Parliament with promises of recruitment to Genarris and February. What exactly has happened or what happens? Minister, we believe that health distortions existed before the memorials and the plan against the policy of extreme austerity is not the defence of a waste, uncontrollable, corrupt and inefficient health system. Questions to the question are clear. Is the Prime Minister's announcement going to be implemented for four and a half thousand hirings in the health sector? There is an exact timeframe and what is that? How will they be financed, given that in the 2016 budget the staff costs for hospitals remain unchanged at EUR 380 million? And, finally, when will the recruitment of nine hundred and sixteen, under the two calls made in 2015? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, hospital pharmacy expenditure from 2009 to 2018 is projected to be reduced by almost 60%. More specifically, in 2009, hospital medical expenditure had reached the unprecedented amount of EUR 1,252,000, while in 2018 it is projected to reach only EUR 530,000,000. It should be noted that for the year that passed, in 2015, this expenditure was even smaller, just EUR 495,000. What is the conclusion of this? It could be said that we finally streamlined the hospital medical expenses and, through an overall and rationally structured system, we finally managed to ensure that Greek patients were adequacy of medicine and cheap and quality medicine. But is that so? 28% of the oncological patients do not have access to their medications, while many are forced to discontinue even scheduled chemotherapy treatments. Serious drug shortages are also seen by haemophiliacs, such as HIV patients, while hospital pharmacies are observed, as we all know, tails of affected patients. It should be noted that these findings were made during the 4th Congress of Patients, held a few months ago in Athens. These prove that in fact no serious drug planning has been available. On the contrary, under the creditors' pressure, we are subjected to rough and fragmentary ways of dealing with the problem by applying horizontal logic. The cornerstone of these logics is the notorious clawback, which we must of course follow. But how did we implement it and what was guaranteed by it? Did clawback discourage hospitals from exceeding their budget, which was to be done? Did you ensure the use of generics instead of accurate and prototype drugs, which have proved to have exploded the drug costs, without additional benefit to the patient and in unprecedented scandalous ways in relation to what was happening in the other Member States of Europe? Oh, no. On the contrary, the hospital is still able to use expensive medicines and prototypes instead of generic ones. Excess of the budget simply burdens the supplier through the clawback. It is sufficient to approve the overrun of the budget by the Minister concerned and suppliers bear the burden of overrun. Thus, efforts to control the use of expensive medicines and abuse as well as the objective of generic introduction are effectively invalidated. At the same time, you have charged suppliers without any discrimination, as no criteria or categories have been introduced, resulting, for example, in the consumption of antibiotics being equally burdened by the suppliers of chemo therapy or vice versa. Thus, there is a constant risk of shortages and withdrawal of medicines or artificial deficiencies, since there is already a reluctance to import expensive medicines because of the long-term debts of hospitals and the EEA. In one year the debts of the public, EEA and hospitals were doubled for the medicine to companies in the sector, which, with clawback, are in fact forced to cover 30% of the total public pharmaceutical expenditure, which is translated into EUR 800 million at EUR 2.5 billion gross expenditure. It's a substantial amount. In other words, you have created huge technical problems. In the same context of irrationalism and distortions, physiotherapy laboratories working with the EEAS are at a dead end leading to low quality service provision and financial suffocation. In fact, we're talking about individual businesses, small workshops, which have one, two, three employees and only one client, EOPY. Possible private clients are only unemployed, uninsured, who, on the one hand, cannot afford to pay and, on the other, force physico-therapists to accept the use of booklets from their relatives or not to cut proof to lower the price. The EEAY has a closed budget of 62 million euros for physiotherapy and implements the settings of the escalating return, the rebate and the automatic return, the clawback. If the rebate has a dose of fairness and redistribution of work volumes, the clawback instead turns in a direct and isotopeic way against those who have less work. All of this proves that no laboratory is viable in an honest manner. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a minute and a half, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u61	Go on, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u62	Thank you. Unfortunately, the above proves that in our country health policies remain established in pre-newary stages. There are intensive treatment units such as - I know you are concerned - with Heraklion, which has two closed beds in a total of eleven, which had to be available continuously, while eight to nine nurses in the department have long-term leave of pregnancy, maternity and sickness. The shifts that had to be carried out by twenty - eight people eventually only come out with seventeen - eighteen nursing personnel. In other words, this is an absolute absurdity. A health policy, and more specifically, a drug policy - to return to the medicine - in modern terms, it should be multi-level and not allow such distortions. A knowledge of this should be not only the interests of the patient and the defence of public health, but also the maintenance of jobs and, ultimately, the development of the Greek economy. Even today, it is not possible for the Greek patient to pay the same medicine much more expensive than the other Europeans pay. At the same time, the state should ensure that the pricing of medicinal products is fair and balanced, that they are sufficient and that - as far as possible - the survival and development of the domestic industry against international competition. Even earlier attempts at horizontal cuts as the only measure to limit the cost of medicines have led to shortcomings, to interruptions in the marketing of preparations, but unfortunately also to an increase in the volume of prescription medicines. In order to avoid such phenomena, time should, of course, be given to design an integrated policy to restructure the production, marketing and use of medicines, axes to prescribing protocols, to deal with multi-pharmaceuticals and artificial demand, to map the pharmaceutical expenditure and the preparations to which it is charged, to strengthen and inform patients, together with any reduction in prices, but also to ensure that the large multinationals and the domestic pharmaceutical industries are equally involved. Let us not forget that the Greek pharmaceutical industry, like any productive sector contributing to jobs and incomes in the country, deserves to be supported as much as ever. Access to a quality, safe and economical medicine for all citizens is the risk and requires from all of us serious and substantiated actions and proposals. We in the Potami, consider that there is no room for experimentation, which may lead to the deterioration of health services or to a further financial burden on patients. Time needs, of course, to be provided for an open and honest dialogue on pricing policy, in the interests of patients and, at the same time, of the national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr Dannelly, for completing the list of five honourable Members in the river. On behalf of the Government we will now give the Minister Blonde the floor. Minister, you have the right to protology twenty minutes, to dentology and to tritology. After consulting the Deputy Minister, Mr Polakis, as he has also been asked to speak on matters relating to his responsibilities, we are told that he will have the floor in the context of the denology or tritology of the Minister. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this topical question is a good initiative, as it enables all the sides of this House to discuss a very critical issue which concerns the society and the everyday life of people. I think that we do not disagree on the findings. The picture you present is essentially objective, because it reflects a real difficulty which is currently in the health system, a terrible burden and economic hardship which the citizens are suffering every day. Also, references to the timeless pathogens and distortions of the system are commonplace. I also think that there is a common place where priority has been given to areas that require structural changes and reforms, such as primary care. But let me say that I disagree with the central political point of question, which says, firstly, that there is no plan and, secondly, that we intend to manage the health system in the same way. I think that that is where political criticism is focused. First of all, I tell you, in a very good mood, that you have a problem with numbers. It really needs a very specialized knowledge to intervene and read out the budget figures. Mr Lykoudi's reference, which is reflected in the text of the question on new recruitment, is really not accurate. I have a document from the General Accounting Office of the State, which I will also give to the Minutes, which says that in the 2016 budget three thousand four hundred forty-eight (3,488) new recruitments have been provided for in the health system. The number you mentioned relates to the remuneration of ancillary and overtime staff of the other staff. The payment of workers to the health system with a permanent employment relationship is borne by the general government and not by the Ministry's budget. And you know that it's more than two billion dollars. It's a lot of money, and it's obviously not that high. I, with absolute openness, have talked too many times about the real difficulty that exists. I think that in 2015 it was a year when the system was insecure. The interventions which we have launched - and I shall mention in greater detail - have not yet created a considerably improved picture and the operation of hospitals, particularly primary care, but also, in general, the overall burden - on people in their relationship with the health system. But there is a very structured plan and I shall refer to it in detail. There is increased funding for 2016. And that's what we have to recognise in fact, so we can get together. It is the first year in 2015 that the course of continuous cuts in hospital operating costs was reversed. Operational expenditure was 1,388 billion. If this cost limit remained, the hospitals from October would not have been able to operate. There was a 'injection' of EUR 150 million, which allowed it with problems of course and with shortcomings and difficulties to reach the end of the year. And there is an extra EUR 150 million increase for 2016. It is the first time that we have a budget that reverses the continuing downward trend in public care funds. That is what I think is of great political significance. So the spending limit from 1,388 billion, which had been budgeted last year by the previous government, this year is 1,672 billion. It's 284 million more. The problem is, ladies and gentlemen, that this investment, which has been made with great effort and with priority needs from the government in these difficult circumstances, in an austerity environment and the implementation of a painful agreement, has ensured - and we have said so - in the budget area, that there is support for public health and the social state. This is the political footprint of the budget. There are EUR 823 million more in the social budget and, respectively, what I told you in the health sector. It is another expenditure limit and government funding for hospitals. The 1,026 billion you say was indeed in 2015, first of all this year it has become 1,156 billion. However, it is not only the state budget that finances hospitals. There is social security, which contributes, and there are also the same sources of income in hospitals - which are in the afternoon hospitals, which are the use of property, etc. - and the final financial - let us say - adequacy of the system. So, both with regard to the expenditure limit and with regard to the cash flow, that is, to the financial flow, there is an increased provision, as there is an increased prediction of the medicines, which were incomplete and have been problems, because we have changed and moved to a new regime from 1-1-2016 with a closed budget to public hospital medical expenditure and a clawback mechanism. In order to address the problem that can be created, in order to make a serious intervention from the area, which is obviously about the quality of care for the citizens, it is not enough to have a cutter, a ceiling on expenditure. Obviously, structural interventions in demand control are needed. Hospital protocols are needed as well as common management of expensive medicines, particularly oncological medicines. There are proposals from the hospital pharmacists - which we are discussing and which we are preparing to promote - which will make economies of scale in these medicines. Of course, there is also another system of supplies organised on another basis. I imagine that the Deputy Minister, Mr Paulakis, will refer to this because he is also his responsibility. Finally, another system of negotiation with the pharmaceutical industry is needed for high-cost medicines. These days we are setting up a negotiating committee - which was also a great length of time - which will be responsible for negotiating new innovative medicines in terms of sustainability for the health system and for the country's economy. And I now come to the issue of recruitment, which is even thorny, in the sense that gaps are huge. In recent years tens of thousands of people have left the health system. His accumulated gaps are estimated at over twenty - two, twenty - three thousand in doctors and other personnel. What we are implementing this year is a first "injection" of human resources, which totals about four and a half thousand, as was the Prime Minister's commitment. This is three thousand four hundred and forty-eight seats, as the budget says. There are two packages of notices, 4K and 5K, to which you refer. The ASAP in very short time - unprecedented for the data! - He's given us the provisional tables for this first piece. We will proceed quickly and speed up the appointment process. After this phase is completed, we will have the second package with two thousand four hundred forty places, in which there are six hundred doctors, while the rest is nursing and paramedical staff. In the face of the great need, this aid is obviously not entirely sufficient. However, it is not a drop in the ocean, as it is called very easily and mainly gives a strong political signal that, after six years of ignoring public sector recruitment, there is a constant loss of human resources, mainly because of retirement, but also because of the migration of medical staff, we have a process of strengthening permanent jobs in the health system. I believe that this is qualitatively different and shows precisely the political priority that this government attaches to this area. And now I come to what else has happened. We have five hundred positions through CEDEFOP for two-year contracts specifically targeted for SICs. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not want to perpetuate recruitment systems which have previously been accused - and I think it is right - of opacity and customer rationality, nor do we want to favour employment relationships that create precarious conditions for workers. However, it was the only option we had, to quickly fill the gaps that exist in intensive care units, especially after the withdrawal of two hundred thirty from the previous contract and to try to put more beds into operation, for which there is an increased need and because of the influenza virus. At the same time, an act of ministerial council, i.e. approval by the financial staff, has been adopted for another five hundred eighty-fifths of auxiliary staff other than doctors. A total of four and a half thousand posts. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] In this period, this ten-month period, the following very critical interventions have been implemented to strengthen the health system and ensure its well-being: Firstly, we have extended the stay of qualified doctors up to four semesters after they completed their specialty in the health system. This was a very critical intervention, because you know that today a huge gap has been created in covering the positions of residents throughout the country and especially in provincial hospitals. Secondly, we extended until 30 September the term of office of all subsidiary staff, which is currently working in hospitals - they are about a thousand people, five hundred doctors and five hundred nurses - and that is also very critical to maintaining this stability, the attempt to stabilise the system. We have also proceeded with speedy procedures in the last three months, in four hundred and seventy supplementary posts, assigned to them, have gone to public hospitals in the last three months, with difficulty of course. We've signed over six hundred assignments and only the four hundred seventy have accepted. We need to seriously discuss a grid of incentives and interventions, to stop this Brain drain and medical immigration abroad, by stepping up work relations and the presence of the specialist in the hospital, but above all by stepping up medical training and giving young doctors the signal that they can have reliable scientific training and that there is, in conjunction with the interventions which we promote, strengthening the system and that there is a decent professional perspective. We also promoted the appointment of about a hundred permanent doctors of the ESS from old crises pending in 2009, 2010 and 2011 - some of them have not accepted their appointment, because many years have passed and because they have been looking for jobs elsewhere - and these days are also the eighty and eighty-six rescuers of the EMCDDA, which has been pending this notice for three years. You call this a lack of a plan to strengthen public care? Do you call this a continuation of the political dissolution of the ESS? I think that common sense does not accept it. Of course, this procedure has not been completed. These people haven't worked yet, and the citizen hasn't seen upgraded services. And the workers in the system have still been pressurized, because wages have been pushed down for too many years anyway. Now, when it comes to saving resources, we have also made very important efforts. I can only tell you that from the change we made in the tender for blood serological control and the centralisation of this check in four major centres and not in the ninety-six blood donations that existed throughout the country, we have a benefit of EUR 19.8 million. This is immediately the equivalent for the five-euro, for which much was done and many Cassandras prophesied that it would come back because we signed the Memorandum. Only by the relocations of primary care structures and a band that we made in the buildings and rents that were being paid, we have earned 2.5 million euros in 2015. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. So there is a household and a plan there is, and above all there is a vision for another public health system. We have moved on to upgrade the operation of the current GNSS, which I fully agree is the great deficit today. It is the great challenge for the health system to reorganise focused on primary care. Over the past few days, we have made the ministerial decision on the "bundling" of the services. It's a first record and a strategic planning tool for this system. We are broadening the working hours with afternoon hours in the structures of the EMCDDA, which, of course, have the minimal staffing, which is necessary, to support this extended working hours. We are going to concentrate the laboratory tests - there are two excellent studies - on the 1st and 2nd RES, where we will make a huge economies of scale with central reference laboratories, which will carry out the entire range of examinations and a smaller range of examinations, which will be carried out in regional structures. So the patient, of course, will not be troubled, will receive his answer from the laboratory, to which he gave the blood, or did the other tests. We upgrade wages and similarize full-time and full-time doctors to your doctors. There is this in the bill, which I believe can be submitted next week, for the about three hundred full-time doctors, who have remained in the structures of the ETA, thereby giving the signal that they are not second-stage doctors, are doctors who all have to feel that they are doctors of the public health system and must have the same working and wage standards. Of course, we signed a contract between all the Ministrys of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the first time, between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the EEAS, thus recognising and facilitating the flow of public resources from the EEAS, social security resources, to public structures, which has never occurred and giving an important incentive to upgrade the provision of services and to improve the capacity of public structures to meet needs and medical monitoring and laboratory control. There are interventions in the refugee section. And there, for the first time, we have managed to get a specific allocation of EUR 3.3 million from a special European fund, with which we will hire a hundred forty people, doctors, nursing staff, EKA rescuers and other health professions to strengthen public structures on the islands, on the first reception areas of refugees and migrants. It is also a significant reinforcement of a system that has suffered a multiple burden in these months due to the large wave of refugees, etc. There has been an important intervention for the NSRF. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Allow me, Mr President, I will not be late. Maybe I'll have time in my dentistry to say more. These are interventions that fundamentally ensure the survival of the system and can, however, in 2016 deliver upgraded services. The big problem is the necessary structural changes and reforms. There, too, there's a plan. We have given a general outline for the development model of a new, modern primary health care network. I believe that by spring 2016 we will be able to have a legislative initiative on this - with pilot implementation in four - five major urban areas of the country since 2016 - the model that we have described, with decentralised structures, close to the citizen, close to his needs and daily life, with neighborhood doctors, which are interconnected with the civil-type health centres, which are based on family doctors, who are based on the cross-sectoral health team, who have a reasonable holistic care of the sick, engaging with all the range of health problems, from prevention, pre-symptom control, vaccination, monitoring of chronic suffering, prescribing, reference to the other levels of functioning of the system, treatment and rehabilitation. That is the continuum to which primary care must be developed, which is why the development of such a public primary care system is the response to the uncovered needs of people today - which is the huge problem - health poverty, namely, which has been established in the last five years in the country, and access to uninsured people in particular. It is therefore also the answer to universal coverage and evidence-based medical evidence and to the rational management of the human and material resources of the system. I think, therefore, that there is also a vision from all of this. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not think that the area of health is an area where there is free competition between the public and the private sectors. We are not interested in regulating the conditions of this competition in order to have entrepreneurship and profit. We believe that the area of health is an area for the real health needs of people, it is a area for the protection of rights and it is also a place for social redistribution, an area for priority in the policy of a left-wing government and to reduce inequality. That's what I think is the stigma. There is also a vision, there is a plan, there is a political will. Their first steps and financial support are guaranteed. What is needed from now on, I think, is a coup d'état of the most honest and reliable forces that the health system and the country has, to keep this sector up and for the citizens to have decent services.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. Before we proceed to the proceedings of the parliamentary representatives, I know you, ladies and gentlemen, that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", fifty one students and students and three teachers from Kryonerios Attica High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Barriots, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u66	Do you know something we don't know, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u67	No, to God, we didn't get there! I am a Parliamentary representative of the River in order to avoid misunderstandings. It is the days that are wicked, there is generally the known background. So we don't get confused. We have heard the Minister describe, among other things, a system that simply does not exist in any part of the world. This wealth, diversity without funding, without timetable, just doesn't exist! We'll see it along the way. I do not think the problem is a problem of political choice or implementation. It's probably mostly a problem of application. The government has recorded an absence of one year since the regulation of the health system. I will use a typical example of how problems are recycled and raised, it is that of health centres. It took seven months to pass an amendment which restored the flow of health care centres from hospitals some time last year, shortly before the referendum, which ended yesterday. There has been absolutely nothing in the meantime and the Farsalon Health Center - to say an example - has almost burned down, because there is no oil and the workers take the electric radiators from their home, so that they have a problem. This recycling of problems was typical over time and is still, unfortunately, typical of a health system that cannot be implemented primarily, does not know how to measure, does not want to measure, does not want to evaluate. The result is that no one now well - well does not know who owes where and to what, the dues have only escaped any reality, the hospitals are one without drugs, the other is without sheets, the third is without oil, usually without any of them and nothing really works. All that works is the workers in Burnout syndrome. They have now been exhausted by overworking and moral decommissioning and by the stress that this entails. The results are painful. My colleagues have said too much of the problems. Unfortunately, it takes days for recordings and findings only, which are necessary in order to be able to solve problems. The main thing, in a word, is that accessibility, especially the most poor people in the country, are constantly deteriorating to have access to a doctor and a medicine. The percentages are scary and are still getting worse. In "Saint Savva" for the oncology patients, waiting for tests and treatments is just out of reality for this disease and they are scary. There are no alternatives anymore. The Minister of Health, with great openness, with disarming honesty, in reading the government's programming statements in October 2015, stated that “in spite of political will and drafting a plan, the reversal of the course of the operational collapse of the ESS was not possible in the past eight months”. We didn't do anything by October! That means just Greek. In December, he continued to report on the Health System by saying, as he said today, "the hospitals are at risk of blackout". We all know they're in danger. Some have already gone into an obscure function, in blackout minutes, i.e. in an emergency and, they say, in a safe mode. As I said before, the government is practically not. We've had a lot of fireworks since the problem gets public. There is no antiretroviral "Lacto" solved in a week, no anti-haemophiliacs next week, resolved again. The main problem, which is practically an administrative problem and is not even a problem of economic insufficiency, is not solved and continues to be maintained. Mr. Paulakis or Mr. Xanthos will say that they have received a burned, damaged system. We've heard it many times. That's true. They received a system that traditionally did not function and consumed a lot of money disproportionately for what it produced from old. We remember it, I mean before 2009. There have been horizontal cuts with the dreadful method of "the system has fat to burn" and since it has fat we can make an amputation. Fat does not grow members. When you cut off without having counted, without knowing what's left over, the results are splendid. That's what I mean. He also received a lot of half the reforms, of which others were wrong, others were right and most were inevitable, since they were agreed with our lenders. Half, because to say things by their name, all or almost all of the ministers who went through the previous governments, whether they didn't or couldn't implement them. They usually happened both, by category. But, to also say things with their name, what happened is that they had against a lyric opposition, which under the leadership of SYRIZA and its trade unionists reacted almost to everything. I think - and correct me - that the only thing that did not react was e-prescription and that because it was probably too early and did not get ahead of time. In everything else there was a lyric reaction. Mr. Paulakis said that on the day the ministry took over, that's where he was playing wood. It is true that Mr. Paulakis has been in the Ministry's occupations along with other left-wing activists, such as Mr. Patoulis and Mr. Lourados for months, canceling any attempt to reform, good or bad - I said again - certainly inevitable. Then, as you know, a year ago just, SYRIZA was taken by categorisation - government activist. I became a Member of Parliament and have the privilege every time I ask anything, to receive the same answer above - under which we have also received today: 'The government will legislate on a new framework, bring the bill to Parliament,' which we have been waiting for for a year and we are not seeing it. An amendment came in twelve months. Or, rather, two. I'm saying it's because Sakis Papadopoulos looks at me weird, I'm sorry! It follows an irresponsible theory of what the system will look like, about how it should be, which, as I heard a comment from below, is “better healthy and rich, than poor and sick”, so transcendent, that you can't even ask when, how and with what. Timeline? Funny things. Cost? What's that? There isn't. There is only a statement of political will. I think I have never heard - and correct me - not only in this country, but nobody saying that his goal is to destroy the health system or exclude social groups from access to health. No one's ever said it. We all agree on the political will to extend the social state. In words at least. Meanwhile, the third memorandum came and the Ministry's political leadership along with the rest of the government was confused by its signature and vote in the need to implement the reforms for non-implementation that they were denying at the door of the Ministry of Health in previous years! In fact, this is in an environment of budgetary discipline and promising cuts that do not have a precedent. There were no specific financial frameworks that we have today two and three years ago. It's completely different. So we have this paradox: there are measures and half the reforms agreed by all of us. Reminding HAN, the perpetrator, who operates, has a board of directors and is paid but is in the shadow, the CENs - closed consolidated hospitals - the mergers that have been voted on and never taken place. It is a series of measures pending, nothing is done, we hear that a new health system will come different and we learn at the same time that the Ministry of Health does not communicate with the lenders and the troika for ideological reasons and good. That's what the papers say. But neither dares to clash. We hear that measures will be taken, which are contrary to what is agreed, but we do not see them. In a measure there is real consistency and obsession. One measure was the insistence on changing party administrations of new, equally party hospitals. For reasons of time, I shall not refer either to the inert Kurubli amendment and to the humiliation that followed its vote or anything else. I will just say that we have something new in relation to the previous governments, that for the first time the government's political leadership has assumed responsibility, and that all hospital administrations are beheaded practically and that hospitals are abandoned without administrations for months. I hope we don't have any consequences. The chaos, according to the information, is scary. If we have a flu epidemic simple - to beat wood - or anything else, we'll be in front of situations that no one would want to see. I hope it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u68	We have an epidemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u69	You know exactly what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u70	We don't have the chaos you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u71	And you say it today when the CEDEFOP document says that it no longer runs tests in Thessaloniki in northern Greece for flu in the patients who are treated in the ICUs. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u72	That's not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u73	I have the document, I'll submit it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u74	Don't be a liar of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u75	I have the document. It's another proof that no one knows what's going on anywhere. It's what I said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Barriotta, go on. Don't have an interactive conversation. Please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u77	I will continue by saying that maladministration is the birth of waste and corruption in the system. It's a common place. Little kids know that, too. And maladministration is the result of the party rule in this country. It was traditionally not yesterday. That's always the case. We are so great! We can, in the midst of a crisis, pay three governors at the same time: the two who are in the process of obtaining compensation through the courts and the one appointed by the current government to the position of the former! That's how we keep the third-world management, of course. We have a management that the last countries would envy in the list of development. "It can't be done anything substantial," a young, well-educated sub-administrator, who was released a few days ago after he passed the evaluation, "because the chiefs don't even understand the technical terms." That's how man told me, heartbroken by the fact that he couldn't even communicate about the basics of the administration with them above him, nor before or after the government change. The positions are political, Mr Paulakis says, and I have heard him say that many times. Only in Greece are the administrative posts of hospitals. It is not in any country of Europe - there the framework works strangely how -, it is not in Bangladesh, it is not in Thailand, but it is in Greece. They're all positions of skilled executives everywhere. This is where we've found another way. Here the service must be in decoupling and activism! You don't have to study. You may have a degree in floriculture. It's the only standard qualification that's necessary. All the others are judged, compared and taken into account. I will close with the example of Portugal, because it is characteristic. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that Portugal has come out of the memorandum. We came in together. You also know that it has reduced the cost of its national health system, as a percentage of GDP, to Greece's standards. It has, however, protected 70% of its population at the same time. Households for up to 1,250 euros don't pay drugs, they don't pay any attention to hospitals. From there, there are charges. So he came out of the Memorandum by increasing people's confidence in the national health system in the crisis. The percentages are 30% -40% improved, with regard to the percentage of people's confidence in the health system. What's the difference? That's where they talk and agree. They do not beat, destroy, level or oppose, for cheap, populist reasons, on self-evident grounds. They agree and apply them. How? They have a tool. They have one thing called a certified health system. For many years now, they have had a health manager and have also been making use of the help provided by Europe. There are Greek technocrats who worked in the Portuguese system. There are similar contacts between Portugal and Greece for its first grade system, for its computer platforms that worked, which were ragged and fell into the basket of unusable. There are people and proposals that have gone to the basket of useless people, such as the hundred points that have been agreed and adopted by Mr Baskozo. I mean the experts from the World Health Organization who left the Ministry. They left behind a supply of technocratics, which was thrown away. It's not true. He doesn't need us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u78	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u79	Let's see her. He's gone. Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u80	The Ministry's technical adviser is officially the WHO.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u81	Where are the findings? You didn't say anything. I know. Where are the findings?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Barriot, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u83	The information tells me everyone's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u84	You have the wrong information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u85	Minister, don't interrupt him to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u86	The deculturalization of the state machine is a Memorandumary cheque now. It's agreed. It is an example, in which Europe is pushing us forward, towards a normal European system, which operates despite political evasions, and so on. It is completely reactionary and old-fashioned the logic with which the appointments and choices of executives are made in the health system and is the great bomb on its foundations. If the administrative model does not change to a modern European model that measures, plans and acts, we are not going to see any decisive change in the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr Barriotta. I am aware that the parties have declared the following parliamentary representatives for today's topical question: In addition to Mr Barriotta from Potami, the ANEL Parliamentary Group will be represented by the party's parliamentary representative, Mr Papachristopoulos. SYRIZA will be represented by Mr. Papadopoulos. The New Democracy will be represented by Mr. Kelles. The People's Association - Golden Dawn will be represented by Mr Aivatidis. The PASOK Democrat Association - DIMAR will be represented by Mrs Christophilopoulou. The JRC will be represented by Mr. Lambroulis. The Centro Association will be represented by Mr Saridis. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the ten Potamian Members of Parliament about the course and perspective of the National Health System objectively gives a great opportunity to review the progress of the National Health System by thirty-three years after its establishment, but above all a creative discussion of the options, leading to its quality completion of the National Health System, at the close of December 1985. The description of the course that the honourable Members are doing, I think, has been satisfactory - and the Minister of Health has also called it - because it analyses in detail the dramatic situation of the national health system, the explosive deficiencies, the shortcomings in the functioning of the EEAS and the organisation of primary health care, the outdated management techniques of the health units, the timeless reluctance of the alternating governments of the New Democracy and PASOK to clash with pressure groups and interests, which have been secluded for years in the area of health. I believe that this criticism is due to the absence here of ministers who served the public health system, served the health sector in recent years. Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Lykourenzos, Mr. Vorides, Mr. Adonis Georgiadis is missing from here. But I think that in such a creative debate on the prospect of the public health system, we should have a dialogue as thoroughly as possible. I think that distortions such as those described by the question are the ones that led the Legal Council of State recently to give a unanimous opinion that it is illegal for university doctors in private hospitals and in businesses to function as doctors of the National Health System who abuse their function, to take part in the resource-sharing party, but also to do something that must be done in good time, such as establishing full and exclusive employment for military doctors. It also criticises the question of pathogens, corruption, the inability to move on to substantial mature reforms that were cancelled even when they were attempted. And I would remind you: Designs on Fridays of Avignis and Georges. A sum of seven wise men on your own behalf, Mr President, Mr Kremastinou, which has been ignored in the implementation of planned interventions in the public health system, in the EDPS on the Minister of Neighbourhood, two hundred new health measures under the Minister of Alekos Papadopoulos, the law, ladies and gentlemen, for the primary care of health in the Minister of Stephanie and even the establishment of fifty urban health centres under the Ministry of Miltiadis Evert. The Potamian MPs, although finding out the provocative social consequences of the absolute commitment to the objectives of the first memoranda, estimate that the distortions, the problems of the ESS, did not create them, but the general disastrous policy of the governments of the NCI - PASOK. They believe that the crisis has highlighted chronic underlying illnesses that the horizontal measures have simply exacerbated. I think that their criticism of the policy of the eleventh month, which the Minister for Health has answered so far, is unfair. It focuses on elements of the current image of the National Health System and the interventions made. The improvements, ladies and gentlemen, will become extremist, storming, when the legislative initiatives of the government go ahead with the parallel programme - country reconstruction, the considerable recruitment and promotional arrangements to be financed by the 2016 state budget, by the EEAS, by the new ESDP, by social security, unpaid debts to hospitals and related to universal health coverage of the population, support for the structures of the ESH and the ETA that break down, gradual upgrading of public health structures with the aim of a universal public health system that will provide everyone with free quality and effective services. The main pillars of the humanist intervention that we are planning on health are the universal organisation of the primary health system with structures in the neighbourhoods, which will be implemented gradually, and others which I will not today describe with respect for the time, the timely, equitable, effective access to services to tackle the sudden burden on health. This requires organising self-sufficient emergency departments in prefecture and higher hospitals, a on-call system at the units of the CEDO... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like two minutes to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u89	I'll give you a minute to be fair to everyone. Or I'll give everyone two.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u90	I'm making a request to give an overall picture. The destabilisation of mental patients, the integrated psychiatric reform, the treatment of the drug as a public good, the use in Greece of new immigrants, the new administration system of hospitals, health regions of the EHS, which will be more participatory with the presence of representatives of government, groups of chronicly suffering, social actors, and there will be a continuous evaluation of it, its certification and measurable targets - indicators, but mainly its contribution to the treatment of public good. There is a question of whether the full administrative autonomy of the ERC should be sought. The current administrations and sub-Global sub-governments, approved by the Committee on Social Affairs, are being reassessed. But, Mr President, we need a response to the administrative issue, which is topical today, as the administrations and subordinates of hospitals are judged after the completion of the time when the candidates are submitted, are assessed on the basis of clear non-party criteria, which take into account pre-service, education, doctoral, postgraduate studies relating to health services, their administration and their finances.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Paulakis laughs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u92	You're laughing. The final conclusion, however, of the evaluation, which will be done very soon, will demonstrate our conviction that the new administrations of hospitals will fully respond to their duties of managing properly, unbiasedly, fairly, completely incorruptible, to cooperate perfectly with the public health officials, to respect the rights of patients, to ensure adequate medicine, health material, and to fully organise the services, to compile computer files, computer files.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u93	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u94	In conclusion, I would like to conclude, which concerns both the representative of the New Democracy and the representative of the SYRIZA and, of course, the representative of the JRC, because yesterday in Larissa, the Regional Council of Thessaly made an important contribution to organising a special meeting on health care in Thessaly. I therefore think, because I have been here, that such initiatives should show the way for consultation, cooperation and co-existence, to which the Minister referred, on issues that will bring to fruition quality organised health services throughout the country, especially in the difficult areas. The needs of the islands, of Pelion, of the photographers, of Olympus, of what we do in Farsala with the oil to which he referred...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, we do not understand! Does Mr. Papadopoulos ask us for Larissa?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u96	... and how we make use of these findings to set up a Social Audit Committee that really controls the implementation of all the plans we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Kelles, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing the freezing in this room in the sensitive area of health, which is also a social asset, the Prime Minister of the country is in frozen Switzerland, he is taking part in the Davos Summit, at the World Economic Forum, where he participates all the walnuts of the world economy, who regulate money trafficking in the world. They are the same who drink the blood of the working people and with all of them our Prime Minister is comfortably confused. So he went there to explain his vision of a modern Europe, of another Europe, after he had succeeded in doing another Greece. None of this, though. What did we hear? For the big surprise, he says, for our country's economic miracle in 2016, which will be able to reach the global economic community. At the moment, however, the Prime Minister has only been able to surprise all Greeks with the ability to pass, not just to do nothing, but to dismantle everything in their path. A characteristic field of this incredible capacity is also the area of health. I heard the Minister, Mr. Xanthos, whom you know I appreciate very much. Minister, you are a government. We have heard a speech you are about to make, you will see, you will predict, you will suggest. You're a government, Minister. "We're on, we're on, we've seen." These are the words of a health minister who's in the government. What are you going to do? You used to say that when you were opposition. I'm going further. You said that you took care of as much as you could to support public health. What do you mean? That you're happy? Are you satisfied, Minister, with the health area in which you head? Are you happy with the situation? Because you're honest, I accept it. You're the same guy who said weeks ago that health is on a lasting blackout. Tell you what's going on in primary health care? Lacks of doctors, mostly specialists. Lab shortages. Laboratories do not work in primary health care at the PES, because there are no consumables. Operation with fewer doctors, those left by the ex-FOY. It was five and a half thousand, two and a half. Auxiliary doctors don't go. Nine hundred positions have been declared, ninety applications have been submitted. Physicians are unpaid in some DSOs. We've got three working relationship doctors in the PES. It's full-time and full-time. They are full-time, but they also have a doctorate this afternoon, because they have won insurance measures, and they are also a third category, which have won the insurance measures, have not joined the ESS, and yet have a contract with the EEA. Is there going to be a class in there, Minister? Not to say about the competition problems that exist in too many SGUs resulting in shortages of basic materials, graphics, etc. I will tell you that we have been listening to you for a year, you and your predecessor, Mr. Kurubli. Every two months he said he would bring a bill for primary health care. It's been a year, and we haven't seen a bill like that yet. Get the bill of the Ministry of Health of New Democracy, which has been passed and published in the Newspaper Sex of the Government on February 17, 2014, where in primary health care places the family doctor as the core of the system and apply it until you find your own plan. Why don't you do it? And what you have not said about this national primary health network! Decentralised health units in neighborhoods, urban-type health centres, rural-type health centres. Like the Thessaloniki program has become this bill for primary health care. Should we go to the NSA hospitals? What about the ESH hospitals? Health expenditure, ladies and gentlemen, in 2007 in Greece was 9.6% of GDP. The OECD was then 9% the average. Reductions in public health expenditure have become much faster than the fall in GDP. The ESS right now is an endless nursing home. Doctors are gone, state hospitals are decomposed, huge shortages of medical personnel. Six thousand doctors' seats empty. Even greater shortages in nursing staff, 15 thousand empty posts. We have been listening for two years to the opposition for the famous humanitarian crisis. Humanitarian crisis all your colleagues and you, Mr. Xanthi and Mr. Kurublis have said. This humanitarian crisis in 2014 financed hospitals in the New Democracy Government with a EUR 98 million grant per month, Minister. As Mr. Kourublis took over in February 2015, the state grant of hospitals went to 43 million euros, Minister. This is the cause of the state of the ERC. Nothing else. And instead, what did you do? Did you go to change the commanders?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u99	That evidence you say where you found it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u100	It's the official evidence, and I'll give it to you in private, Mr. Polakis. Not to tell you about government supplies. In the new Republic, the Procurement Committee had carried out a system to reduce the medical expenses of hospitals. Competitions worth EUR 93 million were opened for the rationalisation of the costs of medicine in hospitals and for the Minister of the Kurublis. Why? He never mentioned it. And the annulment of the tender does not bear the signature of the chairman of the Committee on Health Procurement. Why? That's what you're going to tell us. Let's go a little bit to medical expense. Pharmaceutical expenditure in 2009 was 1.25 billion. In 2015 it went to 507 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u101	In 2014, how old was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u102	In 2014 it was 700m euros. And the Minister came, Mr. Xanthos, with the bill he signed, the n. 4346/2015, on November 20th and you clawback at a closed pharmacy cost of 570 million euros for 2016, 550 million for 2017 and 530 million for 2018. At the same time, in the budget you brought yourself, you put EUR 700 million. Which one's gonna come up with?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u103	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u104	I'll listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Kelles, don't ask why you're causing answers and time is set. We've been through time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u106	In addition, the pharmaceutical cost of hospitals was not only that. It was another EUR 250 million, which you deprive of. People took the drugs from the EPPY Pharmacies. So we have a huge reduction in pharmaceutical expenditure. Tell me, the clawback why did you bring it? Did you bring it as an anti-institutor? It is not a stimulus to reduce the cost of medicine. The clawback, on the contrary, allows expensive drugs, originals, to be written in abstract terms by doctors. The administration will not be interested, because what is above it returns via clawback. The generics will decrease in hospitals. The insurance funds and the patients will be charged. There is a huge deregulation of the market, and we will also have withdrawals and shortages of drugs. And you came from above, Minister - and I had provided you with the support of the New Democracy and you know it privately - and you abolished the cap on generic drugs at EUR 7.8 and off patents that were at EUR 12 and within two years the price of these drugs goes to EUR 1. The 1 euro minus the clawback means 50 minutes. With 50 minutes retail price will the national Greek pharmaceutical industry, which you are supposed to be, but do we also want to support? Fifty thousand employees are there. We're sending them home? We're gonna put a padlock on them, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u107	Please finish, Mr. Kelles. You're talking eight minutes and we're going to nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, put the dentistry in it. Since the financial aspect of the pharmaceutical expenditure is guaranteed, what the Ministry must do is to ensure patient access, rationalise prescription, take structural measures to control consumption, and create added value to the national pharmaceutical industries. In this way, we have a shift in expenditure to expensive medicines, annihilation of the Greek pharmaceutical industry, a lock on twenty-nine Greek factories, fifty thousand people working there in unemployment, annihilation of cheap drugs, and, of course, the research and investment activities of these companies are suspended, without any financial benefit and without any added value. As far as hospital managers are concerned, fortunately the third memorandum has arrived, which you signed, which is about depoliticisation of public administration. You were raped to abolish the commanders from the hospitals. You let them go. What should one first be in seven - eight minutes for health? It's a huge chapter. Can I talk about the EKT? You are well aware of the situation in which the EMCDDA is located. The tender for the provision of the two hundred new ambulances is not yet complete. Most ambulances are real estate because of mechanical damage, because they have over a million miles and we still haven't come up with the new ones, which are financed by the NSRF.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Kelles, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u110	Sure. Can I talk about psychiatric reform? What can I say about psychiatric reform? All you understood about the psychiatric reform is the dismissal of the commander of the "Dromocaité" Hospital, because they didn't want him by the trade unionists and what happened there. Not to go to the tragic events that took place in Daphne, where we had the three hospital nurses who were burned. We will never exploit such tragic events as a new democracy. There is no way you can hear it from us, as we have not mentioned at all, and we have not made the slightest announcement about the other tragic event that happened in Crete with the little child. Stay away from us this exploitation. You've done it to the best in the past few years. We won't follow you. The tragic situation, however, in which the ESS is located, Mr. Minister, is seen here as the document sent by the Elassona Health Centre, in which, as of January 2016, the Hospital of Larissa stops supplying the oxygen health centers. I got it here. I'll give it to you to read it. I'm sure you're not an acquaintance. Mr. Papadopoulos may know. They don't supply oxygen! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In any case, what you have heard, ladies and gentlemen, reflects the health situation. This is unfortunately the situation. Hundreds of thousands of Greeks have been swept away from populism and lies with which the Prime Minister and his partner, the ANELs, intercepted the Greek people's vote. At the moment, however, the world is beginning to wake up. Society begins and is being activated, and this whole world has rushed to the polls and participated in the election of the Head of State, President of the New Democracy. So the election of Mr Mitsotakis as President through this process is the catalyst of all political movements, which began to develop horizontally in our political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u111	You're welcome, Mr. Kelles. I don't want to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u112	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. The New Democracy, with its past experiences and a clear orientation, begins to give hope to the world, which looks forward to a modern Western Europe. Gentlemen of the government, the days following are difficult, it is very difficult because you are now called upon to manage the consequences of your election deception.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Kelles, please stop. I don't want to interrupt you, but stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, ten seconds, I'm just finishing up. In Larissa, we're telling Larissa that the thief and the liar are happy in the first year. This time is only over yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too. I have to say, however, that, under the Rules of Procedure, only the parliamentary representative of the questioning party is entitled. All other Parliamentary Representatives shall not be entitled to secondary education in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We therefore make this known. We give more than six minutes, that's three minutes to everyone. Mr. Papadopoulos called first three minutes. So we need to stay there. Otherwise, we will not apply the Rules of Procedure, and I do not want to be arbitrary. Mr Aivatidis has the floor on behalf of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the introductory analysis of the timely question of the Potamian party actually includes all the problems facing public health today. Of course, they are problems known and dating. I am sure these problems were exacerbated by the memoranda. Potami is an excellent memorial party. And the question arises: Are they entitled to complain? I think not. All these phenomena have been overshadowed by the memorials. That's a full-blown enthusiasm. As far as the introductory text itself is concerned, I would like to stress that a major parameter that has a straightforward corrupting effect on the National Health System is enacted. This parameter is illegal immigration. About a million illegal immigrants entered our country in 2015 Since 2013, and also since 2014, there have been huge expenditures borne by the National Health System, for hospitals related to immigrants without legal documents. Fixedly and permanently, the hospitalized from various third world countries did not settle the financial debt to hospitals where they were hospitalized. This is a subject that further deepens the National Health System in crisis. As to how these costs can be dealt with, the Greek State could find a formula so that these debts can be settled by the embassies of the countries of origin of the people who are hospitalized or cured. Furthermore, there is another major issue, that of imported communicable diseases. Too many cases of malaria, resistant tuberculosis, as well as diseases that have disappeared from Europe, appear in it. In particular, a case of diphtheria has recently been reported in Denmark, while cases of bite fever have been reported in both Croatia and France. This open borders policy, which is the operative cause of the problem, must be stopped. Because of the memorials and the crisis, at the moment about two and a half million Greeks are basically uninsured, they are uninsured. So the government should aim to provide public health to the Greeks, because aiming at providing public health to people who have invaded Greece is not just a luxury, it is a crime. Another practice that the government could follow would be to try to exclude the health sector from the memorandum. It is extremely difficult and, unfortunately, we have seen it recently, in the failure to pass a relatively good draft law in favour of the citizen and his health. Golden Dawn is fighting for the National Health System to remain national and not to degenerate in the interests of business speculative interests nor to sacrifice itself on the altar of falsified excellence of humanism, which leads to the settlement of Europe by citizens of third world countries and to the supply of industries, particularly those who have heavy industry, with slaves. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, although I normally try not to raise the tone, I would like to support, Mr President, your attitude - which is the least unethical - and I think it is also contributory - not to answer the questions raised by the Members of the Golden Dawn, with the pretext - in front of me the answer you have given to one of the questions - that, in view of pending proceedings for the establishment of a criminal organisation, in which the majority of Members of the Golden Dawn are being investigated, we will abstain from responding to the questions put to us by the Members of the Golden Dawn for constitutional and parliamentary reasons. I think it is also unconstitutional and proving the parliamentary order. And the question I would like to ask you is: are you more or less democrats than the Minister of Justice for example, Mr Paradopoulos, who answers? I think you're turning around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, too. It is a matter, Mr Ministers, which, in my opinion, you must see, because in fact with the memorandum or the memoranda - as you wish, say it - the issue of health is afflicted. In 1994, with Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou, at European Union ministers level, I had raised the question of Greece being excluded from the Maastricht Treaty, as regards health and social welfare, on the grounds that we - and now I imagine the same and worse - had no money to make a proper social policy. Greece was then excluded from the Maastricht Treaty. Thus, all modern hospitals and pre-school institutions emerged, with Panagiotis Kourublis, who was then a secretary. I therefore have the impression that you too should put it in the form of Ministers, invoking the precedent of the exception to the Maastricht Treaty. Of course, the Prime Minister must put it at the level of Prime Ministers, that is to say that this story cannot continue and that health must come out of the country's obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u118	There is also the threat of fines for the weekend working week by the Community.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u119	That is what I say, that there is absolutely something to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u120	Work is precarious for patients, Minister. It's not a question of money. Patients are at risk from tired doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u121	Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we also believe that this initiative by the Potamius colleagues is an excellent opportunity to discuss the major issues relating to health policy and the National Health System. Mr President, I will try to make a criticism, as we see it, of what you have said. What I am not going to do, as I said yesterday, is to shout, to gloss, and, of course, outside Parliament, to do covetousness and violence, as your Deputy and other SYRIZA officials, unfortunately, have done, hug with the right-wing trade unionists, gentlemen. Pot and Lurado. They even attempted to build Mr. Loverdo in his office! It is therefore a good thing that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, even today, is calling for a consensus on health issues too late. There can be a consensus if there is dialogue and codecision, but a proper democratic review can be carried out and I think - as we are trying - that is just. Minister, you said yourself - and I would like to point out this - starting with your speech, that for a year the ESS has been unstable. You said that as a Minister of Health. You said it today. Why is she instability? If anyone follows your speech, they'll understand why. Because there was no plan. At the end of the speech, we heard a third of the 'will', 'will', that is, 'we will' do the other, 'we will bring' this. You're a year government. You said a lot in between. I would like to point out something, which you said, as a positive one - and in part, it is a good thing - that you have blooded over EUR 150 million in hospitals and their budgets. Didn't you say? Good. You said, in fact, that the cut - the cap - which exists in health expenditure cannot function, because the social security system also exists. Minister, if you're on board for the five-day, which is the'sex of figurative', why are you naked in health policy, let me tell you something? You have checked pensions through increased health contributions and are currently paying pensioners for their health. And I would like to ask you, Mr. Katrugalos and Mr. Tsakalotos, the resources from these health contributions, which have reduced pensions for pensioners and are going for health, has EEAY taken them? Good time, what's your plan, Minister? Honestly, what is the government's plan for the EEA, which was a major reform? It's not complete. I don't like to tidy up. It's populism to zero or beautify. But the EEA is a central intervention in the health and insurance system. What's your plan? Tell us. What are you going to do with APPY? Beyond the financial problem, how do you see the EEA linked to what you told us you were going to do at the primary level, which is 'was getting too much water'? However, you have told us about the implementation of a painful agreement. Where are the courageous negotiations? Here's the first thing you did, you got it back. And what was the first thing you did? You didn't do it, Mr. Kurublis, but there's all the time. So Mr Kurublis and the SYRIZA Government then the first thing he did was to abolish the provisions that we, for the term of office of the boards, and the evaluation committee. At the beginning of last year you abolished it. What did you do? You got it back, Minister. You voted for it! That's not negotiable. That's backwards. And what did you want to do? You wanted to decapitate, as you did, the administrations. You did it. Well done, then. They're headless hospitals. And you are going through an amendment to try to solve the problem, as - as, really like - as. In the same way, ladies and gentlemen, the explanatory statement to the amendment says the leadership itself: 'The hospitals cannot function, they cannot take decisions'. - I read - '...for any matter, whether it is a matter of everyday routines and this fact...' - you say in the explanatory statement - '... it poses serious risks to normal continuity'. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just hospitals with administrative paralysis, because it is not just sub-financing. Underfunding is a matter of several years and continues, despite the blood donation you say, because there are cuts, flaps and clawbacks. Yesterday we were talking, Minister, about the issues of antiretroviral and chemo therapy, and you told me that you would solve this for the whole year. I wish you'd solve it. However, we have pointed out the problem as a pretext. In addition, the Potamian colleagues - and I think I would like to praise them for this - have given great importance to electronic systems. What exactly are you going to tell us? We need two more words on how to develop e-prescription. Because at that time, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have voted against the great reform of the electronic prescription we have brought. You have then objected to this bill and did everything that could not be implemented. Today, in honor of you, Minister, you have changed. So what are you going to do with e-prescription? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I too would like your tolerance for two to three minutes. That system that we set up and still exists, the ESY net, which is an information and control system throughout the national health system, will you develop it? Have you left it on his luck? Also, what are you going to do with the new ESRB? At the moment, I will talk a little bit about our islands, which have a health problem. In too many regional operational programmes - and you must know, Minister - telemedicine systems were approved and operated. There's also hospital systems. This - and the Members of the river have told you - is not working. An Interoperability Association programme was planned for interoperability, i.e. to enable the system already paid through the ROP - let's say Crete, which is you or the southern Aegean - to be interconnected with the central hospital of Athens, to be able to operate with a special programme in the new ESRB. Are you going on with this? Are you going to carry on? Furthermore, two - three words to tell us on the subject of supplies, because there were unified global competitions for products and I want to know exactly what you are going to do. You said you'd change it. You don't want it? Change it. We had made an effort then serious. Also, at the Prices Observatory, which operates in EPA, we had achieved the posting of thousands of species at the most advantageous prices, with single codification - this system was a good start - according to international nomenclatures, general accounting and public accounting. The average price reduction achieved was about 30%. Today this Price Observatory, how informed is it? How much economic benefit have you calculated that it has brought about and will it bring about? Do you support it? Are you going to carry on? And finally, because there is indeed the influenza epidemic, and we have also had deaths, and we have had a problem with the intensive, it is the first time we have not seen an update on prevention... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I want your tolerance too. The other spoke much longer. Three minutes you said about everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u123	That's the third minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u124	All right, let me finish this last thought. Do you intend, is in your design the piece of prevention? And if so, should there not, as always, be an information campaign in the general population and specifically targeted at schools? What did you do about it? Is there a flu briefing campaign? This year I saw nothing. Why? I conclude by saying, Mr President, that I have not seen either in your proposals or even in the 'I will', a very big issue that we want to bring back and point it out to the government. I'll just say it in a minute, 'cause I don't have time. It is the issue of chronic illness, Minister, and you are due as a doctor and yourself to know that 75% of health expenditure in the national health systems of countries is one of the chronic diseases. Do we need a special way of organising primary care for chronic diseases and interconnection with central hospitals so that they can remove forces, resources and better deal with the chronic diseases, but also with them, more valid for dealing with these diseases, which too many of our fellow citizens, 40% of our citizens, based on statistics, are suffering from one of the chronic diseases? That is why we would expect some answers to this question in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Mr Lambroulis, on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. In advance, I ask for the tolerance, which I think you have already provided to everyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u127	As Vice President, are you asking her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u128	No, I'm not asking her as Vice President. I ask her as a representative of the Party I am speaking on this particular issue of health. I call for your tolerance, as you have shown, as I have said to the previous speakers, but you will also show it to the next speakers. As a Communist Party, we believe that the essential protection and promotion of public health and the fulfilment of the needs in this area is a key priority for us. Health assurance requires that political and economic choices should be aimed at satisfying all the modern needs of all workers and of the people in general. Promoting and protecting health in general and public health in particular, means ensuring safe and healthy working and living conditions, clean environment, adequacy and quality in foodstuffs, stable and permanent work, income satisfying modern needs, free time, high cultural level and others for all members of society. At the same time, it also presupposes the functioning of health services, whose task is to systematically assess and control risks to health, prevention, early diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of the people's health. Without these conditions, essential protection and promotion of individual and public health is ineffective and impracticable. But see what's going on. While productivity has increased, science and technology have jumped, and yet this possibility does not solve health problems. On the contrary, popular strata are becoming more and more difficult to benefit from this development and lack the provision of free and qualitatively upgraded health services. Developments themselves bear in the clearest way in the topicality the confrontation of the two development paths, the development path, which aims to satisfy the social needs or the current sacrifice of the people's needs on the altar of capitalist profit, in order to enhance the competitiveness and profitability of European monopolies. This strategic goal served over the past few years, with their anti-population policies, previous governments with a number of restructurings, which were designed in the European Union and were implemented before the crisis took place, which accelerated their implementation. On this basis and on this strategy, the current government joins, joins and follows. What's being promoted? The increasing reduction in the price of labour, with reductions in wages and pensions, but also through the reduction of non-wage costs, i.e. government and employers' spending on benefits and services with cuts in health, welfare and medicine, in order to ensure additional government support for monopolies and competitiveness. It also promotes the development of competitive and economically viable health systems in the context of the European Union Health Strategy 2014-2020, i.e. further strengthening of business action in the health sector. In addition, it promotes the deepening of the business character of state health establishments and the further commercialisation of their services. These guidelines are aimed, not only at tackling the capitalist crisis, but also at the stage of any recovery in the capitalist economy. Thus, the huge economic bleeding suffered by the people's families in order to have health care, as well as the absolute deterioration in public service terms and level of supply, is not a temporary but a permanent situation. This is why all the time and now all these measures - hell that have been taken for the health of our people, such as reductions in the state funding of public hospitals, health centres and EOPYY, increases in hospitals paying for insurance funds and patients, increases in the participation of those insured for examinations, medicines, treatments, health material, the introduction of a place where there was no simultaneous restriction of free public health benefits at the level of the minimum basic package, restriction or abolition of benefits, for example in delivery, mergers of state hospitals, departments, clinical and primary health establishments - IKA, EEAS etc. - as a result of the even greater deterioration of services. This deterioration is exacerbated by the fact that the continued subsidization of health establishments is intensified, with the result that parts are closed or under-operated, even for a simple prescribing process. Let us not talk about prevention too! The tragic and dangerous situation in the health hospitals and centres of the country, therefore, reveals that the propaganda of all previous governments, as well as the current 'household, waste limitation, rationalisation of expenditure', had a unique objective: the indictment of all people's rights and need for medical and social benefits. So it is "space" and "multiple" to have the pensioner, mother and child, doctors, laboratories, etc., in organized state units for free primary health care at home. It is considered a 'household', a lack of basic materials in public hospitals, a lack of basic skills in doctors and nurses. It is considered to be an ‘ rationalisation’ of the costs of the savage reduction of state expenditure on health and the increase of payments by patients, in order to operate the so-called public health services, i.e. hospitals, health centres and EEAS, in order to strengthen business activity and become sustainable, with a focus on closed budgets on the cost-benefit basis, i.e. as enterprises selling services to patients, whether through EEAS or through direct payments. So, at the same time, it is a waste for the state that epidemiological vigilance and the failure to systematically record. It is a waste for the welfare sector, since the restructuring that has taken place for years has led to the collapse of the structures of the past, which we do not say were sufficient, but even of those structures. Moreover, even the remaining institutions have literally come to the beggar in order to meet basic needs in clothing, food, etc. A flagrant example is the crucial issue of preventing the health of workers from occupational risk - a sacrifice on the altar of capitalist profit. As a result of this, there are incomplete and inexistent measures to protect the health and safety of workers at their workplace. Faced with this dangerously intensified situation of people's rights, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government highlights the realization of the minimum benefits and the minimum requirements of the populace. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Mr President, will we play with the bell now? I asked for your tolerance. Give me some time. What can we do? It's an important issue. I want to place myself. I hear it all the time, and I can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u129	As you know, once we have time, the bell automatically rings. Please - to God! - you have the honour of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u130	So the government is trying to convince that the policy of crumbs for the management of extreme poverty, but on the basis of the strategy that is closely followed within the European Union that is responsible for the present situation of the people, is the first step in the same direction as the strategy aimed at managing and integrating the reactions. Like previous governments, it focuses on individual and inadequate measures for a portion of extreme poverty, while maintaining a fish silhouette for millions of people's families, which are part of the category of poverty, from which a large proportion of state and insurance benefits have already been deducted. And, in this disorientational way, the confrontation with the other parties - the word 'pressure' to the government - also helps to do what? - to implement, speed up - if you want - the implementation of its anti-grassroots programme, the anti-grassroots policy, which is followed closely by any different proposals, but not by announcing the basic core of the direction that this policy should have. In a stubborn sense, however, of this governmental political propaganda, as well as of the Ministry of Health's communication tactics, the objective reality shows that the 'new, second' - as you want, say 'concern' left is a step in the same anti-popular direction. Thus, with the cuts in public expenditure, the people's family has been charged multiplely, increasing private health expenditure, for example, increased involvement in medicines and even those who have an income, but who are unable to cover it with the result of their hypothesis. In other words, they receive lower doses so that the medicine lasts longer. These contributions are also called upon to pay the uninsured, the unemployed who are trying to survive below the poverty line. This regulation by the government baptises it as a "private", it considers that it ensures equality of access to health services, while practically with its policy it continues to make it difficult for the insured to have, but much more so for uninsured medical care, while hospitals, health centers, multi-medical hospitals of the ECOFD are subordinated, even with the announcements we have heard. We have heard before, but also the previous period of recruitment, which will not cover the job losses of recent years, and much more the new pensions ahead of us. Similarly, nursing and paramedical staff, in addition to the huge shortages, are crippled by occupational diseases, the consequence of intensification of work and exhausting hours. Thus, instead of abolishing elastic working relationships, simulating contractors and recruiting permanent staff to meet the acute needs, the government is perpetuating the current situation, continues to take the same steps as the European Union's guidelines for extending the flexible forms of employment and replacing stable work with rights. All the above, together with the announcements so far, are revealing the way in which the new government intends to deal with the explosives in the state health sector. No commitment to be immediate - we have not heard that! - reopening of units which were merged or abolished at primary and secondary level, nor for direct mass recruitment - we say - permanent staff of all full-time and exclusive skills, which could give even one breath to the acute problems of patients and health! There is no talk of the government saying that it is not talking about abolishing flexible forms of work, subsidiarity and seasonality, respectively. At the same time, however, the Government supports so-called "social work" through social enterprises, using as a vehicle the replacement of cheap workers through the contracting workshops working in hospitals with other also cheap people through social work and social enterprises. In view of the above, the Government calls on the people to accept with patience sacrifices, to accept not to address the acute health problems in order to take development measures that will stimulate competitiveness. This common goal is to make every deal and every negotiation by the hand of an anti-popular, by breaking off wages, pensions, employment and insurance rights, health benefits so that workers become cheaper and capitalist businesses become more competitive and to increase their profitability. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing again and again.]] I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. The Communist Party stresses the need for workers to match their claims to their current needs. The only thing that awaits them from any form of management of the capitalist economic crisis is permanent impoverishment, undermining their health and life. For the people, a way out of the crisis means, with the struggle and the demands, social and political conditions, another path to developing production and economy, with the release of the European Union, with the working people at the centre, to satisfy the ever-enlarged people's needs, including people's health, welfare and medicine. Through this development path, all modern means and health care services can be used for universal and free provision of prevention, treatment, rehabilitation to all, without conditions and conditions, without payments, either directly or through insurance contributions. That is why what is needed - and we are calling on the people, workers, farmers and the self-employed - is a uniform, modern, exclusively state and free-of-the-art health system with centralized planning, fully and adequately financed by the State budget, with the abolition of all activities in the field of health and welfare. The development of a research, production, import and free supply of medicinal products by state units is required, respectively, in hospitals, health centres and the network of state pharmacys - and, of course, in the abolition of all business activities in the field of the medicine. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor on behalf of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know how many people in this room have worked over thirty-five years in a public hospital. In other places there may be too many, but in a public hospital I think they're few. Forgive me for a little inconsistency that I believe gives me the right to have even a certain opinion on health issues. For me, the public hospitals were my second home. I never had a private office, and I left a year ago. I could sit down a little bit longer. And I've lived from inside what some citizens feel in their pockets when they come to public hospitals and others - not all - theorize from outside. I want to remind you of two incidents that I can't forget. When Alekos Papadopoulos - revered to me, Minister for Health - dared to harm to the minimum the privileges of university doctors, he was unraveled within a week. I would also like to remind you that when an honest commander of the 'Evangelism' - 'Evangelism' - is the flagship of public hospitals and there I was working - he tried to do his job well, then the Minister of Health, with an amendment of looting, abolished it in a month's time. I do not believe that the situation in the health sector is being offered for tons of opposition. It's a timeless story, and I belong to those who along with Friday Agrino - and I think that's an honor - we dreamed about the National Health System at the time. And I lived for a step - step by step what happened in this area. I just want to remind you that exactly what happened in the health field is now called hard numbers. I believe that a large part of the crab and the party that took place in the country took place in the health field. There were cases where, clearly, there could be crimes before us and no one could speak. I mention this because some people are coming - I say again that I do not want to give a party character and it is not even worth saying things. First of all, my private initiative suits me. And as a party, in the Independent Greeks, our private initiative is being taken. I am tough, perhaps harder than the JRC on the issue of public health, which should be given free of charge to all citizens. I can't understand, i.e. if someone who doesn't have money while he needs an intensive care unit, doesn't have it, and someone who pays for it. I never understood that. The one on the one hand. I also believe that water or electricity cannot be privatised, are public goods. There I am with the JRC, but not in an extreme case. I belong to those who believe that public hospitals are a treasure that has slowly left him to be deceived and demolished. I hear today in a comfortable fashion that this government is also doing so somewhere there. But let's decide! No, on the one hand, to speak of state and, on the other, to say that it favours private interests. Because that's not even the way it is. I don't want to vomit anything. I just want to remind you of some bad texts. First, if an accidental night goes to a hospital's emergency, conditions are tertiary worlds, it reminds of a war zone. It's something they're trying to fix. Independent emergency departments from the rest of the hospital, where the suitcases go, etc. I'm telling you, I've lived through them, it's my second house. It is making a terrible effort to overcome this, and I think it will be overtaken. Secondly, two and a half thousand of our fellow citizens - I am sorry to say, it is a tough number - die every year because they do not find a bed in an intensive care unit. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Have I exceeded my time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u133	Go on, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u134	All the time you tell me I'll stop. It's something that needs to be corrected. I've been one of those screaming for years. Increase beds in intensive care units. For the first time, there is an honest effort, hard but honest. Thirdly, they must have public hospitals' incomes for what we were talking about before, for the emergency services, one who needs an intensive treatment unit. Finally, all private funds can incorporate in a public hospital, which has very good doctors, something that has happened between cheese and pears. I'm making it a suggestion to today's head of the Ministry of Health. EAEC, nursing staff. I'm one of those who's become bad guys. I have said that there are seventy-five thousand doctors in Greece. It's a big number. I saw it in the question that makes the river and he's right. Nursing staff minimal. We must balance this and, in fact, quickly. I mean the following. The issue of health is a very big one, and it is a pity that in this Chamber we are twenty-three and the couch. I think it is a matter that we should see at the moment collectively, that there is no controversy in a country - because many people forget it, I may be disliked - who have gone billions, nights. It is what is missing from the Greek economy and who is questioned should it be publicly supported. I am not saying that 600 billion has left, as the economists say, but that at night 200 billion has gone to accounts. I say this because I hear comfortable analyses, criticisms, where, how. Forgive me for an extremist expression, which has kneeled seven countries: 'Austria, idiot'. I steal this line from the editors' Newspaper. The Prime Minister did well and he was mild. You don't make schmucks at the top level, especially when you're a weak link and you're not due to your weak link. What health should Paul make with Blonde? What health? The health they've been plundering for years, where could I tell you one example after another? I mean, and I'll be done without taking any more time. In the face of this, if we really want to raise the level of the country, the level of Parliament, we have a sacred obligation on health. There's a doctor who doesn't have a doctor in Kolonaki to make seven parliamentary allowances. I work every Tuesday at the Greek Social Medicine, and I see, firsthand, what poverty, indestructible, intimidated. We have a sacred obligation for those in this Chamber to help these two people complete a project, not with a dry opposition, because health has something to do with all of us. Your wife, your child, some guy of yours, will get sick. I thought so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u135	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u136	All right, Mr. President. Well, you know I never have any papers in front of me and I never read cards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u137	We're already at nine minutes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u138	I know. Just give me a minute to say something. I've heard a lot about hospital commanders. I'll agree with you, everybody. I'm dreaming, too, that day that all over the state and not just in health will end the partisan rule. Come and help us all in the health field.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u139	Now he doesn't have a party rule?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u140	I shall say 'yes', Mr President, and we shall have to get rid of this. I don't deny what you're saying. But we must all help, because I see that too many are mourning and shedding crocodile tears for some governors. If some of them were good and left, they badly left. However, I am telling you that the criteria with which they were appointed have been those for decades. We all have to work together. Parliamentary democracy is being eaten by the party rule. Mr President, because I know you've been racing for over thirty, forty years, I'm telling you that I'm one of those people I don't want. We may disagree sometimes, but I know you're well-off. In conclusion, I would like to say that health 'will be a virtue and audacious'. I think that government needs to be helped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr. Saridis, will you or your President speak first?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u142	I shall speak first, Mr President, and then our President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u143	Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Loverdos, you can speak after President Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u146	I would like the floor on staff, in conjunction with Rule 135 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u147	Rule 135 states that if, during the debate on a question, a Member is also considered to be a member of the current or previous government, i.e. a former Minister, he is entitled to take the floor at the end of the debate for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u148	I am not in a hurry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u149	All right, Mr. Loverdo. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor. I would just like to ask you to limit time, so that your President can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u150	All right, Mr. President. I won't take you too long. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the essential thing with a timely question is that we are given the opportunity to put the Minister on this top of this topical question and to know in two, three, four months, within the same year what is essentially the plan of government work, so that we can judge whether it has been implemented or not. To be honest, Potami asked a good and serious question. I have said several times from this Step - and I will say one more - that we need to explain at some point what we are doing here, namely what we are legislating, what we are voting on, what we are signing. We have to tell those who are out there waiting for us from our work to get their lives better. These explanations may be given to them shortly before the elections. Then they will hear the explanations that we will give, evaluate them and judge us. If they judge us sufficient, they will let us continue and if they judge us insufficient, they will stop us and remove us. There are, however, people who will never be able to hear our explanations, because perhaps our actions, our choices, our signatures, our decisions here, will drive them away from Greece or away from Greece in general. The National Health System is a patient who has been in an intensive state for decades. Many doctors went by to heal him. The truth is they haven't healed him. National Health System, a field where numbers are above humans. The numbers have always been above people. The government is apologies to the right and the left. It's not her fault of what's happened to the ERC all these decades, it's her fault - it's that wing, it's her fault - she says - but it's not her fault! It's a morbid situation! Clearly it is because of this wing, clearly and possibly it is also her fault, and that is why she is where you are and you are where you are, because you have cultivated expectations, because you have been filled with hopes and because the people have put you there to give solutions. That's why the people put you there, and that's why they left those wings right where they are. Terrible shortages in human resources, in medicines, in auxiliary material, in morals. Thousands of flaws! Hospitals don't have any money, they only have approvals. You approve funds to the right and left. You don't give money. Pharmaceuticals can't get them. It's not the governors who can't take drugs. The Minister, I think, was back on 15 October and said: 'The development of a national primary health care network throughout the country, based on the decentralised neighbourhood health units, on civil and rural health centres, on the family doctor'. With what money? Where's the resources? First quarter of 2015: Forty-nine million grants to hospitals. Where are you going to get the money? Have you got any codes? Have you budgeted this budget to the next one? Where? It really is the efforts that all of the world of the ESS, doctors and nurses are doing. It is absolutely right that the POTAMI that emphasises that with clawback overdraft the budget does not work as a stimulus for hospitals. You are dealing with costs rather than with generic quality. Withdraw quality generics, due to cost, from the market. Many Greek pharmaceutical companies are withdrawn from the market. Insufficient is the Committee on Health Procurement, which forces hospitals to buy out-of-contract, because the competition is delayed. Remains inactive. 3492/2006 and internal control units have not been established to protect the interests of the Ministries, the financial interests of the Ministries. The institutional framework that exists there remains untapped. At some point, Minister, we must give the value of inspiration and human soul. At some point, we need to learn not to deny values because they are not our choices and they are one's choices. What's he going to say "they're someone else's choices"? What does it matter if the choices are someone else's choices, if these choices are worth being where they are worth? You guys are here, you said, 'cause you're not like the others. Or are you? You left the hospital headless. Without a framework of assessment, the Committee assessed. Really, so, what criteria are given to a human commander holding a patient's hand? On what criteria do you give a man commander who goes around Europe to find free drugs for uninsured people? On what criteria do you give the rating to a man who turns the family so that he can secure an ambulance in his hospital? On what criterion do you give the rating to a man who doesn't leave a patient outside of his hospital? How do you allow the value of people who actually implement your own policy to be reduced? Greece doesn't need you and them. Greece doesn't need you and us. Greece needs everyone together! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will finish by saying that in hospitals, human dignity is measured every day. The Centro Association does not negotiate it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the European Kilkis High School. The House welcomes you! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Leventis, President-in-Office of the Council, has the floor. Mr President, under the Rules of Procedure, you have eight minutes, but you can speak as much as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u152	That is enough and abundant, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lady in the House - of course we are discussing health today. The departure from the Chamber, Mr Papachristopoulos of ANELs, said that health is an issue on which we all had to help the ministers, because it concerns us all. So the other issues are issues on which we can fight, and only in the health field can we agree? Education, foreign policy and defence are not issues that Mr Papachristopoulos considers to be serious and which he considers to be a serious issue only in health? I think we should all put a back on a government, as long as the government is serious. And I'll tell you why I'm telling you. Because Mr. Pappas came out yesterday and said that four channels of the whole world would be licensed. The channels that already operate are eight. I said to ask what is going on and I was told that one is entitled to Vardinoyannis, one Sunday, one Turk and one Angelopoulou. So, from the existing channels, they're gonna close six. Is that how the channels close? With a minister who puts a signature? Is it as simple as changing shirts to close channels that work thirty years? The answer they gave me was "paying, entering rules to pay". But with this law, what Mr Pappas has done will give 8 million and some of them owe 600 million, while others owe 800 million. In other words, it will take the state - it will not take the state, because it will be in pounds, but at any rate accepting that it will get it - 8 million for the permit and save each of them 300 million, 600 million and 800 million. That's what's going on! Why will the companies close down and join new companies, who will pay the old debts, the 800 million, for example? I don't understand those things! Would you like to give that as well? Can we give a consensus on the closure...?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u153	Why do you consider that data to be what you hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u154	Because whatever the Minister says, I think it's a serious matter. Unless every minister here is experimenting and joking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Papadopoulos, please don't interrupt. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u156	I consider the government to be serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u157	It is!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u158	Unless she says otherwise alone! As far as the issue of health is concerned, I'll tell you something that the apologised Gennamas did and I told him when he was alive. He had opened up some external medical facilities - health centers, as he said - across the country. So one day when I was in his office, he says to me, "Look at what difficulty we get. While we did the health centers - three hundred sixty I think he said to me - the doctors do not accept to go and want all Athens." Doctors won't accept going to work. So man - and imagine that Gennamata was a pretty good man and was not the last of the House - first made health centers and then found that the ministers are not willing to go. And they stayed, didn't work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u159	The doctors, not the ministers. The doctors!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u160	The doctors didn't want to go. All right, at the inauguration, the ministers are going to collect the record. Understand? At one time, in the Municipality of Athens, I said that here in Syntagma Square some billions had been spent to overthrow the square. Then there comes a mayor - I don't remember what he's called, but he succeeded Evert - who breaks down everything that Everett had done and made available 2 billion more to do another Constitution Square. And because I told the Canal that this was a crime - of the Mayors themselves, one to give 2 billion to build and the other to tear down to rebuild - had been sad and visited. He had written a book to explain why he broke up. I've never seen a man write a book to explain why he rebuild the Constitutional Square. In this place, i.e. there is no design. I'll tell you one more thing. Once, Cyprian Biris - many of you might not know him - was a Rector at the Polytechnic, Minister of State, and had taken over State Secretary for Public Works with responsibility for town planning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u161	First government in 1974.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u162	Yes, on the National Government. There was therefore a debate within the House. He was a New Democracy as a collaborator, he was not right, but, in any case, he was staying next to Alekos Karamanlis the house in Rafina, and so they had met and put him as Minister. They had their homes next door. Karamanlis, when he came, told him "the settlements I want to assign them to you, Mr. Rectanis" - obviously the same Chamber is, it hasn't changed centuries since - and Karamanlis, the Prime Minister, then, who had appointed Biris and described Karamanlis as "we built Athens, when I came down from Serres Athens was a dump, mountains, unstoppable" and so forth, "Athens was built with a plan, with a rmotomy" and so forth. And it was not possible for Biris - if he had been appointed Minister, he fired him after a few days of this incident I am telling you, I have the Minutes of the House - and he said: "So, as we built Athens, without infrastructure, we paid it two and a half times, once we had to pay it another one and a half to correct and claw." Karamanlis took it very hard, didn't pick it up - because people who don't have bravery don't have the power to understand their mistake - and fired him, he cared for him. I fear that these tactics are being followed by the Ministry of Health too. One's building, the other one's dismantling. Diamantopoulou came to the Ministry of Education, you've given up everything, you've done something else. You chase the other one. The next one will come. Do you understand why I ask the Ecumenical Government? Because we're being ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Mr President, but I have to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u164	Did I spend the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u165	No, you did fine. Mr Pappas told the Conference of Presidents that the channels to be licensed will be eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u166	He said outside 'four'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u167	It's gonna be four nationals, and four will go...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u168	He talked about eight, though. I personally did not vote for the proposal to set up the Broadcasting Council, because I said, why did I not have nine or not seven? That is to say, first of all, that the criteria should be set.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u169	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u170	That was one of the reasons why I, at least, was placed, in addition to what Mr Loverdes said, to vote against the proposal. That there must be criteria common to everyone, to ensure quality television and not to be limited to numbers, that is, to say, eight, seven, six, nine and others. I think that is a key reason, Mr President, quality, that is, television, because that is what everyone is asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u171	Quality, but not to carat from the eight six channels to serve the "friends".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u172	No, there should be conditions common to everyone. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, I did not intend to take part in this debate. It's the exercise of parliamentary control. I'm waiting for the first draft law from the Ministry of Health. As a parliamentary representative, I will express the views of the Democratic Alliance and my own. However, I was very disturbed when I heard the majority parliamentary representative, Mr Papadopoulos, saying that no previous Minister was colluded. I am very sorry for this finding that in 2016 the colleague and known as the student movement said these words here. Mr President, in conjunction with Rule 135 of the Rules of Procedure, as a former Minister, I have the right to speak on matters relating to me as well on matters of staff, civil servants, to be honest. I would like to make a few points. They're not about the Ministry. The Ministry has a year. It's a SYRIZA Department for a year, and it's time to see you. A year and a half we stayed at the Ministry of Health and made a record of conflicts, underlining SYRIZA's attitude. We've made the EPPY collide with everyone. When the government changed - in this Chamber in June - Mr Salmas and Mr Lykourenzos as Minister recognised his usefulness, but they would make him better. Let's make him better! Second, e-prescription. Mr President, this has not been supported either. SYRIZA, who wants conflicts - and I don't know what Mr Papadopoulos says - did not support that either. He is, of course, talking about his evolution. It's also a form of self-criticism. It's accepted. ESY.net - which, of course, is not the digitalisation of hospitals, because in this place to digitize hospitals it takes two centuries - was, with one technical practice, an attempt to understand how the costs are incurred by doctors who are thirty years in the ESY or forty or ten or one. The decrease in the consumption price of the drug: I took it five hundred and gave it three and became two. That meant, Mr President, that they paid television broadcasts against me. Mrs Pipili told me here: '20,000 is doing the hit on a television show'. Mrs. Pipili told me. I'm not a journalist, I don't know. We made electronic supplies of medicine to hospitals. The price fell 80% down. They're having a show like this today? If they do, a thousand Bravo. I want to know if they do. Well, then we weren't praised for that. They hadn't said a good word. They were fighting it. They were fighting them all. In all cases, however, the price reductions of medicines did not once say 'yes'. They were then voting against the conflicts today. But that was a cost, Mr President, for us. We were told: "We will not let you out of your house" and they did not leave us. Many times at the Ministry I was looking for room in another Athens building, because they understood it to me. They were hitting my secretaries. And they were social protests. We've transferred the bill from the Ministry of Trade - chaos, Minister - to you and the EOF. That's a big change. I wondered why the Treasury and not the EOF. And I did it. It was voted against by your colleagues at the time. You were not a congressman at that time. We moved - I heard you say this this morning - a very serious process that takes at least ten years to reach some level, the CENs, the unified hospitals. We have taken an example from Germany. The Minister of Health there didn't give us his model. He said yes, but his directors didn't give it to us. His suggestion was: "start it, but to do it as you want to lasting adjustments ten years". It's in your hands too. I would like to see - and I have listened positively to what you said - that you intend to move on. I also mention the OkANA units in hospitals, which have disappeared the list of shame in Thessaloniki and reduced in Athens. We have had wood for that, Mr President. We've had wood for that! The national prescribing - to go through as well on matters, how to say, which are less structural and are reforms, but are looking at the space - for the patient's sake, we have transferred it to all doctors and private doctors. They've been requests from medical clubs for years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have promoted the certification of new medical establishments not by the regions, but by the medical associations. The increase in transplantation and the new law. You didn't vote for him either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u174	Please finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u175	I'm closing, Mr. President. And because I had listened to Mr. Polakis when he undertook to talk about EKAV's "shoes", the competition for EKAV made him early in 2012. If I had left one - a year and a half more - because he had objections at the time - I would have taken the cars. They've got a year. Mr. Papadopoulou, will you take cars to EKAV? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that words are easy. Problems don't end. We have given the principle of solutions, with struggle and sacrifices, personal and political. The problems are many, they are lasting, and as long as the crisis keeps increasing, it magnifies them. Health is indeed needed - Mr President - as is education and foreign policy and defence, consultation. But if we can trade in this Chamber, Mr President, and we do not have the mental courage to say that it 'was done well' or to make self-criticism by saying 'I did not support it', we cannot produce consensus. We're convicted of separating lines. And life is very difficult, Mr President. I wish the Ministry's leadership no harm because I did not mention - you made me an observation about my time - confronting the Nile viruses and other problems we had.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u177	I hope we don't have any problems with flu. I hope there are no over-due problems. Because the briefing to us in this Chamber is now starting to come. I wish successes, I don't wish any successes. And I declare myself in a mood, like all the parties, to support. But this requires a struggle by the man who is in these positions, not demagogy, and requires political generosity, masculine and honesty. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. I shall, however, repeat what I said before. The circumstances are difficult, especially now that we spend the third memorandum, if you like. However, health must, in any case, be excluded from the memoranda. I said this to all the ministers and to you today: it is impossible for health requirements to be met with memorial conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u179	Not the health crooks, though. These are not to be excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u180	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I have an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Papadopoulos, this isn't a personal matter. Mr Loverdos used the Rules of Procedure. He didn't say anything wrong to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u183	No answer to stay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u184	He didn't say anything wrong to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u185	Look, I think first of all it is good for the Greek Parliament that a former Minister of Health feels affected by a charge of responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u186	Good. He didn't say anything wrong to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u187	Don't you want me to say two words?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u188	I'd like to, I'd love to. But I'm telling you he didn't say anything wrong. I didn't understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u189	I think it is honourable that a former Minister comes here to respond to a criticism that is also made in the text of the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u190	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u191	I want to read, dear Andrew Loverdo, that a waste, uncontrolled, corrupt and ineffective national health system is mentioned in the text itself. Does anyone feel responsible, that he can have the slightest responsibility for this situation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u192	You need to recognize the efforts, that's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u193	I'm glad you guys say you have no responsibility. Secondly, it is recognised in the text that the need to move from this situation to a quality and effective health system needs to exploit what has happened and what has not been done over a long period of time. The apportionment of responsibilities is because in 2008 a collective agreement had been signed between the Ministry of Health and the Federation of Hospital Medicines. The following governments have ignored the application of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Papadopoulos, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u195	Now use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u196	I'm sorry, you don't have the right to denial from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u197	But you don't want to hear an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u198	You have no right to secondary. But I give you the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u199	But it's not a dentist. It is a response to a fellow Minister who felt the need to come...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u200	Yeah, but he'll ask for the floor himself to answer you again. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u201	I would remind you that the agreement that has been reached - and then it has been made. 3754/2009- has been circumvented by the next governments and has now led Greece to be accountable, Mr Loverdos, to the country's lenders for the weekend. And we are being blamed for the cuts that have been made, for the appointments that have not been made, for the lost human potential that has not served the public health system. And we recognize today explosive gaps throughout the country - particularly in the tourist areas that are interested in European citizens coming here - and the answer from the Greek state may be "instead of asking us to accept your own responsibilities, because Greece today does not have a quality and effective health system from prevention to recovery". I therefore believe that the answers given by Andreas Loverdes help the creative dialogue, so that we know how to lead us to a quality and effective public health system in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u202	Thank you. Mr Papadopoulos, I must tell you that the paradox of health is a chronic problem and I must say that the first to use the word 'piranhas' was not Mr Papadopoulos, it was me at that time. I also have to tell you, as Mr Loverdos said, that the rivalry of all the health ministers was with the paranoid economy. And when the ministers of health - not all of them, almost everyone - were messing with the black economy, they were leaving. It's like that, know them and write them down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u203	You said well about the Maastricht agreement and the consequences...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u204	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u205	But instead of the finger swinging down against the public health system...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u206	Let's finish here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u207	...to remind them that they can help both from the Community budget and from the specific programmes that the Structural Funds need to develop in order to help Greece make an organised health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u208	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, I am not entitled to speak under the Rules of Procedure. Please, if you want, for thirty seconds, three words only to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u210	Here you go, Mr. Bagiona.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, what others have said is correct, but it is a little correct. Half right is a little bad. We'll all agree that we have a joint effort to do, just like EPPY. But when a body starts - I was rapporteur for the bill, when the New Democracy opposition was - with a passive rate of EUR 3 billion, it cannot go well. This maliciousness with the bad authority without sufficient funding is now being perpetuated. I will not extend to e-prescription, which I was again rapporteur on the New Democracy side, and I said as an opposition to the then PASOK government that we should give not EUR 700 000, but some tens of million for full electronic prescribing. That was not accepted either. So when we start with passive evidence, it is not possible for the agencies to go ahead. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u213	It's the order of questions. Mr. Mavrot, will you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u214	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Polakis, you have the floor. How much time do you want? Five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u216	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u217	Ten? The Minister has ten minutes. If he won't talk, you guys will.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has also been extended beyond the narrow question of health, and I think it needs a response. It seems to be a pity for some to see how much the licenses for pan-Hellenic channels will be, because they know that they will lose the support they currently have in order to continue the circuitry of the interlocutory in this country. The advertising expenditure that exists has a height. In order for the channels to be viable, they must have a number to be able to live from this advertising expenditure and not every three and a little bit to ring the door of the central authority to intercede in the banking system in order to lend them to continue to operate, to continue to support governments, to continue to take projects from them, because that was what was happening. This party is over and over. Let some decide. That'll be the situation from now on. That is a matter. Two. A number of issues were raised in general. I come to the need to respond to Mr Loverdo, the former Minister of Health. Mr. Loverdo, if you so much want to bring in a new law, then why did you leave the debate on the parallel program you, New Democracy and Potami, who had half of the health bill? If you wanted to bring it so badly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u219	We would vote against yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u220	Don't answer me, Mr. Loverdo. I know that, too. I heard you very carefully. Don't answer me and above all don't move my finger. You made the EPPY. You made a giant with clay legs, Mr. Loverdo, who so far...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u221	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u222	We're gonna have a dialogue now? Oh, no. You won't fly. I knew very well to cut you off before. Now you will listen to me'revolved' in what I am about to say. You made a giant with clay legs, who until today, in 2016, has no organization. We're making him now. The heads of his directors don't get the presiding allowance, because EOPY doesn't have an organization. Two. You made the e-prescription. I want you to 'open up'. SYRIZA did not vote for it because you had it in the package of all the memoranda. She's not bad at herself. Obviously, it's not. But you know what you didn't do? Real time check. You were supposed to reduce them. Fifty-three million recipes were written, fifty-five million recipes are now being written with a very large amount of demand in there. Why? Because you have not equipped any system with the possibility of effective control. And move on to the next one. You have made a large horizontal cut, Mr. Loverdos, not because you are the archangel of the conflict with interests, but because he said the memorandum that you must cut so much. That's what you did. But you have not touched - neither you nor the two next - nor a hair of the mechanism that produced, produced and will cease to produce, within a short period of time, a health problem. This story keeps away. It has been keeping especially since the years of modernization, 1996-2004, where the entire system of Greek society was organized in the midst and the black money, which had nothing to move unless the baxes fell. Then it's done. This was the offer of modernism in Greek society: the massive extraction of wide-ranging social layers that were thrown from black money bones when they were pouring the legs and the big pieces of the vast strings of twenty new jacks and eighty old. That's what happened then. You didn't touch anything at all. And because you didn't touch, you did contests with some pharmaceutical companies, Teva and Mylan, which offered - as a rabbit - some outrageously low prices that they couldn't afford to supply hospitals with generic medicines or to bring an order. Did you preach any of them down, and we didn't get it? But in this way, by giving a price that no one can compete with - why was it outrageously low - what was happening? Because the hospitals had to take medication, the patients had to take medication. We were out of contract. We were buying in other prices. We could not apply this price. We were buying someone else. There's the small orders, there's the supplies. This was done, these were the works and the days and it continues to this day. The last example, now that we are going to resolve it and find a solution with the price observatory. Again a giant with clay feet observes the market, does not interfere. You set that thing up nicely. I will give the example that has been created these days with the pacemakers. We're talking about pacemakers who some years ago were paying them 2,500, 3,000, 3,500, 4,000 euros. At the moment, the prices that models play accordingly - and I am talking about the lower category - are from 800, 1,100 euros and so on. Here's a parentheses. The observatory for about two years didn't work because the platform wasn't working. And even that check he could do at a price level, he didn't. We put him in front of him. And what comes out now - because that's how you set up the system. Here comes a company, gives an outrageously low price and sits the system. He tells you, "I can't deliver," so what happens now? A situation is being triggered, we don't order this pacemaker we've been using so far, but we're ordering someone else who's much more expensive than the one we used before. That's the circuit. This thing you've been building for so many years. I'm going to some other things below. There's a lot of bad administrations, too bad, guys. Remind me of a few things, 'cause I guess the memory of some is selective? Were the perpetrators appointed by any dignity? With the four - two - one they were appointed. Four - two - one! Secondly, in alphabetical order they ranked. No rating crisis has taken place. In alphabetical order, Mr. Barriota!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u223	Nine-two is now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u224	I know very well why this whole thing has come up. Because it is the first mass mechanism of the former state and state that is dismantling. It is a massive mechanism in which these hundred thirty people controlled the circuits four hundred thousand votes and managed from 1.5 billion euros - directly - up to 1.8 billion euros. It's crying, what to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u225	Why are you doing the same is the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u226	Don't fly, Mr. Barriotta. I have listened very carefully to you. We don't look like you, Mr. Barriotta, to do the same. We want three things. We don't look like the previous system. And you know why we don't look like each other? Think a little of who were before we were, what parties were those who took over health ministers since post-population. And I and Andrew have an equivalent example that there is no leading position in the party, whether secretaries or two or the other, but being fighting doctors has never existed before. That is why we are not like you, and that is why we will not do the same thing as the previous ones. Three things we want from the new governors, Mr Barriotta, we do. First, they should be clean. And we'll check this out, because we're too and seeing them in the eyes, we can figure out if they are. Secondly, they should know letters, that is, they should be able to command them. We don't want any of the comics, Mr. Barriotta. We want people who can run the system and make decisions and make clear what they have to do. And thirdly, they must agree - yes, of course, and here it is political, but this is not a party close, it is political - that there they go to support the public health system, so on this basis they must work. These three qualifications must be available. Because there's no clean technocracy, Mr. Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u227	Where did you get these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u228	There's no pure technocracy. And now, the Englishmen and the others who bring us some examples here say that doctors are the best managers. They're taking some studies now and they've seen it. And be careful of me, all that I described earlier, all this misagent, corruption and involvement, with these technocrats, took place in these positions. Who was it with?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u229	When did we have techcrats?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u230	Well, I think these are things that society does and it knows and you're not gonna move the finger that you're going to build the party state. Yours is still the state and the mechanisms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u231	Ours?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u232	In fact - and I will reply to that - they are strongly resisting what we are doing, but we are defeating it, because we know where we want to go, we have the determination to do so and we do not owe anyone any credit. Let me say two, three other evidence. You've been a little confused by the evidence. He said two, three things before, but I think I should repeat them myself. And you need to pay attention to the financial department of your party and the information it gives you, because there is a mandarin that says: "Take a accountant to carry you books, the shop will be closed and it will be a sin." Firstly, 9.6% of GDP is the sum of public and private expenditure, because you put it that way. We are currently spending around 5% of GDP as public spending...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u233	Actually, 4.7%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u234	...and then you described these figures, 4% were private expenditure, but it was more than GDP. Another 200 225 million GDP and another 174 million 180 million. Secondly - and this is what Andreas said before, but to make it clear - regarding the appointments: The 384 which you say we are forecasting for staff is - and in other words also for your finances, there is Mrs Miliakos' document from the General Accounting Office which says that 3,448 permanent public recruitments have been foreseen this year - the 335 newspapers that are increased this year, because they also provide for the people who will come and the second is the part concerning recruitment - there are 60 million in the hospital budgets and 27 million in the budgets of the ICM - which concerns subsidiary doctors and subsidiary hospital staff. So it has nothing to do with what you're writing about reality. And also, you're confusing the spending limit with the state expenditure. But that's what Andreas said, and I won't say any more. Now, for the supplies, because the landscape will change it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u235	Madam President, time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u236	Before I go to the supplies, I have to say some things, because they've opened a lot of issues. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u237	Time is specific, Mr. Polakis. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u238	Look, for the complete information systems one of you asked before, 50 million were spent. You know that? Fifty million euros were spent on the integrated hospital information systems. And there are whole areas where nothing has happened. Absolutely nothing! Or what's settled doesn't work and nothing's communicating! I, the Minister of Health, can't see what's going on in one of the hospitals that works, just everything that's sending me. We are now preparing and starting this interconnection and interoperability, which you have not done at all. This whole story with the information society programmes and digital convening, and so on, Vernardakis - which we have come in - so that the central administration can really see what its nodes, the nodes of the system, do not know about it. Only what they're sending us. If they send it. Is that right? He says, this is where 50 million euros were eaten, but for this job. You know that? And they ate them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u239	A lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u240	I'm talking about the health part.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u241	Do you know when they were eaten, Mr. Barriott? They were eaten when we had the technocrats, the managers since 2000, by the people that Papadopoulos started. That's when the party started. They put the first ones in and left the tails all the time. Should I remind you of the connection between the state of Nice and the Korydallos prisons to operate telemedicine with THEI of the Ministry of Justice? It's not 50, that's more, that's more fun. They came, they put the computers, that's it, we're done. The play was paid. It never worked. One example, I will tell you: Four telemedicine systems have installed. It works one and a half. The managers put these on, the managers, so we can explain, right? There has been a complete development of this system and a complete plan, which will not cost 50, will cost between EUR 5.5 million and EUR 7 million in its full development to enable the system to be interconnected, to have common accounting standards so that you can also make the big change in the supplies that I have described. The system is ready and will be put into phase and it will have nothing to do with the previous one. Imagine. We manage EUR 11 billion this year. Take out the wages and it's around 8 billion euros. These EUR 8 billion are from the state budget and the EEAS, and the market does what it wants, instead of us doing what we want, because we operate on the basis of credit. Why? Why first, we don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Polakis, please finish because you've been here for more than fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u243	I'll finish, but things have been heard here, and it's about taking your head off the wall! Where they owed us, they'll take the ox. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u244	That's how it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u245	No, that's not the case, Mr. Loverdo. Not like you used to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u246	You've promised everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u247	Not like you used to know, as you'll see from now on. Well, with the procurement system, which has three things, the first is the completion of the digitalisation of any material there is and is used in hospitals or health centers, the production of specifications that we make, will not be sent to Bullet by companies, and thirdly, the pricing with our own mechanism in a range of prices, in which we will allow competitions to take place rather than everyone likes and, as it likes it with the triangular circuits, which you never hit, where a material that started from EUR 50 production costs, sold the parent plant, went to another country with 400 euros, and was spinning at EUR 1,200 to EUR 2,500 tax free, to go to the country, and how many dealers used in the intervening period may have paid for it and EUR 5,000 and EUR 6,000 and EUR 6,000. That's it. Your day we were also doing this in a party today. That's what we're gonna break. There will be a range of prices within which a competition will take place, reflecting the actual value based on the use of the product. This will be done and the money will be collected in a koruna to do this, because it cannot be the same material to pay the French 1,5 euros, the state Greek hospitals 15 euros and the Greek EEA 35 euros. Same stuff! That's it, 'cause that's what you made of him. To finish...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Polakis, in two minutes you will fill in the Minister's first-time speech, twenty minutes. At least, finish there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u249	I'll be done. Madam President, you are absolutely right, but some answers had to be given. I think that the health workers and the Greek people in 2016 will understand - and they understand it already - that things are changing in the health sector. After seven years, for the first time, people enter the system and enter it. Because someone asked, the hundred eighty-seven of EKPB swear on Tuesday, despite the lyricism of a mechanism, and this should delay it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u250	The ambulances?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u251	It's causing me, Madam President. Well, the ninety ambulances will start surrendering from the end of February. For the other ninety-six there will be a new competition, because we will not sign our signature on what the previous ones have agreed. Okay? I'm clear. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u252	Madam President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Loverdo, wait. I'm going to give Mr. Barriotta the floor. Mr. Barriot, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u254	Madam President, I shall precede, because I ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u255	What did you say? What's the staff? You were talking all this time. There's no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u256	There is. Would you give me a minute's reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u257	It can't be done, Mr. Loverdo. I have listened very carefully to the Minister and there is no staff. What is it? Will you speak for the technocrats?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u258	I won't talk like that. Will you give me the floor to explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u259	To what is the staff? Say it so I can figure it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u260	You have to give me the time to analyse it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u261	So say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u262	He made about seven mentions of me by name...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u263	Your office. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u264	He made seven references to me, and in fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u265	And? That's not personal, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u266	Look, Madam President, apply the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, when you give me the floor on staff, give me a minute to argue. You won't let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u267	All right. Finish it up. I haven't even put time on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u268	He made seven references to my name, half of which with an immature look and very threatening one. This is not a collegial behaviour and I want to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u269	It is not personal to refer to your term of office.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u270	That's all. I wouldn't take the floor for that. I gave you special references to the style and time of his arguments. It was his style and insulting. I want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u271	I, too, think that the present ones have listened to a very strong criticism of the administrational hospital technocrats.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u272	Either you take the floor off me or you give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u273	For you, nothing specific has been mentioned. Anyway, I don't know, Mr. Loverdos, because today I have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u274	Your colleagues have given the floor for two minutes on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u275	Here, you have the floor for two minutes, see what you're going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u276	Madam President, I would like to say to the Minister - and I call on all my speeches at the National Representation - they may not have been to everyone, but Mr Xanthos was - that I am trying, with a very serious parliamentary morality, to criticise them without insulting. I'm not shouting, I'm not saying, I'm not blaming, I'm not insinuating. But this is a dialogue area. Objections will be made. Now that they're hitting the world, they should know that abstract words don't say anything. These words make sense. This morning, the Deputy Minister was not here, of course, to answer for the IFs and he did not make a report. Mr. Blondie did. But he did not do what Mrs Christophilopoulou himself had to ask. He's got to tell us about EPPY. He didn't - he says - clay feet and tells us about benefits. Tell us what his government did a year to give him his normal legs. For a reform is being carried out and it must be supported. One year of his own term, what does it mean to EPPY? I accept self-criticism for e-prescription. It was, from what he said, a matter of spatial legislative work. If, in other words, he wasn't in law, he had other memorials, he would vote for him. As if it could not be Parliamentary to say 'I am voting for this'. We are not ashamed, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u277	I'm not embarrassed either, be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u278	When you bring the polynomial plan, which you took back, "you did the garrison" and humiliate your MPs, who have taken the floor, we said that many health provisions will be passed with courage. The opposition wins, in the field of logic, when he accepts something the government says. You're not saying it all wrong, or 1000% wrong, or you're not traitors and germans. We will criticise you, accept the criticism. So we'd vote. 'You did this arrogant' because you didn't have all the elementary pre-parliamentarians you should have. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I wonder, now that a month has passed, and when you have been able to bring the opinion of the Council of State and quantify the General Accounting Office, why do you not bring them? Who's blocking you? Who restricts you to humiliating this House?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u279	Next week he's coming. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u280	Will you? You'll all be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u281	No 'will'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u282	I have more to say, Madam President, to the colleague. We can have a dialogue. Conflicts for someone, who's a politician, are a common phenomenon. I am not tempted by the acute expressions, but the style will be as imposed by the Rules of Procedure, the way it will be, and violence will not stand in here, the verbal violence and the gestures. We will talk, as the Greek people want to hear us talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u283	The staff have not heard it, but in any case each Member's style is well known, it will not change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u284	Madam President, may I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u285	You will speak, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Barriotas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u286	Madam President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u287	What do you want? Do you want to answer that? But he didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Polakis, mercy! There's a road block.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u289	I wanted to say about the I.T.s.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u290	Madam President, why not listen to this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u291	Mr Barriotta, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be brief. Mr Loverdo, I take this opportunity to point out that there is a gap for parliamentary topical questions, in general. There's a process. Tapping is a well-known left disease. We followed a few minutes ago, for twenty-five minutes, a source of an aggressive form of the particular disease of the Left, with Mr Polakis. In any case, I'm going to get over the lookout because I know it's not on purpose and it's not on purpose. But there are huge problems. Mr. Polakis, you're not ruling well because you want to rule well. You rule well by building institutions, which are transparent all the time and cleanliness. That's what we say about hospital commanders. If you are the perfect minister - who I hope - the next one will be like the ones you say and take advantage of the gap that you leave behind, and he will reset the lame. We've seen a number of times canceling what the first one did from next. The only medicine is the introduction of solutions and policies, which are permanent and go beyond your term of office. That's what we're saying. In other words, 'transparency and institutions'. You don't want to. You need to introduce it. That's the answer. What you're doing is one of the same, exactly the same way. I will be here, when the names are announced, to look for the curriculum, because I am sure you will'suppress' as the previous ones. I will be here, when the first scandal comes out - which I hope will be late and small, but it is a matter of time - to point it out. Because human nature is the same everywhere and because subjective choice has had and always has problems. This has to do with the commanders. I won't talk again. I'm sorry, but the rest of it can't be commented on. I do not question it, but we have said that we need a timetable, concrete measures and a programme. For wanting to change the procurement schedule - I don't understand what you said about the Observatory - I need to see it written. Once I see it in law, I'll comment on it. We see it and we talk. We haven't seen anything in a year. We didn't see any laws. We have seen pieces of amendments and we have also taken a cold with what you have tabled. For the first reason, there is much - as Mr Loverdes says - to vote, because they are technically needed in the system and they must be done, but they have no philosophy. It is a 'poultry' of solutions, amendments packed up on each other, without any, but none at all. It has extremely problematic provisions, such as this most outdated rhetoric provision, which I have seen - not in here, a year now that I remember - which has to do with how to transfer and transfer nurses, which abolishes everything, opinions, service councils and there is a party signature of the Minister without any opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u293	Now why are you lying, Mr Barriotta?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u294	Anyone who wants to transfer anyone, wherever they want, without even an opinion and a rationale. And this is Klathmonos Square. Do you remember her? I'll find him the law. I wish we'd never see it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u295	Now you're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u296	It's not a lie. It's an article. I'm going to testify for the PDF that you guys pulled out and released. It goes without saying: "All previous provisions are repealed, they are simply signed by the State Secretary". It's in the bill. I hope you don't bring it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u297	We'll bring back what we brought before, which has nothing to do with what you're saying now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u298	What you brought, that's what I read. The budget - to finish with how the numbers are used and how they are manipulated - is a specific thing. The hospital budget is increased by 200 million, which, when assessed by the legislator, will give the hospitals more. That says, we're sure that 20% more EOPY patients will go to hospitals. We don't know that in advance. Because EPPY's indemnity, he's not a non-profit organization to pay. The second is that this money does not exist for the simple reason - we all know very well - that the EEA owes 2.5 billion, at least until Christmas, and that is an amount that is growing. Not only does the budget of hospitals increase, but in fact it is dramatically reduced, for the simple reason that they have no registration and no provision for payment, the outstanding debts of hospitals that go beyond - if I am not mistaken - in the billion. This means that hospitals, if they intend to continue to supply materials, must pay part of their budgets, even before. That's how the budget gets tired, doesn't grow. It has no sense and no continuity in talking about numbers in this way. We're here to talk. In order to talk, however, we must be honest. We must be clean, institutionalised and admit some things. There are no easy solutions to this ERC, as is the money there. But we can't push the problems under the carpet or cover them with general theory, I'll do, I'll show, I'll make. I sincerely believe that you have the best of dispositions. But this cannot be done and cannot be done without a programme. He needs politics. What is government policy for the coming years? Will it be the DRGs, the CENs that Mr. Loverdos said? Will you apply them? As the thousands of problems began with the incredible sloppiness, will we make a new start with the CENs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u299	Changed, though, improved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u300	It is a specific policy method which you have so far rejected, as you rejected the restructuring of hospitals, as you rejected private relations. Will you change? There's more than the classic economic logic that says the machine's fine, it's a little jagged, I'm gonna throw some oil, a little money, I'm gonna take some people and let her work like before? It's not gonna work. At best, if it works, it will produce the same deficit that it has always produced. It is not going to change anything unless its institutions and its operating logic are changed. We have no investments - they are very little - in the next five years. There's a huge funding gap, even from the ESRB's money. It was 48 million in the previous one for Thessaly, and now it's 7 million. The image is uniform everywhere. So what are we gonna do? How are we going to support the system? You have the bad habit of confusing the state with the state. They don't identify them. Public, free health, Belgium. Belgium, having incorporated the exact same conditions into its system, state, private and PPP units, pays them exactly the same logic, no one pays anything anywhere. This is a public, free health system. What you argue with, Minister, is a state health system. And I fully respect your availability and your faith in any such health system. But we have a political problem. It is incompatible with Europe and after 2018, if we assume we will get out of the memorandum. It is a system that does not exist anywhere, cannot be accepted and is not financed. The European trend is specific, and it is what we think should be done in the country, namely, the use of transparent investments, public and private, and all, uniform, uniform fees for doctors, uniform fees for nurses and health services, and an assessment of strict and cleanness. I listen to very, very displeasant people saying at every opportunity that they are interested, willing and ambitious to deport billions of private investment in the country, which also means thousands of jobs. It's not that simple. Our system is mixed and we need to reform it for the benefit of the citizens, taking into account the constraints and possibilities of the economy of the country. In this way, I think, if we want to talk seriously, we can only talk about developing primary, secondary and tertiary health by making use of all the resources available to the country and attracting new private investment. It is the only source of investment that can be found for the next few years. There is no budget, no Europe, nothing, no parrot! The only person who can invest in technology and new cheap and efficient services is the private sector. And that's what a man, like Mr. Papachristopoulos, says - I'm not that big, thankfully yet - I have all my career in public hospitals. I want to see them working effectively, looking at private competition in the eyes, because they can. They have both infrastructure and doctors and competence. What they do not have, Mr Polakis, are commanders and management of the project. It's in the previous century. It's in the 1950s. And goodwill is not enough, nor ideological references are enough. They need specific things. They have been discovered in Sweden of social democracy, they have been discovered in England of the labor party, they have been discovered in Germany of the Christian Democrat Party. They work, pay, and citizens go to the doctor in reasonable time, without putting their hand in the pocket and getting well. This is the object of the health system. It is not your ideology, nor my "deep" or anything. It is necessary to ensure for the citizens of this country, free public health, based on specific things, based on the system we have, by exploiting and making best use of the few real resources that we have from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u301	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u302	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u303	Minister, will you speak too? Tritology? You've got five minutes, though. I've let everyone speak twice as much time as you can see...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u304	Except me, but you didn't preside.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u305	... twice as much as Mr. Paulis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it was an interesting debate, despite tensions. That's always the case. Health is a field where people's dignity is really being tested every day, and it is also a field rightly criticised by governments, as is our government, about whether it has managed to improve - and how quickly that is - this bad reality. However, this assessment which has been made, that for a year we have been following unprojected tactics, without political will, without a reformist view of the state of the health system, is totally wrong. And an unblemished witness for this, is the UN expert report, Mr. Bohoslavski, who came a month ago, in December 2015, and made a special reference to the health sector. He came to note whether, in Greece, the memorandum and austerity are respected, human and social rights are respected. I read you out of the UN expert's position: "I welcome the government's decision, to allocate for the first time for many years additional funds for public health care in the 2016 budget and to implement globally a plan to improve access to health services". This is said by the UN expert and not by a SYRIZA rapporteur. I would like to remind you of the report by the previous UN expert, Shepherd Lumina, who had come to our country two years ago - you can find the report - which was an indictment on the policies of the then government on health poverty, to which they had condemned society, even for interventions - and here I really think this report should be made - concerning Mr Loverdos, such as the dissemination of positive women.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u307	It's none of my business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u308	There's a whole paragraph, Mr. Loverdos, the paragraph 64 mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u309	It's none of my business! It results from your complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u310	The UN is hampering this behavior.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u311	The Athens Public Prosecutor has explained that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u312	Good, good, I'm going further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u313	You can't say anything you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u314	I'm not saying what I want, you cause. On this subject you are causing. Please! I'm not saying what I want. It's recorded in public opinion. Our international scientific community has given up as a country, at a time when you were a Minister of Health. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u315	It has been clarified in the Committee on Institutions of the Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u316	Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u317	It's been clarified. Read!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Loverdo, you won't ask me for a staff later, because you take your time yourself, as you can see. So sit down for the Minister to finish. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u319	It has been clarified by the Athletic Prosecutor's Office. Read! You're indiscreet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Loverdo, when we say something, will you stand up and answer on the spot?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u321	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u322	Okay, good. The criticism that is being made is that we leave the administration of the system intact and do all we can to ball it out. That criticism is correct. I believe that we obviously need administrative reorganisation of the health system and not just to create new institutions, such as primary care, etc. Obviously, he needs an administrative organisation. Our will, indeed, is to discuss and bring forward a plan, which will have the broad consensus of this Parliament, so that we have reliable institutions of administration in the health system. But, dear colleague of the River, we must be honest in saying that the faces also have their role. I do not believe that the problem of the health system is administrative, because many administrative models have been altered, many forms of administration have been, as there have been qualified managers, political executives, and there have been appointed presidents, the period that had been abolished and the representations at the boards. The point is that all the hard core of this system, its structural problems and their distortions have not been tackled, despite changes in administrations, despite changes in the state of the Council and of State, etc. So it is important both for the faces and the symbolism that produce these faces. Take care, then, with which logic we have chosen faces. I am not talking about the commanders' crises, which are an exemplary option, in my view, and you will see that. We will be judged, Mr Barriotta, not by the way we assessed the choices of the previous ones, but by our own choices, obviously. There will be a transparent process whereby we will really strengthen the sense of credibility and validity in the administration of hospitals. Note how we made central choices, which are the responsibility of the political leadership. The Secretary-General of the Ministry shall be a person from the Service. He's not a party executive, he's not a SYRIZA politician. The seven Directors of the OPOs shall be employees of the public health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u323	Full-qualified all...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u324	Look out, they're public health workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u325	What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u326	They are people who served and serve public hospitals. They are people who know the difficulties and anguish of people who fight every day and can cooperate with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u327	I'll see you with names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u328	The President and the Vice-President of the OECD shall be workers of the OECD itself. The President of the EMCDDA shall be an employee of the EMCDDA. The president of the CSCE is a worker, a haematologist head of Alexandra Hospital. That's the choice. We didn't put any political officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u329	But SYRIZA executives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u330	We have reduced - if you like - and the financial costs, because they are people who are paid by the state. We have also reduced the financial costs of these options. Sure. Don't laugh, Mr. Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u331	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u332	Of course we've reduced it. That's another perception. We did not, dear colleague, fail statemen and unorthodox. That is another concept, let me say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u333	I'll see you by the names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u334	I conclude with one point, which has been mentioned and because of time I have not been able to answer my prototype, the issue of mental health, which is very important. In this area, steps have been taken. There was indeed an ambitious reform plan, which has improved. With the disorganisation of public structures, with the abandonment of psychiatric departments and special hospitals, the Lykurenju-Antor could obviously not be implemented. We were criticised that we were negotiating secretly. Ladies and gentlemen, do not go so far as to adopt the misinformation of certain media which have simply lost their privileged relationship with the Ministry of Health. He has become an open committee, a working group of twenty-eight people from all mental health professions, which is working from spring 2015 to September and has come to a conclusion, which is the basis of the negotiation that will take place these days. Tuesday is the meeting in Brussels, by a multi-faceted delegation which, of course, is headed by a psychiatric teacher, specialising in these matters and not by any adviser to the Minister. And there will be serious changes and interventions in this area. We have a bill prepared and will soon come into consultation on the administrative reorganisation of the mental health system, with decentralised administration, with intermediate forms of administration between the sectors and the mental health department, with substantial interventions, which support a sensible transformation of asylum, while respecting the rights of mental patients. There will also be changes and interventions in this area. This is the first year of the year that we have guaranteed state funding for decommissioning structures, and the whole community of mental health professionals knows that. This has been happening for 15 years with an additional EUR 27 million in the budget. And we ensure that people who are currently receiving services and from the non-state sector can continue to receive them and have a healing follow-up and will not be found without care. Of course, there must be control intervention in this area, because it was also a point, and we know that very well, a focus and a challenger of demand and interacting and corruption. In the area of dependencies we have secured an additional EUR 5 million financing for the OECD to make a very important contribution with direct access units. They've been designed and agreed with local government and are ready to operate two units in the Lefkanopje, which will absorb the waiting list for recovery therapy. These are critical changes of enormous social importance, especially for parts of the population, which have no influence and do not come out on the channels and create a climate of political pressure on the government. There's another sensitivity, my dear colleague. You say we're all in favour of public care. It is not a personal matter, obviously, nor are we better, nor are we more sensitive socially. But we have another political perception of the role of public health. It is precisely because we believe in people's equality that we cannot accept health inequalities. That is why we want universal access and equal and effective care. And because we have another vision, and because we have another political plan, and because we are people of public care, and we are well aware of the struggles and struggles, of course, and we are not ashamed of the struggles we have done for public care - when there were political leaderships that were demolished - and because we are also part of the social solidarity in this country and we have put our stone, so that during the period of exclusion of the uninsured decent care of these people, for all these reasons, my dear colleague, we are sure, that we can also inspire the human potential of the system and work with the most honest powers and that is why we can manage to stand up to the health system up, to have a moralization in this area and reorganise it on other bases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u335	Please don't go because I have some announcements. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the Municipal School of the Hellenic School of Volos "Saint Joseph" - "Saint Joseph". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 5 November 2015 and Thursday 19 November 2015 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u336	The minutes of Thursday 5 November 2015 and Thursday 19 November 2015 were therefore validated. The debate on number 12/8/9-12-2015 of the Members of the Potami Parliamentary Group, to the Ministers for Health and Finance, on the National Health System, is hereby opened. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-22-S1-commons.u337	With the consent of the House at 15.01; the sitting on Monday, 25 January 2016 at 17.30', on the subject of the proceedings of this House, is closed: (a) legislative work and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
