ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 24-2-2016 authorisation, the minutes of its 2nd session of Wednesday, 24 February 2016 concerning the vote on the draft law as a whole: ‘National Register of Executive Officers of Public Administration, Statutory Position Structure, Evaluation, Promotions and Selection of Heads (transparency - Accuracy and Effectiveness of Public Administration) and other provisions’, were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Anastasia Gara, Member of the European Parliament, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[To enter page 2a]] [[B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS’ REQUIREMENTS]] ........................................ (To enter page 2b)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 26 February 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The No. 575/23-2-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Finance regarding the repayment of loans granted to ND and PASOK parties. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 564/22-2-2016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on the assessment of the new financial measures for the period 2015-2016. 3. The Question No 568/22-2-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the payment of the due allowances and payments to the farmers of Elias. 4. The question by No 578/23-2-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Bardalis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the redundancy of a worker at the factory of "K.K.MARAKIS - KALAS S.A. - ANNUAL INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE INSTITUTIONS' IN THE Industrial Area of Sindos, in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. 5. Under number 573/23-2-2016, a timely question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the need for more complete information to the customers of PPC on the possibilities and protection offered to sensitive social groups. 6. The No. 571/22-2-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Health, on the need to complete the tender launched since 2007 for the supply of new ambulances of the EMCDDA. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 576/23-2-2016 by MP Corfu of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Fotinis Vakis to the Minister of Health on the needs of the General Hospital of Corfu. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The No. 565/22-2-2016 topical question by the Member of the Ionian Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the continued operation of the University Departments in Agrinio. 3. The No. 569/22-2-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PA.S.O.K. - P.M.A. Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the contribution of the Ministry to improving the banking product, called the Carta Farm. 4. Under number 579/23-2-2016, a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Administrative Reconstruction concerning measures to ensure the jobs and salaries of workers in the Social Poverty Response Structures. 5. Under number 574/23-2-2016, a timely question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning a post on the report of the new administration of the Greek Sugar Industry against former administrations for mismanagement that caused damage to the industry's property. 6. Athanasios Papadopoulos, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister of Health, on the implementation and modernisation of the institutional framework necessary to respond more quickly to public services, in order to provide incentives to attract clinical studies in our country. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The No 511/9-2-2016 topical question by MP I of the Republic of New Democracy, Elena Rapti to the Minister of Health, concerning the revocation of decisions decommissioning innovative services from the Institute for Health of the Child. 8. Under number 537/15-2-2016, a timely question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Health, on the need to adapt the legislation governing the status of "trainers" to the transitional schools of adults of the Centre for the Treatment of Dependent Persons (KEH).). REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1549/30-11-2015 question of the Deputy of Attica of the Democratic Association of PA.SO.K. - P.M.A. Mr. Paraskevi to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on delays in the payment of workers to the Social Poverty Structures
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The second question under number 541/15-2-2016 will be discussed with the Minister of State on the attempt to establish a party state. The Minister will answer Mr Nikolaos Pappas. Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, unfortunately, I find myself in an unpleasant position, invoking, not the objections of the New Democracy, but the reports and reactions of officials, who point to the danger of establishing an unscrupulous party state, which is being attempted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. This makes me sad, and saddens me, because I hoped that, like all Greek women and all Greeks, I would. This by a left-wing government - the identity of which is now abominable by the Prime Minister - now states that it is the patriotic identity that concerns him - that no one would expect. And I'm explaining. First of all, Mr President, according to the publication of the newspaper “NATIONOS” entitled “The old system is still here” by valid journalist Michael Ignatiou, published on 10-1-2016, the government appears to build this party state everywhere. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] The question raised, Minister, is: What do you answer that? You confirm that? Are you confusing it? Do you think that the practice of your Government, but also of your partners, in the daily routine of government policy is removing it, denying it or strengthening it? On the other hand, I would like to ask how you intend to heal it, since this has happened, and it is proven, and I will be given the opportunity to tell you too, if you do not know it. I imagine, however, that you are also reading the minutes of the House as a matter of urgency. It is not a complaint that comes only from the Ward of Officerial Response. It is a case of proof, unfortunately, of many daily things from all the wings of this House. Aren't you worried about this? In any case, how do you intend to heal it? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. The Minister, Mr. Pappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs Papakosta, for the question. Mrs Papacostas, it is the government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks who, from the outset, spoke about the need for the state to be partisan. And that need made her practical, she didn't stay in the talk. It is a happy juncture that we are coming to discuss your question one day after the adoption of the draft law on public administration. I am sorry to be in this position to say that in spite of all the assurances made by the Chief of Staff in a previous debate in the House, you did not vote for it. And that is indicative of your intentions, but of how you understand the relationship between parties and the state. We would expect at least from him, because yesterday he was absent, to be more generous, more brave and more self-critic and to assist, to contribute and consent, at least, to the basics of the bill, which was not done. We have made progress in the reform of public administration, not because someone asked for it. And here I would like to tell you about some articles. There is the phenomenon of exporting and reimporting publications. So some people in here are commenting on the outside. The remark that is being exported, re-imported and that comes as a complaint from the institutions, a complaint from Europe, I do not know who, and what is happening, is also a matter of parliamentary control. It is clear, of course, that the bill of public administration, apart from our own obligation to be compatible with our principles, is also in agreement with the institutions, and I think you should take this very seriously. The bill that we voted yesterday establishes a National Register of Public Administration Officers, so that we can create a single internal labour market and make maximum use of human resources. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] The bill introduces a new evaluation system, which is aimed at improving the administrative practices provided on the opposite side of the previous punishment system. It also introduces a worthy selection system for heads, which takes into account and typically qualified and qualified staff and evaluation, as well as the procedure for interviewing special councils. Introduces the new rating. In close proximity of course, it is also important to upgrade the National Public Administration Centre. I would therefore say to you that in the wording of your question you should take very seriously into account the exhaustive debate which took place yesterday and I am sorry to say this once again, the Chief of Police was absent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I am very surprised to hear the Minister say in this House that some people are importing and reintroducing. And I am glad that the Minister for Health is here, because I have an example of bad practice for what I am asking of the establishment of a party state with a zeal to create party paternalism, which has no precedent, which I will prove right now. For I was expecting the relevant Minister, Mr Pappas, who is asked and controlled by the procedure of parliamentary scrutiny, to be more brave. There are Members here, Mr Pappas, who speak and whose views are recorded in the Minutes and who are conducting interviews and who are obliged to highlight problems, distortions and diseases. Are you going to fade the MPs now? Is that what you said before? I have to tell you you're doing a lot of unfair. And I regret that, because in total, this hurts my country's image. And this has nothing to do with the Civic Opposition, which, if you like, will come to the government. As you go, the New Democracy will come to the government much sooner than you expected. But you do a lot of unfair. Unfair vs. Chief of Officer County, unfair vs. MPs, whom you would like to fade. Your view of democracy is very original! We're not here already soviet. We're a Greek democracy! I regret that you, a young man! For example, I see the Minister of Health. You spoke with too much zeal - let me use this term, because I do not want there to be zeal in this Chamber, neither in the government nor in Parliament - for the famous reform of public administration. Let me tell you that since 2000 I have been elected a Member of Parliament, I have been dealing with ad hoc on this issue. I have to tell you that I have never seen the establishment of a register of civil servants, which, instead of operating since yesterday, will work after two years. So neither do you believe the system, which was introduced yesterday with many praises. In any case, you have also made unfair political, surpriseing the political leaders, because the political leaders are not obliged to be your audience. They choose when they will be in the House, why and how they will be placed. Do you want to point out now to the political leaders how they will work? There's the Rules of Procedure of the House! However, I would like to tell you that there are two - three examples of what you are saying. I start first of all because it's experiential. You know, when in the last remodeling in the previous government I had the honour of having responsibility with other colleagues at the Ministry of Health, I have to tell you that we have implemented the n. It is not for you to implement 4079/2012, which you do not implement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. Do you know what this law says, Minister? It shall prohibit the appointment of spouses and relatives to a second degree of membership of the Government or of the State Secretary as a posting partner, a special adviser or a partner. We applied him. How about you? Apparently not! I would like to tell you that the Minister for Health considered that he had to appoint in the country, in the middle of a budgetary crisis, in addition to a Secretary-General, and a deputy to his Secretary-General, when you are discussing in insurance how to cut wages and pensions and how you will be charged to both their insurance and tax farmers. I have to tell you that Mr. Spirji is doing this. Mr Spirtzis has a famous dormant, which he has adopted by way of an amendment to the grazing land, and he also appoints a president to public enterprises, which are ministered by Mr Spirtzis - who sometimes cries and operates a policy - and is a director. I am telling you a third example, which you can immediately check and see that it is the case. I am talking to you, Minister, and not unfair positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u9	Ms. Papakostas, you'll have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u10	I come to a final proposal, Mr President, on the new method of selecting managers of primary and secondary education. Do you know what you're doing there? Do this unbelievable: you have put above academic qualifications and administrative experience, Minister, the interview. This has resulted in - I am giving you the data and look into it, ask Mr Phile - four directors, and they did not take any vote during the elections by the school directors, to be premiumed by the interviews - that is what I told you before - and to take the place, so that we become a rabies. So if you want to - thank you very much, Mr President - to say what you are saying, namely that you embrace all Greeks and that you are not in the mood to establish a party state of your own, prove it in the matter. Behold, the field of glorious glory! Treatment the problem, which is already present. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Pappa, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Papakostas, let me start with the last one. Despite what is said, sixteen are the training directors. For the first time they emerged through an open and fair process. I would say to you that if you look in greater detail, you will see that there are also persons who have been openly expressed in favour of the New Democracy or PASOK. And that is exactly what proves that they are not our criteria. Unfortunately, the way you chose to defend the leader of your party reminds me of the legitimate and moral debate. Of course it's legal. Mr Mitsotakis may be absent from the House at all times. Nobody said it was illegal. Of course. But we're politically judging him. Politically we consider his absence to be a top political choice. And this choice let me tell you that it will follow him. As he will be followed by the fact that he had fifty post-call employees in his office. Or that he ceased without second reason directors and directors-general and appointed with merely ministerial signature their replacements. And he also stopped people who were judged by the service councils. Look, then, what is the story of your party. I'm not judging her. But, indeed, the history of the New Democracy could be condensed as a story of two - three political families. How, in such comfort, do you come here and launch such charges against this government? The Greek people understand. And he even understands, I would say, that our advantage and our ability to put them in established interests come from the fact that we were not part of the old political system. Now, whether or not we're going to leave fast or not, I'd tell you not to rush. Because anyone who's in a lot of trouble burns in the heat. This is not only about those who are in the Chamber, within the House and within the policy. It also concerns others who think that 2016 is 1965. That's it. To conclude, I would say that there is a traditional problem in the Greek public administration. Because the Greek public administration, the Greek state, was not built as a mechanism, which had to reverse the public services and rights. It was built as a mechanism for the reproduction of parties and client relations. And we come - unfortunately the knot arrived at the comb - to make this big cut. So let us not launch such accusations and deal with the real problems. I repeat that it is very happy that we are on the day following the adoption of the draft law on public administration, which makes a cut in relation to the existence of the client state. Mrs Papacosta, be sure that this government is moving against the client state and against those who think it is going to have the client state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Next is the fourth question under number 557/16-2-2016. First-round question from the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of National Defence on the landing of military planes in Rhodes. The current question will be answered by the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panos Kammenos. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, the objective of this timely question is essentially to answer the government and not the Minister of National Defence. The question is asked to the Minister of National Defence, because in all this literature there was an argument, if you like, that the Prime Minister's plane was designated as a military plane. That is why the question is being asked to the Minister for National Defence. The timely question therefore concerns the fact that the House should be informed of what happened. A lot has been written, much has been said, which have the character of exaggeration, as is done every time. So asking the Minister of National Defence to say or, if you want, what exactly happened, I think it is something and reasonable and expected. In my dentistry, if there's a matter, I'll develop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to inform my fellow Members that I have answered Mr Cremastin twice more on this question, as I am due to be the Minister of National Defence. I replied to him in our telephone communication, answered him on February 17, 2016 in a question that he asked me in the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs at a classified meeting, in fact by submitting information, which bears the degree of confidentiality and I will not tell the House. There is, however, a climate here, which I really do not understand why it is being created. Golden Dawn, which accompanies a number of Nazis that show the Nazi flag on the Acropolis, is creating it, but I do not understand how it is possible for a Dodecanese and democratic MP to raise this issue. Well, I say to you, Mr Cremastine, that there is no Greek officer and no Greek diplomat - and I wish to hope that after today, no Greek MP - who disputes that war aircraft land and take off to Dodecanese and to all Aegean islands within the FIR Athens. Nobody! And, of course, there could not be a Greek officer or a Greek diplomat who would accept Turkey's request, the Prime Minister's aircraft to refuel at Bontrum, to make things clear. You know that in Rhodes there are two permanent airplanes in the Armed Forces. There's a Super Puma for exploration and rescue and there's a Sunuk of the Drought Army. They land and take off, land and take off, land, land and take off all the war aircraft in all the Aegean islands, Rhodes, Kos, Karpathos, Kasos, Leros and all the islands where there are airports and units. There was never a question of questioning the right of the Greek Armed Forces to land and take off at Greek airports. So a matter of this aircraft was raised here. This aircraft has been handled since the accident of the late Kranidian Air Force. It is an aircraft flying under the Yankee I procedure, when it is the Prime Minister, and Yankee II, when it is the Ministers, i.e. it is a VIP route with a specific flight plan that does not impact other aircraft. And that's why, as a warplane, she's getting diplomatic permission. On this flight the Greek Air Force officers did well and the Greek diplomats did well and they submitted the flight plan, so that the Prime Minister could go to Tehran with feedback to Rhodes. And the Turks come and illegally demand the refuelling to take place in Bondrum. So he's going to take the aircraft down to Rhodes and then resupply to Bodrum to meet their own irrational demands. Well, that's why we didn't do it to them, and nobody's ever done it to them. You ask me, then, if the planes that carried Mr. Charles Papoulias landed in Kasso. Of course, they would land and land with both Mr Pavlopoulou and the next Presidents of the Republic. Other planes took off with the Prime Minister’s brother then, on Georgios Papandreou, to negotiate with Emir of Qatar the cases of demilitarization. Don't make me submit to you flight plans. And to finish with NATO - because you have a question for Monday - there has never been a question of Dodecanese. Never! There was never a question of Dodecanese. Of course the agreement applies to the whole Aegean, it applies to Kastelorizo, Kos, to Kalymnos, to Pserimos, to Agathonisi, to Lemnos. It applies to the whole Aegean. Such a document never existed. Yesterday I was visited by the normal PASOK. Mr. Karhimakis, Mr. Neotis, Mr. Petsalnikos, told me about the concerns of the Mayor of Rhodes. There is no reason for him to have any concern, because this has never been raised. There wasn't even a document. Golden Dawn Sites wrote these things and we are unfortunately repeating them and fearing the world in the Dodecanese. I'm talking to you like a Dodecanese. Know that, if that were the case, I would first be the one who would react and the one who would answer as he should. Don't have any doubts. We must not replicate such issues, which do not exist, because they affect our national positions. I think I made myself clear. Because you are asking for NATO yesterday at three o'clock the agreement was closed and already ships from the naval forces are on the coastline and in the Dodecanese and up to Lemnos and across the Aegean Sea in order to ensure that anyone rescued in Turkish or Greek territorial waters or other international waters will go back to Turkey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, calm down. Asking the Greek people responsible for what happened through Parliament is neither a personal question for you nor a question for the government. I think that's normal. I don't understand why you're upset. The second is that I did come to the closed door of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, to avoid answering, but, as you have seen, I was given a minute whole to speak, so you realise that there was no discussion possible in one minute. So I'm glad you're saying that. I don't question them. However, it was my question and I would ask you to understand it if you would like to answer it. Indeed, that is what you say, but, when the plane asks for permission - and it must be asked, why it goes from a foreign country to go to another country - and the other country in her opinion says that, because it thinks that the area is demilitarised, it does not approve the flight - that is what happened - the question is why, when the plane goes from here to Rhodes does not go to Rhodes to refuel and then head straight to Iran, avoiding even Egypt. Why am I saying that? For a simple reason, in order not to create this paraphilogy. Because if the plane would normally go to Rhodes, it would not go over Turkey in a direction direct to Iran, namely Israel, borderline Iraq and direct Iran, such as the map, and more quickly it would be farther away and there would not be all this parafisy. That was my question. I do not question what you are saying either personally or nothing. I told you before, because obviously some others tell you other things, which they do not express to me personally at least. That's it. Nothing more, nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u20	Excuse me, Mr. Comrade. You did a flight plan right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u21	No, that's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u22	You must explain to us how a aircraft from Greece to Iran will go without going either from Turkey or from Egypt. You can't do that. The map is specific. The flight plan, which was submitted, was refuelled in Rhodes, to pass over Turkey. I'm telling you. They're asking the Turks to resupply to Bodrum. We are officially denying it and protesting. From there on, the design to pass below had more miles. So the supply had to be done in Egypt. It could not be done in Rhodes, for it would not be enough for the fuel to make a round around the world to reach the bottom.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u23	Rhodes was less than a mile.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u24	Now, if you're airborne... Let the experts say. So I'm telling you, from the map, if you see, the supply to go to Tehran goes through Egypt. It is not enough for the Prime Minister's aircraft to go to Rhodes and there to go under Egypt to arrive. Can I tell you something? From that day until today, more than a hundred twenty war aircraft have been supplied to Rhodes and the islands of the Dodecanese. Do not raise issues that do not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u25	I'm not questioning that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u26	First, did you talk about demilitarisation? Do you accept that term? Do you accept that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u27	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u28	So there is no Greek officer, no diplomat, and I hope that you will not make the slip again - no Greek Member who speaks of such matters. There is an army that guards and defends national sovereignty. And to finish, to give you to understand once and for all, this government here issues of national sovereignty nor discuss them or retreats. The seasons that some of you supported governments suggested that the ministers should let the flags of Imia take the air out of it. And this government has no Minister for Pangalo, nor is it Prime Minister for Simitis. The seasons of national retreat and Ocalan's surrender with parliamentary backing ended once and for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u30	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, you are finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u32	That's not what I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Crematine, the Minister is now leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u34	That's not what I asked. My question was clear. And it had nothing to do with questioning anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u35	It was understood by your dentistry that you didn't have that goal. I don't think it was taken that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u36	But he didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u37	I won't apologise for the Minister. The Minister specifically replied. What else can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u38	We, Mr President, who is delaying us three months, say a few words, which the Minister has not come again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and apprentices and three educational sessions of the Athens High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The sixth question will be discussed under number 549/16-2-2016, first question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks, Dimitrios Kammenos Kammenos, Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the payment of warranties for the release of accused persons. The Minister will answer Mr Nikolaos Paradopoulos. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. Knowing the obligations you have, we will be very brief, but also material. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please, Mrs. Papakosta, a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Cammene, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u42	Please, be quiet, honourable Members. Come on, Mr. Cammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u43	When you spoke, we didn't bother you, Mrs. Papakosta. You're inconvenienced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u44	No no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u45	Please. Mr. Cammane, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u46	Many names of business, political and public life in the country, controlled for a number of felony acts such as illegal lending, dirty money laundering and fraud were found to be convicted. Many of them made use of the institution of the criminal conciliation and were released, undertaking in both cases the legal and economic obligation to make payments either of the guarantees or of the money - material conciliation reliefs under Articles 302 and 308B of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The question is simple and clear. Will the Minister give us the relevant documents certifying the amount and the total amount of the warranties received from the Greek State to date for the release of the sentenced persons, in accordance with Articles 302 and 308B of the Code of Criminal Procedure? In other words, we have to learn as a parliament and as a government if the sums of guarantees have been paid for those who have been released. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I am very grateful to Mr Kammenos for responding to my call for the shortest possible presence here, in view of an exceptional time-consuming difficulty that I have. I must say that this is certainly a serious matter and the same question had been asked before. Mr Kammens' question refers to the implementation of two main provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 302 and Article 308B, and, of course, he focuses, if I understand it, on the issue of establishing a warranty of a person and on the ability of the public to benefit from it. I would first like to say that I think we should concentrate on Article 302 because Article 308b concerns differences in individuals. So anyway, there is no financial benefit. As regards Article 302, I should like to make it clear that this provision concerns the payment of a guarantee as a restrictive condition for the interlocutor or court. There is provision for an arrangement which I do not need to read, Mr Kammenos knows it as well as I do. However, I have asked the competent judicial authorities to provide information on your question for the period from 1-1-2014 until today. I look forward to the answers, which are obviously not complete. However, I am already in a position to tell you: The most interesting and richest response came from the Administration and Operation of Reservation Shops, which shows that between 1-2014 and 29-2-2016 prisoners who made guarantees under Article 302 of the Code of Criminal Procedure are five hundred fifty. The Court of First Instance, which has responded, is a little more than the number of all I have addressed. They were able to answer eight just in court. In the answers it can be seen that there is a different intake of the matter by the various courts. Others refer specifically to piracy guarantees, sometimes generally in cash. In general terms, however, the answers given by the courts for warranties were all negative. Also, of the sixty - three prosecutors, thirty - six responded. Of these thirty ones have sent negative answers and only four have positive responses to the issue of collateral. I think there is a deficit, indeed. We would expect the implementation to yield more results, Mr Cammenén. I do not know whether there is an information issue or whether it is evaluation or valuation procedures that lead to this difficulty. In any case, I will continue the investigation for the rest of the first instances with a view to strengthening this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u50	Minister, thank you very much for your reply. The figures are indicative of the lack of years - not our own government - control and procedures for the structures of the courts, the prosecutors and - if you like - all the relevant ministries, even the Ministry of Finance. I think it is incomprehensible to have big businessmen, which we have seen in newspapers and front pages before 2014, that is, since 2009 and 2010, with EUR 2 million, with EUR 3 million, with EUR 5 million guarantee amounts and EUR 5 000 million of collateral guarantees, to be released for felony acts until they have been tried and these amounts cannot be crossed off the ground that they have been collected by the Greek State in whatever form, whether an instrumental check or a cash check or anything else. I would ask you and the Ministry's prosecutors and structures to carry out this check, because this money is the Greek people, and if some people have been released and have not paid the money, there is a fraud here and there is a criminal offence and those who have released them and those who have not collected them. We must not forgive anyone. The people are spending difficult hours, justice must be given equal treatment to all. If an unfortunate person needs to give 500 euros or 5 000 euros to pay a guarantee to get out and pay it, it is understandable and fair, but if a brawl is also to pay 5 million euros - and I am not talking about names for good reasons - or 500,000 euros, which are more than ten people I know at least, we have to see that they paid for them. And if they hadn't paid, I would ask for a thorough internal investigation to be carried out at the Ministry, to the prosecutors, to see whether and to what extent they were collected, because the sums were not collected and whether they were legal or illegally free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. The last point, raised by Mr Kammenos, is extremely serious. It has a criminal dimension if an exit has taken place without payment of the guarantee. So of course we, too, have to investigate it, and I will point it out. In any case, Mr Kammene, if you have any information that might help us in this investigation, you will give it to us in order to try and deliver justice and help the functioning of both the penitentiary and the criminal system in general. Besides, I hope that soon it will help to improve the recording and exploration of data, the development of the electronic data recording, which is one of the reasons for delays in the identification of data, which also relates to these guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The fifth question under number 550/16-2-2016 will be discussed in the context of a topical and urgent debate on the second question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vasilis Kokalis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the Evaluation Committee and the Committee of Independence under Articles 15 and 16 of the Code of Law-Making and the excessive delay of registration in the registrants of legal qualifications recognised by the IOTAP. The Minister will answer Mr Nikolaos Paradopoulos. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Committee on the Evaluation of the Code of Lawyers with at least two years' delay decided to register those who had applied for up to 10-9-2014. However, those from 10-9-2014 until today who have applied, unfortunately, are in hostage status and have referred them to the Evaluation Committee. We have a lasting, continuous, silent rejection of the request. The alleged implied rejection of requests for registration in the books of trainees of the legal schools of the Cypriot universities, Minister, have been given four decisions of the Third Section of the Council of State, which considered the implied refusal to register implicitly in the books of trainees. You ask whether it is the Government's intention to amend the relevant decision and, indeed, to add a proposal to the effect that any investigation is to be carried out at the same time as diplomas through IATPs. That's my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Red. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to thank Mr Kokkalis for his speedy attendance here. He specifically asked me to do so. His question was registered on only 22-2-2016 and, therefore, the data I have had to collect were collected briefly. In any case, because the matter is well-known, I can say at the moment: of course, the problem has so far been the delay in adopting the decisions of the Article 15 Committee. We have already gone through awaiting the adoption of decisions for the respective committee referred to in Article 16. We now have a decision and we can make a criticism of its content. However, Mr Kokalis, it is very difficult, in my capacity as I am, to criticise the content of the decisions. These are individual crises which fall within a competent body and I think the Minister cannot judge their content in particular. However, I can say the government's standing positions and, as far as the legislative objectives are concerned, that the principles to which these duties are assigned must be zealous, work intensively, quickly, because these are young people who are struggling for their careers and I think that delays are not allowed. I think that with regard to the criteria for adopting these relevant decisions, a relevant decision by the Council of State, 2617/2015, which actually provides criteria for the functioning of the Evaluation Committee. It's interesting and I can tell you a few words. The court had ruled on an application for registration of the Thessaloniki Bar Association. It considered that, when a Community national sought to allow him to travel to a Member State the compulsory exercise provided for by that State as a condition for the pursuit of the profession of lawyer and invoking titles acquired in another State, the competent authority of the host State must take account of the titles thereof, taking into account them in the context of an overall assessment. Of course, a reduction in consideration and a collective assessment give a degree of liquidity to the criteria for which a criticism can often be developed. Now, of course, what I think is the centre of gravity of your question is whether the delay in running the Article 16 Committee or in general the operation of the two committees at the moment shows that, in the interests of speeding up and effective implementation, we should have a reform. I think that the reform should be examined, either by ministerial decision or by regulation of superior regulation. However, this presupposes prior consultation with all those who contribute to the implementation of the institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Cocksucker has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. In short, Minister, three data, first of all, of Decision 2617/2015 of the Supreme Court, which considered the implied refusal to reject the request as non-legal, secondly, to have academic rights, but not to have professional rights and, thirdly, the fact that they are conspiracy and will be hostages enough, who will now give you the following question in April 2016: Is there an initiative in the Ministry’s thought within the next few months or months, given that in April 2016 are the tests for trainees?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Red. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. As I said before, there are thoughts of reforms. Perhaps the second committee, within the Article 16 Committee, is in need of assistance, numerical or percentage, the presence of academics in that committee. As you know, only lawyers participate in the first committee. I would, however, hesitate, Mr Papoutsis, for a reform that would take place at the last minute before the examinations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the next timely question, let me refer to a number of topical questions which are not to be discussed because of the blockade of Ministers. The first question under number 563/22-2-2016, first question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the abolition of double and triple pensions granted to MPs and members of local government, will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment. The fifth question, under number 553/16-2-2016, is a fifth timely question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning measures to ensure the cleanliness of the school units and the labour rights of cleaners and cleaners employed in the schools of the country, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, who is in Brussels. The first, with number 543/15-2-2016, a timely question for the second cycle of the Member of the Parliament, Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygeaki, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the response from the NRW of the project "Hraclio - Mesara road axis" and his delay in completion, will not be discussed due to a Minister's blockade. The second one, with number 548/16-2-2016, is a topical question by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgios Germenis to the Minister of Finance, on the "sale of Asteras Vouliagos from TEAD", not discussed due to a Minister's impediment. The seventh question, No. 534/15-2-2016, raised on the second question of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vasiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the parametering of the prices for the sale of electricity by the professional farmers - photovoltaic power stations owners, will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment. The tenth under number 466/1-2-2016 topical question by Attica MEP - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Cassiri to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "millions shared by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to the bankrupt parties", will not be discussed due to a Minister's blockade. Elected with number 408/18-1-2016, a topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the progress of the projects to make use of the former airport of the Greek Republic will not be discussed due to a Minister's obstruction. The twelfth, under number 426/19-1-2016, a topical question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the immediate reopening of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the reuptake of workers by WASTE SOLUTIONS, will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment. The tenth third, with number 429/19-1-2016, a topical question for the second question of the Athens MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the resolution of the problem of the "SSPIS" Group and the determination of the time schedule for the payment of the allowances to the beneficiaries, will not be discussed due to a Minister's blockade. The fourteenth under number 497/8-2-2016 topical question by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, Minister of Health, concerning health problems, serious deficiencies in intensive care units (IDUs) and the development of the National Transplant Organisation (EMO) will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment. The first with number 1944-15-12-2015 of MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the reduction of charges on the use of plastic money and transactions via e-banking, will not be discussed due to a Minister's impediment. The second question, number 745/38/2-11-2015, and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr Kim Glen, as Prime Minister, is not discussed because of the Minister's impediment. Finally, the third question by MP B' Athens, Georgios Amyras, Minister of Finance, concerning the procurement of banks for interbank transfers and card use will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for a minute, strictly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u64	All right, Mr. President. I tell you that for the last three months, since 11-1-2016, we are entering the third month, next week we will be on 11-3-2016 - I have tabled a question to the Minister of Finance, who is not coming to answer. I address you - you are Vice-President of the House - and I ask you with absolute honesty, what must be done to answer the Minister for Finance. It's three months. Last night the Minister spoke at a BBC event, he's not out of Greece and he's not coming to answer. Please tell me what must be done. I am talking about an investment, that of the Greek, which will bring tens of thousands of jobs, something that we know about and I fear that the government and Mr Tsakalots, who are not coming, are looking for a surprise. I hope they don't make the Greek hot spot! Mr President, I would like you to tell me - you are in the Chair now, I understand - what to do as a Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u65	Today at 15: 00, a Conference of Presidents has been scheduled. Repeatedly, there have been similar issues, such as yours, for questions that have not been answered, even in the time you put them in the quarter. Today, for example, about 50% of the questions are not debated because of a Minister's impediment. You have already heard the list I have read. You are right, like all the Members who ask the ministers to be here when their questions are put and asking for answers. This is an issue that should concern the government. As far as the Bureau is concerned, by extension the Conference of Presidents, we have repeatedly and in writing sent the relevant documents to the Government by means of the President of Parliament, of course, to the ministers, in order to present them with the timely questions. Furthermore, we can do nothing more than increase the pressure on the government so that the ministers can come and answer the current questions. You are right, like all the Members of Parliament, to all the groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u66	Is there another Minister who's been late for three months?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u67	Allow me. From what I have just been informed, during your speech, Mr Tsakalotos said to you - I do not know if it has been said so, but I have to convey it as I have been transferred - that all the unanswered questions that have so far been answered, which relate to the competence of his Ministry, directly - if I understand them correctly - will be collected in order to be answered as a whole. I'm transferring this to you. I don't know if that was the case with you. From that point on, we're not staying on this. We as the Conference of Presidents - and I repeat that today at 15: 00 we have a Conference of Presidents - will raise the matter. There's a representative from your party. After all, we all raise this issue and, I think, there is a consensus on this, namely, the way in which the government is pressing and the ministers coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u68	Mr. President, may I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u69	No more dialogue now. I think it was understood. You have tabled your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u70	Every time Mr. Tsakalotos does not come to the House, the day before his secretary calls my office and says: "I will not be able to go tomorrow. Let's get to know when he'll come next time."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u71	All right, Mr. Constantinople. I had to convey what the Services gave me, not only what the Minister's partners told you, but also what he wants to move, through us, to this House by the Minister himself. I think it made sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u72	Let's go see next time!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u73	We come to the ninth with number 530/12-2-2016 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on research and rescue in the Aegean Sea. The Minister will answer Mr. Theodores Dritsas. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we had a new challenge from Turkey, which issued NOTAM, in disputes the search and rescue area around the island of China, where the investigations were being conducted to identify the three officers of the AB 212 helicopter. Also, in the decision, by which the Greek Government authorised the Aegean control to NATO, it is clearly predicted that the ships of power towards the Single Research and Rescue Coordination Centre will be fully respected in terms of their action in the context of the operation. Turkey has been systematically trying to deport us from carrying out research and rescue in our area of responsibility since 1979, creating grey zones. You ask, Minister, who will exercise sovereign rights in the Greek area of responsibility, research and rescue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u75	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I consider it my duty once again - given that the question I have to answer relates to the tragic loss of life of crew members - to pay tribute to the memory of Lieutenant Anastasios Tolitsis, the governor, Lieutenant Constantine Panana, the co-government, and the Liberty Gospel, sailing in this helicopter. Eternal their memory and honor both of the Greek Parliament and of the Greek people! The question, as it stands, can only have at its core one answer: Who exercises sovereign rights in the Greek area? I'm stopping here. The sovereign rights in the Greek area are exercised by Greece without doubt and without any possibility of any questioning, whatever it may raise, to have a successful differentiation towards this basic concept. I would like to add that the exercise of sovereign rights, which each country - and ours - and the Armed Forces and the Security Body and the Port Authority and the entire state defends them, is not about whether anyone wants to question them. It's about how he defends them. I think that over time and also in modern reality, now with the responsibility of our government, but also in this particular case, the way the Greek Government has acted, the ministries and the agencies and bodies, no one can question that there was an absolute defence - not only defence but also exercise - of sovereign rights. It is not a theory - it is not a matter of this fact - but, in order to have a clearer approach to these things and not to raise concerns, even when each country will decide and how to exercise its sovereign rights, it is an element of its sovereignty. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] This is taught in all schools in the world. This is a key element of international law, because international relations have delicate balances, they have issues and parameters, which must be taken into account each time and it is not just a question of confidence and the Lebanese, which each country and every people must have. It is, above all, the proper management of a number of sensitive issues which include just as part of the sovereignty - I repeat - whether it will decide, when and how each country can exercise that sovereignty. So there are no issues. There is an issue of ambiguity in the question, who will exercise the sovereign rights of responsibility, research and rescue in the Greek area. Here, too, we need a clarification. The right to search and rescue is not in the exact terminology and meaning of what we call 'principal rights'. It is the responsibility of the State, it is also the responsibility of international conventions. Of course we are defending it, but it is the sovereign right, namely the protection of borders, territorial and national integrity, national independence, and research, rescue as a sovereign right to international law and practice. So we have to make a distinction in this too. However, there has been no gap here, as a matter of competence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u77	Minister, you have the ability to continue in your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u78	In more detail, Mr President, I shall return to my denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u80	There are two ambiguities not in the question, but in the government, and I want to be specific in what I say: 'Panos Kammenos, enikos.gr, 18-2-2016'. You know what he said? There was the great success: "It is clear in the Agreement..." - he means with NATO - that research and rescue centres will be their duties according to where their territorial waters belong." Someone must, however, inform Mr Kammenos that research and rescue has nothing to do with territorial waters, but with the Greek FIR, which coincides with the ICAO Convention. That's a diplomatic mistake. Also, your government's second major mistake relates to Article 28 of the Constitution: "To serve a great national interest..." - such as what you are trying to say about NATO's entry - "and to promote cooperation with other states, they can be recognised by treaty or agreement to international institutions with powers provided for in the Constitution. In order to vote for a law ratified by Parliament, a majority of 3/5 is needed.' Is he here? Has it been ratified? How does this deal exist? Constitutional diversion! As far as the area of responsibility is concerned and how we defend it, this is done in very simple ways - for which you are not directly responsible, there are previous governments - such as the Maritime Traffic Control Systems, the VTS and the maritime corridors. Reports have been made to the International Maritime Organisation to monitor in a peaceful manner, according to the International Maritime Organisation, the Aegean. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This is all in the drawer, and I know that very well. There was the plan to develop VTS throughout the Aegean Sea - there is until Sounio right now - and Turkey has just opposite Kos and from Samos. So the government needs to make it clear what it wants and what it wants. There are great ambiguities. At the moment, Mr. Kammenos questioned the Greek FIR and the Greek Center for Research and Rescue with his statement. At least, if he doesn't know, don't talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u81	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u82	On the occasion of your visit, and in your dentistry, I must once again applaud the positive participation of the Port Authority in the investigations to identify the crew members who were lost on that day, that evening on the island of China. The cooperation of the Navy, the other services of the Armed Forces with the Port House was excellent in this direction. The process after the air accident was coordinated by the Greek competent authorities and developed into an area bound by the civil aviation services. Having Turkey submitted NOTAM, it has not affected the evolution of the procedures at all, on the contrary there have been answers through diplomatic channels and protests and what the diplomatic protocol provides for. And the only competent agency for issuing ads was the civil aviation agency and what is provided for in International Law. Respect for Greek sovereignty in this investigation was absolute and in practice undeniable. To this end, and the Port Corps with the Single Research and Rescue Coordination Centre of the Coast Guard Headquarters will always act in accordance with existing legislation and international conventions. And each incident involving the protection of human life at sea within the Greek area of responsibility and providing not only rescue services but also maritime and air research, as defined by the legislation and as identified by the FIR Athens. These are the rules that were set out every day by the Centre for the Research and Rescue of the Port Corps in collaboration with the Hellenic Navy, the Air Force, the Armed Forces of the country. Now with regard to the issues of the recent agreement of NATO Member States on surveillance in the Aegean Islands. The agreement - which many of its points have not yet been clarified and is under way within the days, for precisely the technical issues need to be addressed - are the recognition, supervision and supervision of the illegal conflict in the Aegean Sea, in cooperation with the competent authorities. When an authority is to attempt, the Greek authorities will attempt within the limits of the sovereignty of the country and will not instruct others to attempt. This is the agreement with NATO and we have technical issues to look at. Besides, the day before yesterday that Turkey raised questions of questioning this agreement or of specific interpretation at the summit of the NATO Member States' Generals. And any attempt to shape another frame fell into the void. I think, therefore, that with knowledge and professionalism, both the Armed Forces and the Greek Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in our field of responsibility, the Port House, the Headquarters of the Port Corps, we also safeguard the individual issues and the entire exercise of sovereign rights or state powers as provided for by the international treaties and the laws of the Greek state. We are not going to get a minimum of this either qualitatively or to the extent of the companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the institution of the Parliament, sixteen students and students and an attendant teacher from the Hatzibei School. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Subsequent to the fourth under number 554/16-2-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Centre for the Health of Parenestium in the Regional Unit of Drama. The Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, will answer. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our question relates to the Health Centre in Paranesti, Drama, an area quite extensive, with great natural beauty and - I would add - thousands of people, several of whom are formerly old. At the same time in the same area, there is also an immigrant facility, in which, of course, the population varies, when it is a hundred, when three hundred, when six hundred. All of these populations, therefore, are covered healthly - in 'covered', I will add the word 'theoretical' and I will explain why - from the Health Centre in Paranesti. The word that can characterise the situation in this health centre - I am afraid of the rest - is the word'missiles'. There are deficiencies everywhere, in personnel, in medicines, in materials. I will only mention a few examples. The people of the region, if they need a radiological examination, will, of course, have to go somewhere else, move, and the distances are not so small. The general doctors there are only two. Children who need a pediatrician and need him every day can meet a pediatrician two - three times a month. Of the two drivers of the ambulance, one is on sick leave and, as you can see, a driver cannot on continuous shifts meet needs. In drugs, the situation is just as tragic. Suffice it to say, many times the patients themselves bring the materials with them. Pharmaceuticals received at this health centre since July. A request has been made to this effect in the 4th IP for the receipt of new medicines. They're still not injected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. Of course the area is in northern Greece and has very low temperatures in the winter months and even this heating is not even guaranteed. Our question is very specific. What measures will you and your Ministry take to meet staff needs and to provide adequate funding for the Health Center in Paradesti, in order to have the necessary medicine and material at its disposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u86	My dear fellow Member, the picture I have drawn from the information I have had from the service and from the 4th Health Region - I have spoken with its commander - is that there are obviously problems in the Paracentre Health Centre in Drama, to which you are referring. But these are the problems that one meets in the majority of the country's health centres. There are indeed shortcomings, mainly because of the departure of staff in recent years without replacement. Fortunately, we don't have many medical posts uncovered. There are five general doctors who serve. There's a pediatrician who has - from what I understand - a non-stable presence in the health center. He's probably going to Drama Hospital, too, to assist the hospital there. There is an empty regional medical post, which has been published in the latest February notice and is expected to be covered. Recently another regional medical post has been covered by a general doctor. Fortunately we have several general doctors in the positions of rural doctors, so this is an element of upgraded care. They are also pending earlier crises and we are willing to move on with two positions of curator II of the ESH - permanent doctors, namely - a general doctor and a biopathologist - microbiologist. The rest of the staff are marginal indeed. It's a total of eleven people. I agree that there is also the additional responsibility for the accommodation of refugees in the vicinity of the region. The effort we are making this year is specifically to place particular emphasis on primary care. Public structures are disorganized, especially in urban centres. There is a little better in the countryside than in the urban centres, but there are, of course, too many problems. We have ensured an additional allocation of 38m euros in the 2016 budget. We have proceeded to an EEA contract with all health regions, so that they can be recorded, charged and compensated for the operations of the members of the EEAS carried out in health centres. This will be an additional source of funding for health centres and for the primary public care structures of the EMCDDA. So we will have a greater capacity to meet needs, consumables and operating costs. As far as consumables and medicines are concerned, we have recently passed by legislative act just before the holidays, the possibility of health centres being provided with medicines from competitive procedures in the neighbouring hospitals. I imagine they know about it and the health center's officers have been informed about it. I really do not understand the difficulties in supplying medicines, which are not very large in health centres anyway, because health centres are not hospitalizing people. It needs a simple medicinal product to deal with emergency situations, regular medical services, etc. Also, a last step, which has been launched, is a cross-border "Interreg" programme of Greece - Bulgaria, which has submitted a proposal from the IV-Health Region and through which a renewal of the equipment of the Health Centre and the radiological machine with digital display and other machinery, deindustrials, etc. will be financed. Of course, the radiological laboratory will need at least one operator of a radiological machine to operate and meet the needs of the area. In the next allocation of permanent staff's posts, as soon as the 4K and 5K tender procedure is completed, we will look at making, in consultation with the HR, a targeted allocation to facilitate this intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u88	Minister, your answer did not reassure us. You have admitted, of course, that the problem is a general one. It's not just about the Health Center in Paradesti. In the question we ask, of course, why are we in all health centres, all public health centres, the answer is self-evident. It is because it is followed, to one or the other extent, that the previous policy, which is in line with the European Union's strategy, continues. I say this because you spoke a moment ago about the INTERREG programme, which will try to equip the Health Centre in Paranesti. But we all know very well that these European Union programmes help, try to trade and help the private sector penetrate public health units. Of course this programme is not excluded either. You talked about recruitment. You said it would happen. You said there are several general doctors. We won't agree with you. They're not that many. We know it's only two in that particular position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u89	There are four regionals...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u90	You said they'd be recruited. I don't know when these recruitments will be made. Until now, a number of hundreds have been announced, which, as far as I know, have not been done so far and, as far as I know, these recruitments for health centres are not planned. Finally, you also referred to the EEAS in your plan - something that is not the first time, of course, that you have said - which will take over the funding of the health centre as much as possible. It is within the framework of this strategy that I mentioned before, your Government, the European Union, for self-financed either through the insurance funds or through the patient's own, public health units, or they are called health centres or hospitals. In fact, I would like to remind you that in the recent multi-brand plan, the so-called parallel programme, a provision was adopted which enables municipalities and regions to finance these health units directly. We consider this to be a negative development. We are still insisting that a state that wants to say that it respects and meets the people's needs should ensure before all about the health of the people through the financing of the state budget. We don't see that happening. So people are struggling and we have transferred this anxiety, if you like, to have what they deserve not only in Paradesti but in all parts of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u92	My dear colleague, the people of the countryside rightly claim and demand better and upgraded care and you do well to transfer these requests. There's no question of that. Needs are too many, we know. But what I want to be absolutely clear about is that I do not accept your assessment that the same policy is going on. We have a very clear change in terms of funding the health system. For the first time, we have been blocking the downward trend and the constant cuts in the last five years, we have increased funding from both the state budget and social security. I told you in particular that in primary care we have added 38 million from the state budget. We, my dear colleague, believe that in this transitional phase, we cannot guarantee the synergy of state funding and the insurance system, whose budget is greater than the Ministry of Health's budget. It's 5.5 billion. What we are doing, for the first time, is public resources, social security resources invest in public structures and not just pay private providers. This is a very important qualitative change, as far as the health policy is concerned. There was legislative intervention in the past few days, I think, with a very clear position of universal coverage of the population and the elimination of health inequalities that existed because of uninsured people. There is no privatization, either. The contribution of public security, social security, is not a privatisation of the system, as is also not a privatisation of supplementary funding from European funds to cover and strengthen public structures. Of course, there is no attempt to depreciate the system. It is just as much with the recruitment that is being promoted, that the human resources which are lacking are being strengthened, which is tired and which has now been under great pressure in recent years and work and wages. I would therefore like to ensure that, through this strategy, we are waiting for a significant improvement in 2016, because this is the big problem today, from planning to realisation and to a significant change in the everyday life of both workers and, above all, citizens. That's the big bet for the government. There are difficulties, there are objective problems. The services of hospitals and health centres have suffered a disorganization in recent years, but I think it is our concern in this area to have a political priority, because it is of enormous importance both for social cohesion and for the dignity of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The third, with number 545/15-2-2016, a top-stage question of the Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulia to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKA, is not being discussed. Before entering the next timely question, let me announce the following: By letter to the President of the Parliament, Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from Monday 29 February 2016 until Wednesday 2 March 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u94	The House approved the requested permission. We continue with the sixth question under number 520/9-2-2016 on the reduction of the cotton production plan and the extension of the harvest deadline for the years 2014-2015. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Markos Bollaris. Here, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your response to my question, which concerns the problems that have arisen in the cotton crop of the previous growing season in Evros. The consequences of the great floods we have faced in previous years are known. Many times have been discussed, even in this Chamber, the consequences that have been caused either in settlements or in particular in crops, in Evros. One of these disastrous consequences of the flood and also of extreme weather phenomena that we had last year was the disastrous consequences for cotton farming. I'll give you some clues. Last year some two hundred thousand acres of cotton were cultivated in Evros, of which ten thousand acres were on dry crops and forty thousand acres on irrigated crops. We know that the cotton-growing sector is a particular national product, creates too many jobs and employs thousands of people. In Evros, therefore, during the previous growing season due to an ammonia on dry crops, there was a problem with cotton planting by about 20%. Most of all, however, in irrigated crops, we had problems in about forty - five thousand acres, where farmers had harvest problems, so that they did not collect the already reduced ceiling of 40 thousand acres. In many cases we have had zero production. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. My question is a very concise one. I convey the anguish and concern of the growers of Evros. We know that they are growers who are particularly concerned with their crops. Their anxiety, then, is that they will lose the associated aid to cotton farming. They've already lost the income from production. So my question is this: What are you going to do to protect these growers and help them not to lose the associated aid from hundreds of cotton growers in Evros? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Bolaris, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, the answer will be given not for actions which will be taken but for actions which have been and will be completed with the disbursements. In fact, we had a thousand five hundred eighteen cotton growers in Evros this year, of whom the thousand two hundred and eighty have delivered cotton, to the quota provided for it. There are two hundred and thirty-seven people left. In order to claim the associated, the Ministry contacted and requested the views of the two bodies dealing with the matter, namely OPEKPE and ELGA. I shall read the texts as they came in the official note asking for their positions and present them to the House. I'm reading the OPEKEPE final text. "OPEKEPE, therefore, for the control of the minimum yield of 40 kilograms per acre, will take into account performance in computer processing both personalised loss estimates per farmer and estimates of global losses of larger areas to be transmitted to us by ELGA to OPECE. If, for Evros producers who have not delivered any quantities of cotton congested in ginning undertakings, the ELGA sends us either detailed data with compensated quantities of production per farmer or losses rates in specific municipalities, and with this information, these producers shall meet the performance requirement, they shall benefit from the specific cotton cultivation aid.’; As you can see, this is where the loose ends with the ELGA. So, in this OPEKEPE requirement, following a service note from the Ministry, he knows us: "In the areas where sowing was in time, the development of cultivation was satisfactory. In the rest of the areas that had been flooded by the heavy rainfall, winter floods in 2015, and drainage was delayed, sowing became normal. The problem concerns the coastal regions and, in particular, the Municipal Unit. Due to late sowing, although producers made all the necessary crop care, cotton production was very low and in many cases up to zero. Reduction in cotton production in the coastal regions up to 100%.’ It follows from the combination of the two documents that the requirement that OPECE has to pay the associated payment is fulfilled by the investigation and the document sent by ELGA. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] So the answer to your question, "What action is the Ministry going to take?" is that the two organizations have coordinated themselves with the Ministry's official note. And the answer is positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Gara, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u99	Minister, thank you. But I would like it to be more specific not to me but to growers in particular. We must respond to them which of those who have not collected the plaque, are entitled to the associated aid - to be clear to the growers - and to what actions they must take themselves. On the occasion of this, I would like to stress that we need to start a debate and take action on the overall organisation and protection of cotton farming and production so that it is now competitive. However, I would like a clearer answer as to whether or not a producer remains outside the claim of the associated aid, as we know that the problems that have been created were because of force majeure and are not the responsibility of the growers themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u101	You will allow me to tell you that the answer was clear. OPEKEPE expressly states that since it has either personalised checks by ELGA for each of the two hundred thirty producers or an overall estimate that we have a disaster in an area - which is not caused by producers, but by force majeure - it will compensate. It is therefore a matter of coordinating ELGA Evros with the Central Unit - ELGA - Central Unit with OPEKEPE - so that there is a positive development, which I described earlier by reading the OPEKEPE document. It is therefore a matter of coordinating the two institutions which are bound up with these documents, which is why I have read them. They're binding documents. I would also like to say in this direction that we in Evros have had an issue we have been running for 15 years from the back. Every year we have floods. And every year comes the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Infrastructure, to pay tens of millions of dollars for producer compensation, for local government compensation, for the correction of dams, for the correction of irrigation projects, for a matter caused by poor water management from the neighbouring country. I would therefore like to tell you that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the recent visit we had from Bulgaria, raised the question of the proper management of water in Evros and Ardas. They're mature right now. Next week we will have a meeting involving the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Rural Development, that is to say, the co-chairman for international relations and the others - every year, the ministries are forced to cover compensation - so that we can solve the problem by dealing with it at the source, in synergies with the neighbouring country. It is very crucial to resolve a matter, because in the last 15 years we have spent every year in the House, in the ministries, in the region, in the counter-region, in the municipalities, in the GFCM, running behind to deal with the effects of the floods, and we have to solve the problem at the source. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Next is the 15th under number 524/9-2-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism regarding the Yunker package. In the timely question, the Minister will answer George Stathakis. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister, this is a well-known matter. There were some articles that were critical, if you like, about what our government is doing. So, depending on these publications, I wanted to meet here to record the Ministry's position in relation to the Juncker package. I will only read the question quickly so that we do not waste time and have time to hear the information from the Ministry. There have been many discussions and commitments expressed by the previous government on the Juncker package and not unfairly. This multi-advertised package is a response to the loss of investment by the European Union due to the crisis and aims at a leveraging amount of EUR 315,000 to EUR 320,000 000 000 for all countries. As far as we know, our country claims EUR 12 million, 000 million to EUR 15 million, 000 million to help its development prospects and help to complete many important projects, staging and not until now, which have been stopped due to a lack of resources. For example, the metro line 4, the electrical interconnection of Crete, the implementation of electronic transactions, invoices and others have been mentioned. We also know that the previous government had submitted a list of projects, which we supplemented, renewed and obviously made it better. That is why you ask, Minister - I do not read the rest - that in view of the economic crisis and the situation of our government and the effort that our Government is making to bring the economy up, why has the list of projects been delayed? When is it expected to be completed and what projects should it include? Secondly, when will the National Investment Bank be designated? Because it is a piece of development that will lever and help develop and use the capital of the Junker package, which will facilitate the cooperation of investors and the European Investment Bank. Thirdly, given that the previous government had handed over a list of proposed projects, which we have undone or corrected to adapt to existing priorities and needs by 2015-2016, we would like you to give us - if possible - a list of old and new projects, in order to have a clear public briefing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u105	Mr Kammene, thank you very much for the question, because there is an opportunity to clarify a number of issues on the Junker package, which has included a fantastic situation. The Juncker package, as you know, is based on two simple ideas: One idea is that there are some money that is leveraging with private money. That is how we reach 315,000 euros, assuming that leverage can reach what they aspire, sixteen, seventeen times. This is for discussion. The second idea of the Junker package is that because different countries in the European Union have different 'country risk', 'economic risk', an intermediate institution is coming, which is trying to absorb this risk and thus facilitating investment. That's the philosophy of the Juncker package. This started - to give dates - by Regulation 2015/1017/25-2015, which created the European Investment Fund, EFSI, the European Investment Agency and the European Investment Portal. The second decision immediately thereafter, on 22 July 2015, proceeds to the creation of the European Investment Project Gate and the definition of its technical specifications. For this portal, what is envisaged is to create a primary database of investment projects, so that the Gate will then attract the interest of the investors, who will undertake to assist in these projects. That is why the committee proposes in each Member State - initially to public bodies, but the Gate is open to private investment, obviously, and that is its peak - to register about twenty-five projects. It is expected to start in the first quarter of 2016, in the current quarter of 2016. We, as you know, had received a large list of projects from the previous government. This list did not produce any interesting project, because it was a list of projects, which were not even at pre-study level - were projects which were recorded, I do not know from which bodies - and which was not at any level a mature project process of which we could choose the twenty-five that we would be in the current process. We have sent documents to all the ministries - by the end of February - to the supervised entities and to individuals, and we inform them of the existence of the European investment project portal. We call as an emergency to select projects which are, if possible, mature, so that at the end of March we can put up the twenty-five projects which are at the most mature and likely to attract private investment. A footnote: You know that this type of work cannot be public works. They must either have a common PPP of some form or be purely private investment. In relation to the Investment Bank now: the Juncker package does indeed encourage the existence of an umbrella, a bank, namely, development, investment or other, which can coordinate and manage these resources. Unfortunately, Greece does not have such a bank. There is, on the government's side, a strong conviction and we are preparing the bill to move the EIF into a development fund capable of playing that role. So, one thing is that. The need is given and we must move quickly. The second positive point is that the European Investment Bank itself, which manages the Juncker package, took the initiative to open up an annex to Greece in an effort to encourage direct contact with private investment financing directly to the European Investment Bank. We believe that this is a very positive development. Along with EBRD and other, parallel financial institutions, a range of options is being created, which can be very useful in mobilising domestic production and investment forces in order to make use of the Junker package and to reach a plan that is sustainable, realistic and will bring substantial benefits to the Greek economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it was extremely useful and the analysis and the evidence you gave us. One question I have to ask: is evolution - because it is too important for the Greek economy - dependent on us or on the circles of the European Union? So if we have the twenty-five projects on 31 March, and we are all ready - with the faasibity studies, with our packages, with everything, and I am not talking about our relationship right now in the negotiation, I speak clearly as a funding package - will depend on some other factors? And if we know them, who will they be? And what else do we have to do as a government, so that we can help? Secondly, I would remind you that Mr Hatzidakis had created - and with very severe criticism - my own, during those years as a citizen - the fund in Luxembourg for the MEMEs, for small and medium-sized enterprises, which also received funds. He put 350,000,000 in Greece, 100,000 Germans, and then the French came. We didn't have the majority. We didn't know who they're funding. Has this Luxembourg fund helped? Is that an inhibitor? Does it help? Is it working? I don't know what's going on, because that was an investment tool. And I think we should see if it has not worked or stopped operating or operating with some other rules, because it exists. It could help or mutate. Regarding the question of investment: when Mr Katininen had come and had a very interesting debate here, in the Senate, I had raised the issue - and he had agreed to our own debate - whether the Greek projects, because the country is in a 'country risk' specific, 3B, and its banks cannot be two steps above 'country risk' - this is a world-famous one - they could be because they are private with EBRD, with EBI and with a Yunger pack to get out of 'country risk' and call for the funds, because a project can be 'alpha' and be financed with project bonds out of the risk if you want the country. And he agreed, because only in this way will we draw funds - not only Greece, and other countries - and we will take the project out of the country. That is, for example, a road concession, which has huge or very good IRRs and brings a lot of money and very rapid depreciation of the investment, in three or four years, cannot be junk his bond. It must be very good. That's what the investor knows, and it's usually shameful against the country, because he tells you I have a great deal of risk, so his negotiation is very difficult or bad and, if you like, from a strong point of view with the country. But if the project comes out of the country and produces money itself - an airport, a road, a port, infrastructure or the interconnection of Crete with the underwater cable - this project makes money because it is purely developmental and infrastructure. So I told Mr. Katininen to get the projects out of the country, to be able by themselves - as institutions - to make money for investment, along with those of the Yunger package and the European Investment Bank, together with the Greek banks that have the "know how" in the "project financing", and with the Greek chambers that have the special people to work. In other words, we have a very good team in Greece and our minds will stay here to work for these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Cammene. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u109	I'd like to add two things. This mechanism is intended to absorb the ‘country risk’ depending on the nature of the project and the data, its ability to attract private capital, notably through the participation of the CIB and an intermediary, which offers the guarantees by which the country risk is impaired. This is to be applied. We need to see exactly how it works, whether it is satisfactory or it needs additional forecasts to be able to eliminate the 'country risk', which is - I repeat - the basic philosophy of the Yunger project. Regarding the second, for the IFG: IFG as you know it was designed by the previous government and had three pillars. The first pillar was loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. In this pillar 400 million - perhaps more - were committed, I do not remember exactly the figure - which, however, was absorbed. In other words, this money was channelled through the EIF to the Greek banks - the four systemic banks - and some in cooperative societies and this amount has closed its course, the first pillar. It will simply have a recycling mechanism and when loans are returned to this facility, the bank will be able to refinance new loans. The second and third pillars have not begun. It is a question of agreement if these pillars begin. We, as a government, are open to the beginning of the second pillar, which concerns the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises, and we are in advanced discussions both with the German and French side, in order to see how this can be started. We also have a study on this. It takes a semester to 'kick off' this point. So, we are in advanced discussions to continue this pillar. We have all agreed that the third pillar will not begin. Municipal projects, etc. It's very difficult to move forward. So the issue we are discussing is the beginning of the second pillar and we think it can offer - especially share capital - a positive step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty one student and two educational sessions from the Erasmi Greek-German School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the eighth question under number 539/15-2-2016 on the second question of the new Republic MP, Eleftherios Aygeakis, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the "leaving" of investments. The Minister will answer the question, George Stathakis. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, before I begin my question, I would like to ask ourselves what the situation is in our country. Unfortunately, she's the worst possible. The government has lost control over all fronts, particularly in refugees, but also in rural ones. There is no economic policy, there is no negotiating strategy, there does not seem to be any closure of the evaluation. The country is again threatened with liquidity and funding problems and society is in revolt. Mr. Mitsotakis, the entire New Democracy has stressed many times that the Greek economy, in order to recover and emerge from the vicious cycle of recession, needs at least 100 billion euros in investment. On the contrary, Minister, with your choices you have destroyed a 2014 acquis, a climate of real stability in which the creative forces of the place can mobilise and take advantage of the endogenous growth potential from deposit security to the production of goodwill through innovation. Minister, I will speak to you with information and I would ask you to do the same in your reply. The hostile policy pursued by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government for the private sector and private investment has not only been expressed by many members of the government, but has also been practically reflected, as in the case of the Skouries. According to the Bulgarian National Income Agency, some sixty thousand Greek companies have been transferred to Bulgaria for the last three to four months to avoid bureaucracy, capital restrictions and high taxes in our country. Unemployment, Mr Minister, despite the inaccurate information you have given recently to the public, regretts, with our country, that, according to Eurostat, the first rate of unemployment, which is around 25%, and that of youth unemployment, which is 49.5%, is at stake. In fact, one out of four active citizens is unemployed in both young people. Investments, the driving lever of growth, not only do not come, but government policy prevents them. It is estimated, Mr President, that ten thousand jobs will be lost annually if the hostile climate is not reversed by investment. The image in the private sector is also tragic. According to an investigation - I submit data from the EBRD - in 2015 it closed negatively, eliminating any progress made in 2014. Tragic is the year that also passed for exporting companies, as 59% increased the percentage of exporting enterprises which in 2015 did not have an export activity. At the same time, you have served in an attempt to take over the state. Minister, I ask you: How many businesses have been closed and how many have been transferred abroad in 2015? How many investments were made in our country in 2015? Please, I want evidence, not general. Has an assessment been made of the investments that were not actually implemented? What cost at economic and social level, if you have wondered? What are you doing to create a pro-investing, economic climate in our country? And because in a previous timely question you have answered in general and vaguely - you are also familiar with it - that there are many foreign investments that have come to our country, please very much if you have a document, put it down, because your services do not have anything, even though I have sought it since your position here at the Stephen of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Augenakis. Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u113	There is rather a common belief that Opposition has made the idea of catastrophe and unspeakable claims. This is the permanent pattern with which it has been moving over the last year, since there is a different government and that catastrophe, as well as unspeakable claims are very typically reflected in today's question. Let me remind you that the fall in GDP by 25%, the decline in unemployment from 10.3% to 27%, the deinvestment which reached 64% from 2007 to 2014, the reduction in available income by an average of 30% and the decline in government debt to 179% of GDP took place in the period before the country was governed by SYRIZA. So, from January 2015 to the end of the year, the present government is excluded from receiving this data, causing such a great catastrophe, or I don't know what other Anti-Policy suggests. But allow me to substantiate the indescribable allegations of opposition, whether it relates to leaving businesses or to the extent of the recession, disinvestment or the lack of investment. And because the evidence is relentless and it is data, it is with this that we need government and opposition to agree. We can disagree on many things, but we cannot disagree on the evidence. Let me quote some of these data. First, business out of Bulgaria. We're hearing terrible numbers. 'Sixty thousand left Bulgaria'. Allow me to submit the information of the President of the Hellenic Bulgarian Chamber of Northern Greece, Mr Christos Kazatzzis, who notes: "After the capital controls there is a mobility of bank accounts. It is characteristic that Greek companies are trying to tackle this problem as a priority. A number of introductory or other companies, due to the failure to order or pay orders, were initiated by opening accounts in the neighbouring country.’ From this information we received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of our country, on the total number of Bulgarian companies in which a Greek legal person is involved - I can give you the exact information by 31 December 2014 - it appears that the total number of Greek companies in Bulgaria was eleven thousand, nine thousand of which do not show a single employee. Also, six thousand of the eleven thousand have zero activity. These were the data at the end of 2014. For 2015 there were about two thousand new registrations - business registrations, which all do not show an employee, did not cause the creation of a single job in Bulgaria and do not include a transfer of production or commercial activity. They share the information of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with what I have just mentioned, namely the comment and analysis of the President of the Hellenic-Bulgar Chamber. The situation for the sixty-thousand wave is therefore misleading. I repeat: eleven thousand are Greek interests, nine thousand do not show an employee, in 2015 we had two thousand new entries, primarily concerning - I repeat - transfer or opening bank accounts in the neighbouring country. That's the data. Let's go to the second issue of the destruction and closure of businesses. As you know, the recording is given. Over the past five years of the memorandum we have had a reduction of two hundred and fifty thousand businesses. But let's take the 2015 GEME for the year we're interested in: Deletes 25.052, Recommendations 29.238. There is more than three and a half thousand companies registered in relation to those deleted. With regard to the number of enterprises, which carried their headquarters abroad in 2015, all businesses - I repeat - are 534, so the idea that there are thousands of companies that have created this data - based on GFCM data - confirm this. Unemployment data, ELSTAT. I repeat them for a pluralist time. I wonder why the government is reintroducing them with regard to the marginal reduction in unemployment in 2015. In 2010 it was 13,9, 2011 was 20,2, 2012 was 26, 2013 was 27,7, 2014 was 26, first reduction. The reduction continued in 2015, 24,5. So I wonder why the unemployment issue is coming back. We recognise that there has been a first reduction in unemployment in 2014 by 1.7. One-and-a-half percent is the decline in unemployment based on ELSTAT in 2015. We're going to the crucial theme of investments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u114	Minister, you've already exceeded six minutes. You're in protology. You'll have time later, in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u115	Good. I'll answer for the investments later. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u116	No, I'm not interrupting you, I'm just pointing out that we've already exceeded six minutes of your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u117	I shall therefore refer to the full list of investments made in Greece, according to Enterprise Greece. It's 7.9 billion. The 6.5 are banks and 1.4 is a detailed list of companies that have bought or invested or invested foreign firms at this time, covering 1.6 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u119	Minister, of what you have just told us, I understand that you are the Minister of Development in another country, not, of course, Greece. You referred to the companies that have been transferred to Bulgaria and referred to some data. I would remind you and point out that I mentioned specific elements arising from the Bulgarian National Income Agency and you are doing what you are not listening to. You also referred to a list of investments that your services refused to present to me. Please testify to her in the Minutes to receive her immediately afterwards. Half the truth, Mr Stathakis, is a great lie and you as a government consciously lie, as now. You have established a double rhetoric, the so-called tough negotiation with the troika and after you have exhausted all the time margins and after you have raised all the problems, you are driving, Mr Stathakis, to accept the positions of bad partners and lenders in full. I understand you. The dilemma of the government and Mr. Tsipras is existential. In order to be able to offer the country and the economy the conditions that will change this image, you must confess your failure, but that is not enough. You should join the only secure political direction that you've been possessing as my internal enemy, with your unscrupulous rhetoric and your fierce lies, which you are now continuing. More than that, before I enter the very important issue of strategic investment, which I imagine you will be able to respond more thoroughly to your second-guess. Minister, I call for a statement from your staff. With 'fill', Minister, there is no growth. The government's "multiple" is the raw assumption that you are simply implicated in the management of power and nothing more. With regard to strategic investment, with the laws of the previous Samara government on strategic investment, our country has made maximum use of investment opportunities and has incorporated significant investment projects into the development law, while it has attracted a significant number of investments, which have ultimately been described as strategies. In particular, Mr President, three major tourist investments amounting to 1.4 billion. These are the following projects: Loyalward, Itanos Gaias, complex tourist development at the northeastern end of Crete, on the peninsula of the Municipality of Sitia, 268m euros. Pravita Estate Holding, complex tourist development in Halkidiki, EUR 726 million. Dolphin Capital Kilada Hills, development of complex tourist investment in the Argolida valley, 418 million euros. And I ask you, Minister: what investments, in detail, has your Ministry, in your own name, attracted the government to join the law on the implementation of strategic investments? Please tell us specifically. Let go of the anointings, that's enough, that's enough. 0 O What stage is the permitting process of investments that the previous government has attracted? I have mentioned examples. Have you brought even a euro investment in the country? When will you finally bring in the long-conscious development law? When the programming period 2014-2020 is over? Is that the attitude of a country that is thirsty for investment? Minister, and I conclude with this, while the real economy and the private sector have been in vain for months for some of your Ministry's few initiatives to alleviate and support the productive sectors of the Greek economy, instead of saying when and what amounts will be channelled into the real economy by the new NSRF, you are preparing another anti-development measure, that is, a new extraordinary contribution. While the Government of New Democracy had reduced the exceptional contribution by 30%, the current SYRIZA-ANEL conflict is about to reload the bill with new taxes. We are proposing to strengthen investment and restore the economy: fiscal adjustment with different budgetary policy, market reforms, competition, licensing and, of course, insurance, strengthening the banking system with a solution to the'red' loans and attracting deposits, encouraging business investment and investor protection. Minister, at last trust in the private economy. While you are trapped in the bipolar behaviour presented by your government, it is not unfortunately a matter for Greece to bring about a euro for foreign investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u120	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u121	It really needs the nerve of New Democracy to talk about private investment, when in February 2015 at the Ministry of Development there were two development laws with six thousand three hundred investment projects signed between 2004 and today, with a debt of the state to private investors about 5.5 billion euros and with 1 billion euros in the fund, which Euro-Commission had frozen for corruption purposes of the Ministry's services. So money to investors zero! This is the work of the New Democracy in private investment: infinite approvals, inability to pay, a possibility of long-term management of bureaucratic and other, money to private investment those that were made within the crisis zero. Mismanagement, weakness, zero support for private investment. This is the work of the New Democracy. What did we do? We dug out the 1.2 billion euros. We mobilised the NRP within the year. We paid maximal payments to old investments. We are also starting the great change for all investments in old development laws. Firstly, next week in the Ministry's next bill we will give them the planned extension. Those who complete will continue their investments. Secondly, we are putting an evaluation mechanism that will speed up the assessment of investment from two years to six months. Thirdly, we are simplifying the rules to the old development, and fourthly we commit resources so that investors can be paid. That's the data. Secondly, with regard to the strategic investments you mentioned, the two of the three have been implemented by the present Government. The one approved strategic investment, KERAMIA, has been integrated into Chios and there are at the moment three in the process of 'Enterprise Greece' to be integrated into the framework of strategic investment. Inaction, therefore, does not appear to characterise the present government. Third and basic, I present to you the whole list of foreign investments in Greece for 2015. I repeat, this is the list of 'Enterprise Greece'. It has about fifty foreign investments in Greece, direct, takeovers and mergers. [[At this point, the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I hope and hope that with this data the New Democracy will recognize, at least, the elementary things, that your management work was not the best in relation to private investment, and secondly that, as on all other issues, the New Democracy is a step backwards. We have signed a new agreement much better than the one that existed for our country. We are following a roadmap which brings stability, security and above all a real recovery in the economy with social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty two students and apprentices and two educational sessions from the Erasmio Hellenic German School, second section. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now we will discuss the seventh under number 560/20-2-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the management of the funding of the Greek Open University through the NSRF programmes from the previous administrations of the Foundation. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you remember when we met at the cut of the open university pie. He was the chairman of the committee, you, our president, Mr. Leventis, and other students. The president himself said that the university did not exploit 18 million euros from the NSRF as the final beneficiary. The Open University was funded by its inclusion in the Priority Axis 7 of the Operational Programme "Education and Lifelong Learning" by the NSRF in 2007-2013 with the co-financing of the European Union, the European Social Fund and from national resources through the Public Investment Programme. So I want to ask you, Minister: Has the EAFRD been managed in relation to the management of the funds of the Act entitled ‘Greek Open University’, which was integrated into the EAFRD 2007-2013? And if it has been done, do administrative or criminal responsibilities arise? Secondly, why does the Management Committee not carry out management control, perhaps by violating the rules of the Open University? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say to you, Mrs Megalonikou, that the board of directors of the "Greek Open University", under the current legislation, cannot do the same management, because it is contradictory. He can't control himself. For reasons of transparency and transparency, there are other institutions that can do this and are, as you know, the Committee on Budgetary Control, the European Commission, the IAEA, etc. At the same time, it is known that the National Coordination Authority, the Management Authorities, the Audit Certification Authority, etc., the Ministry of Finance's Public Investment Directorate can carry out technical assistance actions relating to programming, etc. What the adventing management committee, which managed the programme and carried out it, should do, would be to make an evaluation report. To make an evaluation report in two phases, at the beginning of the implementation of the programme, namely how to implement the programme, and then on the impact that this programme will have. I mean, if there wasn't the program, what would happen etc. The adventing board has done nothing of this. That concludes the programme without having absolutely any evaluation, what it should have done. Of course the institutions to which I have referred and to evaluate the programme, to see what has happened and what has not been done there, if there are responsibilities, of course, will be attributed. The other thing I would like to say is that these provisions that we passed last Saturday, which were voted on to Mr von Wogau. 4368, are precisely provisions aimed at modernising the structures and operation of the Open University. You know very well that it's a university with peculiarities compared to conventional universities. It is a university with a large number of students who pay tuition fees, with small teaching staff, forty - eight members of the board of directors. In addition, distance learning is a peculiarity and GDP is one of the eleven universities throughout Europe that have such a function. The provisions that we have passed in this law therefore aim to guarantee the democratic functioning of the university and the process of its self-determination. That is why, as I said the other day and I will repeat it, the first and most important thing is the institutional armour of the university, and that is what we have been through in his provisions. 4368. Institutional armour means, above all, the university's internal rules governing its operation. The second thing we did for the first time, while it works for twenty years, is that the teachers in the board of directors, the Quaestors in the board of directors in the county, and for the first time the Ministry has appointed two of the LAG members to participate in the Management Committee, namely to be in the Management Committee. I stress these, because there are some reactions from teachers that the NSA has the hugging of the Ministry, etc. For the first time after the provisions we have passed, the Ministry is starting to move away and leaves the current administration, in which the Ministry has absolute confidence, to build the institutional framework for teachers to take on their university at some point. The other thing I would like to say, which shows that the Ministry is moving away, but that it is institutionally shielding the PSC, is that there is a possibility of abolishing the draw and that it is the first university to decide on how many students and how it wants to introduce them into the university. The Ministry no longer defines these anymore. I would also like to say that the Special Account, the famous ELKE, is also left at the university and not at the Ministry, no longer has the Ministry's control. The last one, which shows the university's possibilities, is that, thanks to the administration and in cooperation with us, it is opened up in new partnerships with other universities, ensuring and exploiting this university's specificity, the distance learning it has, which is the only one we have in Greece. That's all for now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you have partly covered me with control. I would like to ask, however, whether the new administration, since it cannot carry out an assessment, should there not be an institution or audited, such as other undertakings, by auditors? It's an operation, will the commanding officer expect to do the evaluation on her own? Clearly it must be checked by sworn auditors. I think so. It should also be able to control the revenue and the money and everything. In this respect, it does not cover me that the administration will do its own control, either for the past or for the future. Also, do you think only seven people in command are better than being more, for example, forty-eight? I respect - and this is pleasing - that it goes away from the Ministry of Education's arms and goes towards segregation. About how long will it be? Will it last another ten years, or will the time be shorter to be forced to be in this surveillance? Also, are teachers involved in the administration, but should it not take part, even without making decisions, and a part of the student's or graduates' association? Even if they don't give their opinion. Just take part in the decisions and monitor the administrations. Do you think those appointed have better prospects or have larger supplies than making a choice with contest procedures for the administration of the university? That's what I wanted to ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u129	First of all, as far as the NRP is concerned, it has just been closed. He closed in December. In planning the new Director is, of course, to ask for control of the NRP, what happened with the NRP, etc. What I said, however, is that the outgoing commander should have an evaluation, that is, by closing a project, how this project was implemented, what had all this effect. We do that all of us who have taken, from time to time, programs. That's not what happened, but the new commander will proceed to this. As to the autonomy of the university, that is exactly what we have done with these provisions, so that we can proceed with the self-determination of the university. There's a route. For twenty years, previous governments, while there have been laws providing for his self-determination, while they say the conditions have been met, at the last minute and by the Ministry of Education, but also by the legal adviser of the OSH itself, they said it is not the time to make a self-determination. Therefore, it needed institutional regulation and the university's own rules of procedure. It is what we anticipate with these provisions. I can't tell you it'll happen in a month or two. However, we are not in it to delay, which is why we are broadening the administration with the members of the IGC, which are involved. As regards students, the students participate in the teams set up by the curriculum, they participate in the teams for the annexes opened by the PSC. It could, of course, be greater their participation. However, what we are doing now, with the encouragement of the governing committee, is to be given at a time, like the other students and these students who pay, and to be authorized for museums, the same as the other students from other universities. But I would like to highlight one thing, Mrs. Big Economics. The SPD is a special university. The experience we have from other European open universities is that they operate in a mixed system. I will tell you that it is fifteen - sixteen thousand undergraduate students, fifteen thousand postgraduate students, we have at the same time forty-eight LAG members and a thousand seven hundred, about, collaborating teachers and a hundred sixty administrative staff. I should like to stress here that these administrative officials have not made sure for twenty years that they have a stable employment relationship with the university. And the commander and we in November were found to end the project contract they had in December and not to know what to do. We've finally succeeded. So imagine university without command. All these problems will be solved and the university will become autonomous. We have no purpose either as a Ministry of Education or as a commander to keep a university like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Minister. And we enter the third with number 562/22-2-2016 topical question by MP Aetolokarnania of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the dissolution or transfer of the University Departments of Agrinio to Patras through the movement of members of the LAG. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. Mr Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u131	Madam Minister, the University of Western Greece was founded in 2009. It was an old-fashioned, universal and time-consuming demand from Aetolokarnania. Its purpose was to respond to the nature of the prefecture, such as the rural economy, the promotion of agricultural products, the management of the environment and natural resources and the promotion of cultural goods and new technologies, thus forming a pillar of development for the prefecture and, more generally, for higher education. And yet on one night with the project "ATHENA" the University of Western Greece was abolished, without evaluation, without taking into account the reasons for its establishment. In the past, therefore, the marketing department for agricultural products, while the rest were administratively integrated into the University of Patras. In Agrinio there was only the seat of the departments, although it was a universal request - as I said - to maintain the autonomy of the University of Western Greece and strengthen it. That was my position then. The result, of course, is well known. The University of Western Greece was lost for Itolo-Carnania. Madam Minister, you, SYRIZA, both election and post-election, were against the "ATHENA". You have even committed yourself to restoring the failures and injustices of the project at the time. It is therefore time to do so. However, a year ago the Congregation of the University of Patras decided to transfer the three university departments from Agrinio to Patras, on the pretext of reducing the funding of the University of Patras. All the local society of Agrinio and the Prefecture of Eotolokarnania was mobilised. Sustainable solutions were proposed. The issue came to Parliament twice, where I myself developed the reasons for the stay and support of the three university departments in Agrinio, initially to the Deputy Minister, Mr Kourakis, in the plenary of Parliament, who committed himself to strengthening and not weakening the departments and then with a timely question to Mr Balta. At that time, Minister Baltas in reply pointed out that he disagreed with the decision of the Conference of the University of Patras and stated that the Ministry would not ratify it. So we had the continuation of the three university departments in Agrinio. However, after a year, no action has been taken by the Ministry to strengthen the departments. On the contrary, we have drunken actions that lead to the dissolution of the sections of Agrinio through weakening by teaching and other scientific staff. Thus, in the last year nine VDU moves were approved to other universities, while four more moves have been under way. So, Minister, we're talking about total weakening. So I ask you: does the Ministry intend to prevent and in what way, the wave of travel from the University Departments of Agrinio? Do you have in your design their further development? Do you intend to develop and examine the re-establishment of the University of Western Greece? This is the universal demand of both Aetolokarna and Central Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u132	Mr Anagnastopoulou has the floor for her prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Constantopoulos, what can I say now? To say, "The house of the hanger doesn't speak of rope"? Let me say that we were again accused of being ideologists, as anti-reformists, as anti-modernists when we were on the streets for the "ATHENA" project? Because I'm the same university, I'll say it. A University was founded in 2009 and closes in 2013. If that is rational, if that is reform, I do not know what else to say. I have stressed many times from this position lately that the harder one has to open a section, another so difficult it must be closed. Imagine in a university what should be done if it has to be difficult to open and close hard. Without any prediction, without anyone knowing how this university will go, it would open up in the air and then close. But let me come to this and to what concerns not only you and the society there. And our own MP, Mr. Boredos, and other MPs have come many times and found me. What the "ATHENA" project has, apart from merged, changed, closed without any study at all, was that in the case of the University of Western Greece and the departments, which left like this and which are actually owned by the University of Patras, they have the self-employed, Mr. Konstantopoulos. No minister can intervene - and the basis of the law, which can be retired from part-session to part-session by teachers, if it has been three years, etc. - and say "no, you won't do that, you won't do that." Nevertheless, you have just informed me - and you and Mrs Triantafyllou and others - that this is the case, I spoke to the Dean of the University of Patras and told her that it is not possible, because these departments have been left in Agrini, that these departments must work and cannot be done undergroundly, my dean promised, that it will not allow any further transfers. On February 18, the Senate of the University of Patras made a unanimous decision that it would not allow for transfers from Agrino to Patras. In addition, I should like to tell you that only three transfers have been implemented, the others have frozen and frozen for that reason. We have no intention of undermining at least as a ministry. But what I would like to say and stress, Mr. Constantopoulos, why are you asking me if the University of Western Greece will open up is that we will try. But you know, you all know, and I'm not gonna lie to pet ears, how hard it is to open a university. If with these three sections - and we have to study it, and that is why national dialogue is taking place - it will be possible for this university to be sustainable again, we will be the first to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u135	Minister, I would first remind you that I am a Member from 1-2015, but then my resignation had disagreed vertically and passed the "ATHENA", if you remember, with a presidential decree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u136	I didn't say that about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u137	But today you are the continuation of the previous government. So you decide. And that's why I think you're going to dare, and you're finally going to take a class at the University of Patras, which requires here and now the transfer of the university departments to Agrini. Minister, I have indiscriminate evidence that, behind the moves of the PPC members, there is an intent for some to lead to the closure and the closure of the three university departments of Agrinio and to transfer them to Patras. I shall therefore present the following to you in the Minutes for full information: Firstly, the VETs of the movements. Secondly, the agenda for meetings of the Environment and Natural Resources Management Department, where on 19 January and 12 February the travel wave is clearly recorded. Thirdly, the detailed description of the laboratory equipment of the University Departments of Agrinio worth EUR 3.5 million, which has been purchased in recent years through the NSRF. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let me stress here that, together with the equipment already in place by the departments, its total value now reaches EUR 10 million - equipment which, together with scientific human resources, contributes significantly to the development of the three sections. So all it takes is to strengthen them further. Let me point out that the two of the three university departments are both the only ones in Greece and contribute to the development of the agricultural sector, which is our bet. And here is the question: Why does the Ministry consent with its silence to such manipulations? Remind me and make sure the department had excellent performance. In just six months the Research Committee of the University of Western Greece managed twenty files, of which eighteen concerned research programmes with a budget of about 2 million euros. What I am referring to is, of course, elements which can be checked in the Committee of Research at the University of Patras, where the dossiers have been transferred. Madam Minister, the Municipality of Agrinio has put every possible solution to strengthen the departments at the table. And the Municipality proves it in practice, giving two school buildings of ten thousand square meters already free of charge. The University of Patras has also been awarded seventy - eight acres to the old airport for building facilities. A study has already been carried out on building facilities using the PPP method. And here I would point out that the Region of Western Greece has already approved its participation in financing. Madam Minister, support and strengthen the three university departments of Agrinio so that they can continue to operate. However, I would like to point out that this is the time for legislative intervention for the establishment of a School at the University of Patras based in Agrini, where the three university departments will be subject, with independent administration and funding directly from the Ministry of Education. However, by closing and evaluating the events that have taken place all this time and the weakness of the University of Patras, which said that for academic and economic reasons it cannot support the three university departments in Agrinio, I suggest that you dare and re-establish the University of Western Greece based in Agrinio, which is a provocative and universal request from Itoloakarnania and Central Greece, as I said. However, it will also be a unique development solution so that in future it can function as a reception area and other parts in the prefecture with an emphasis on research and innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u139	I'll be very brief. Mr Kostantopoulos, you are taking part in the national dialogue and this issue of the map of IGC will be raised anyway. At the moment, as is the situation and given the self-interest of the Supreme Institutions, all we have achieved - and here Mrs Rector has worked with us - was with this decision of the Senate that I told you to freeze the procedures for the transfers. I don't know how much FEC you have, but I don't think you have more than three. They froze - and that's what I asked her to do - until we see what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u140	Repeal then, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u141	That's the Senate's decision. I'm the only intervention I can make is to recommend something. But I cannot impose on the University of Patras what it will do to be honest. The second, Mr Constantopoulos, is this: you know I'm not one of the people who come in here and I'm starting to blame what you did, what you didn't do, but because I'm a university I knew what was going on with the "ATHENA" project. I knew this was all crazy stuff. And what I'm telling you is it's hard to close a university, because it's hard to open, I mean it. Nevertheless, what we are studying all the time - and I hope that the national dialogue will end up there - is indeed in relation to the needs of local society - of local as a centre, but with scope - and where we consider it to be the centre of productive reconstruction to be the highest institutions. The area, because it is a large area - it is not the only Agrini - would be one of these areas, which could be done. This is a matter and there we ask for your assistance, because you are now saying 'do a law', and once I go to legislation, you are flying up and saying: 'Why are you doing legislation while we are in national dialogue'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u142	We will support it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u143	Don't go to me when these are...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u144	We'll support it as a party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Constantopoulos, calm down. Sit down. Let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u146	Well, you know we're on the same track, and that's what we're gonna take care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and an educational attendant from the Erasmio Hellenic German School (C' Department). The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, can I have a word?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Kegeroglu, what do you want now? We're closing the meeting. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u150	Before we close the meeting, I would like to say that we cannot make a regulation for each minister. The Minister of Finance, who canceled today and my question, could set up his schedule and be here. He's inside the House. He's chosen to have some procedures. However, there is no justification in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and those determined by the Conference of Presidents. That is what I wanted to point out to them to make another point. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u151	Good. Record your objection. As I said to a previous colleague, who, for the same reason, expressed his protest, today we have a Conference of Presidents at 15.00 p.m. Once again, I think we should raise this issue and discuss it. Thank you. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-25-S1-commons.u152	With the consent of the House at 12.22 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow morning, Friday, February 26, 2016, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) Topical Questions debate and b) question debate, according to the agenda distributed.
