ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC HORIZATION [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Parliament's special session on 'Equivalent participation of women in the political and social decision-making centres'. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone and everyone. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. I wish, on behalf of the Bureau, many years to all the women who are here today and to all the women in our country and the world, since 8 March is devoted to them. At today's sitting, I will speak on behalf of the Bureau, and then on behalf of the Government, the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Theanos Fotio, will be speaking for ten minutes and will be followed by ladies and gentlemen, nominated by the parliamentary groups of all the parties in this House, with their position for six minutes. That's the process. Today they have responded to our invitation, attending and we welcome them: Mrs Vassiliki Thananos - Christophilou, President of the Ice Bay and former Prime Minister of Greece. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Androniki Theotokatokatou, President of the Court of Auditors. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Euterpe Kotzamani, Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ms. Fudulaki, General Commissioner of the State of Regular Administrative Courts. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Ermina Kyprianidou, Deputy Head of the Central Sector of Attica. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Fotini Kouvella, Secretary-General of Gender Equality of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ms Kallipe Bourdara, former Member of the European Parliament, was elected by the Union of former Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Dimitra Arapoglou, former MP. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Fani Pallie - Petrilla, former Member of the European Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The former Gender Equality Secretarys are also present. Mrs. Irene Valsamakis - Rally. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Tina Pantazi. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Anna Karamanou. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Mika Koutsileu. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Aphie Beku. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And Mrs. Eugenia Tsumani. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ms. Irene Agathopoulos, President of the Centre for Equality Research (ERIC) as a representative, is also present. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ms. Iphigenia Kamtsidou, President of the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And Mrs Maria Gasuka, Vice President of the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ms. Dimitra Head, Legal Adviser of the State in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And Mrs Maria Bassidakis, Commissioner of the Court of Auditors. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Stamatina Kafatsakis - Vlachos, mayor of Painter, is also present. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] So thank you very much for everyone's presence. The names of those who are late to come, I'll announce as soon as they arrive. I would also like to say a few words on behalf of the Bureau. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to this sitting today. I feel very honoured and happy to be in the Bureau on this flagrant day and to say a few words about Women's Day. Today's special session of the House is dedicated to Women's Day on March 8th, which, as you know, was established as a woman's day, because in 1857 textile workers in New York made a great protest demanding equal pay for men. It was a protest suppressed by the police in the crackdown. Since then this demonstration has remained in history, so that in 1911 the date demonstrated by these New York workers to be established as World Women’s Day was decided. So this day, every year, depending on the country, depending on the situation, we are celebrating Woman's Day in peace or not - we saw yesterday in Turkey that a demonstration of women was beaten too badly - so that women really could present it. Because women were never absent from all the great historical events either they were war and resistance or they were peace, everyday life within the family and work. Everywhere the female presence was irreplaceable and great. So this day we are being called today as a Greek Parliament to honour it, because it is women's struggles that gave us the opportunity today to have rights: the right to vote and equality, not wider, but at least standard equality in most parts of the world. Of course, Europe is a safe country. But there are other parts of the world, which women live in very bad conditions, are humiliated, humiliated, recognized for them, neither the right to education nor the right to marry the man they have loved, nor the right to love, because they have fear of mutilation, nor even the right to move freely. All that we in Europe regard as self-evident, there are millions of women who lack them. This is a huge disparity on the planet, and we, privileged women, cannot think of this huge problem that our women are living on the other continents of the Earth. At the same time, because at every juncture, 8 March is celebrated, I would like to say today, because in Greece we have a very serious problem, which is the refugee problem, to say a few words about the refugee woman, about the woman we are all watching on our TVs, coming from the war to seek a safe haven, holding her arms or children in order to seek a better life. These women refugees are with us, they are with us, we see them every day, we see anxiety and hope in their eyes. So these women refugees, I think, are the modern heroines, not only because in times of war and death they decide to bring to the world a new life, but because this new life then risk losing it, in order to live better, across the Aegean Sea, sometimes with their children drown, sometimes in a country of Western Europe, where they do not usually welcome them well, when they are trapped - as in our country - and they cannot go back or forth, because some decide to close their borders and sometimes live in the camps in Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon, waiting patiently to end the war and return to their homelands. According to UN figures, 40% of asylum seekers worldwide are women and of them, the majority have been subject to violence until it reaches a request for asylum. According to the High Commissioner's data, 34% of those entering Europe are women and children who, all the way to reach the so-called 'paraise of Europe', face dangers, face traps, face violence and nothing is certain about them. So these women, I think we should be keeping them in mind today, especially us, women politicians, women in decision-making centres, women who are privileged, because we have a daily life that we have chosen, we have a daily life that is continually in light, while the lives of these people are in darkness, are invisible. We, therefore, privileged women - members of parliament, scientists, women of public life, senior women who are in different positions, really need to reflect on these women who are in our country and some other women who do not have our own, perhaps privileges, such as grandmothers from Lesbos, the thousands of anonymous women who have self-sacrificedly expressed their solidarity with this refugee, to the babies of women who wished to feed. We also have to show this solidarity in one way or another, because solidarity makes us better people, because solidarity allows us to see the unlimited potential we have as humans to share human pain on the other hand, to decipher the messages of our time. I think that if we were to say today what is a demand that unites women throughout the world, which would be possible for everyone to serve it, claim it, fight for it, it would be peace and freedom. I think this is a request which expresses all women from east to west and from north to south, because without these two, they really cannot have a place in society, live safely, have a perspective. Today, especially when women as the victims of neoliberalism are concentrating on the unemployed, today taking up their role in the family in its new form, because it replaces the dissolution of the welfare state, today that they must take care of the elderly and the children, to encourage the unemployed members of the family and within the depressing daily life who live to give courage and optimism to all members of the family, so these women - heroines who are next to us, who are anonymous, are today, above all interested in peace and freedom. Will you tell me, today's issue of this House, that women are more, that they are better quality in decision-making centres, is not a request that is concerned? Of course it is. But I believe that we in decision-making centres, we who are legislating, are taking initiatives to denounce gender discrimination, because of race, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, social origin, and we who are trying to decide and propose positive actions for women, have an obligation, apart from enlarging the circle of women who are taking part in decision-making centres, listening to and talking about the majority of women who are today in the world oppressed, who are today looking for a mark of joy, a mark of hope. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now the Deputy Minister, Mr. Theano Fotio, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, inequality, crisis, unemployment, poverty, despair, refugee, migration, hostilities, resistance, claim, care, solidarity, hope. They are words that women know in their daily lives all over the earth, and our own women, the Greek women, are words, of course, the birth of a female. It is a kilowatt and recorded with overwhelming figures that the crisis in Europe has primarily hit women, especially in the countries that have been implemented hard and prolonged austerity policies, because these policies have shrinked the areas where majority women have been employed, work, such as the public sector, the services of the social state - health, education, social protection - and domestic work and home care. As said by Maria Karamesini, professor of the Panteion and director of the OAED, it is the areas that helped women to improve their positions at work, social and political life and to renegotiate the social roles of gender and their relationship with men, namely the so-called "social contract of gender". From a political point of view, the biggest negative consequence of the crisis is that it has allowed the objective of gender equality to be widened - the President has already mentioned. In several countries where austerity policies were imposed, in addition to the phenomena of cancellation or reversal of policies promoting gender equality, there was even a shrinking of state actors and institutions for gender equality policy. On the other hand, it is encouraging that despite the revival of conservative and nationalist ideologies in many economically developed countries, in recent years this unfavourable development does not seem to lead to a shift in women's commitment to independence and autonomy through paid work. However, as Professor of SASA Lada points out: "The absence of a gender perspective in the analyses of the new phenomena of the crisis in Greece and elsewhere, they state consciously or unconsciously that the main narrative of the crisis will not be altered by it". It points out, therefore, that this is why we should explore the current displacement of the rule of law and the production of normal by means of welfare policies, to the production and management of emergencies and emergencies, which in turn establish the 'new normal' class. The neoliberal treaty of crisis and precariousness offers a fertile ground for strengthening discrimination and hierarchies. The subjection of women to the natural role of home care in the context of the decimation of the public care system, the uninsured work undertaken by immigrants from the world south, the exclusions of the family-run care model, the impoverishment of the positive women, the neonazi mob ready to lynch up, are imprints of a biopolitical, which is not just a complete loss of the crisis, but also a critical strategic crisis governance. Maria Karmesini points out, however, once again that the current crisis has definitively and irrevocably canceled the theoretical position that women are a backup army or a safety valve during periods of recession. It has shown that not only women are not discouraged from the labour market because of the crisis but because of the labour market are mobilised and massively entering the labour market in order to support family income, which is affected by men's unemployment or underemployment. Everywhere households, with a women's unique carryer, increased during the crisis, while women of productive age, with a low level of education and family income, were massively integrated into the labour market. At the same time, they are proven by the most persistent and genuine struggles against the policies of austerity and monuments, such as the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, who were great fighters, were struggling for a year and a half outside the Ministry of Finance - only women - claiming everything, their gender and their right to work. I would like to remind you here that great fighters have been women in Kobani, women who have been consciously resisted, having received all the training required to cope with the most barbaric army facing humanity in recent years: ISIS. These women fell or lived in Kobani and today in them are the women you see in the great refugee flows that come to our country. I think that the refugee has been analysed in the most appropriate way by the President. And I don't want to come back to this right now. But what is extremely interesting and hopeful is that women in our country have been leading in recent years, in the crisis, an amazing movement of initiatives, solidarity and resistance. They are the ones that create and are the backbone of all solidarity structures throughout Greece. They are the ones you see today as the dominant backbone of supporting all movements of solidarity and humanity towards refugees and immigrants. As Dina Vaiou says, a professor at the SPA, "the emergence of such initiatives is a hopeful message to the grim daily life of our cities". These initiatives contribute to the reconstruction of the areas of everyday life by redefining the concept of neighbourhood and neighbourhood. The work, emotional and material, which is needed to operate such a project, has a profoundly gratuitous sign, whose recognition, understanding and study, I think, determines the relationships built within the crisis. And it opens up another world for after the crisis. I believe that today, in honor of the women of our country, as well as of all the land for what they do and which opens us up to us in our own country, I have honoured with my references to these three researchers and all the women - researchers who give their lights to us with their jobs, before and during the crisis, to better understand the role of women and what is happening in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u3	We also thank the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Theanos Fotio. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Aphrodite Stavoulis, Member of the Serres, on behalf of SYRIZA. Mrs Stuboulis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today, 8 March, the Greek Parliament honors Women's Day. Do we all agree? Yes, I do. The phrase, with which we have just agreed, contains two fundamental mistakes that overthrow its meaning. First of all, it's not Women's Day today, it's Women's Day. Not only because this is how the UN defined it - Women's Day - but also because there is no woman, eternal female. There are women in their social roles, in their social situation: Rich and poor, working or unemployed, with precarious or undeclared work. Formulated or less educated. Operatingly illiterates or even completely illiterates. Immigrants or refugees. Civilians in this country, active or less active. With or without disabilities, at least for the time being. Heterosexual, homosexual or transgender. Mothers with marriage or without marriage. Multiple, single-parent or not-mothers. And the list could continue. Women, therefore, of different kinds of women, but all kinds of women, on different terms, are, of course, still subject to discrimination on the basis of their sex. Distinctions at work, wage differences and glass ceilings are always present. Discrimination in the distribution of unpaid domestic work and care, therefore in the free time it commits itself. Discrimination in access to sexual and reproductive health and the exercise of sexual and reproductive rights, even in maintaining the anatomic integrity of their genitals. Discrimination in the exercise of economic activity and inherited rights, even in Greek territory. Discrimination in access, education and technology. Discrimination in participation in decision-making centres, with the parliaments and governments of European countries and our own certainly including. They also continue to run the risk of having gender-based violence either domestic violence, sexual harassment at work, rape, or sexual abuse. It is no coincidence that the treatment of these discriminations against women is included in the fifth of the seventeen objectives for sustainable development set by the UN for the 15th year 2016-2030. This objective, let us not be self-sufficient, will only be won if it is constantly reclaimed, against a social reality where capitalism and patriarchy fuel each other. If, as EL FEM says - the Feminist Network of the European Left - in its text for 8 March, we are rebelling against patriarchal and capitalist madness. And we're coming to the second mistake. We say in the Greek Parliament, not "Greeks", nor in the rest of the country's population, but this is another debate. In the House, in its Rules of Procedure, an increased institutional text approved by a qualified majority, there is not a single reference to a female person. There is no 'the President', although it has had two so far, there is not only 'the Bulgarian' or 'the speaker' or 'the rapporteur', 'the voter', but there is not even 'the listener' in the articles in the gallery. If the speech builds the social roles of the genders, the sexist speech of the Greek Parliament's Rules of Procedure for Greek citizens builds a single role, that of non-existence, with reason being incomprehensible for some to say "they are present". Given the position, very recently in the public administration, of the guide to avoid sexism in administrative documents, there is the tool, there is a glorious field for the committee dealing with reforming the Rules of Procedure to ensure the visibility of sex, the verbal assumption that every person who moves in here is equally likely to be a woman or a man in the new Rules of Procedure. Because the "selective assumption" of the possibility of becoming a reality soon, another field of glory is open to them and to the editors of the new electoral law, but also to the statutes of the parties and their daily political practice, to ensure those arrangements and practices, which will soon make the balanced participation of social sexes, equal participation of women, namely, in the House and in the government. No longer a miserable quota, which is being destroyed at every opportunity, but full equality, the famous 50-50, which corresponds to the real representation of the population in general and also of the electorate in particular. We honor Women's Day by updating our goals, strengthening our claims, so that, as EL FEM once again says in his declaration "we have 365 days of equality, 365 days of Women's Day". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Stuboulis. Mrs Anna Karamanlis, Member of the Parliament of Athens, is speaking on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are honouring the International Women's Day, a landmark set up to recognise the multidimensional offer of women to society, but above all to commemorate the long-term conquests of women and to raise awareness of the harsh reality that today continues to experience a portion of women, a reality full of discrimination and exclusion. At today's juncture our thoughts can only be found in the refugee woman and the suffering she often endures with children in her arms to escape the war vulture. We can only consider the difficulties and exploitation of this woman through this trial, and how difficult it is to integrate into a new environment. After all, the European Parliament has chosen to devote this day to this woman. Let us hope that this symbolism will also be accompanied by the relevant and necessary initiatives, by deeding European solidarity, solidarity like the one shown by the Lesbos contagious grandmothers who, with an excess of humanity, have been subject to governments and international organisations. And this woman of sensitivity and a merciful offer should also be shown today. Gender equality, legal and legislative, is guaranteed at international and national level. It can only be a key priority for every modern democracy. Equal opportunities in employment, education, politics and any activity should be seen as self-evident. Undoubtedly, we have gone a long way and there have been considerable progress. A number of policies, legislative initiatives and European programmes have helped strengthen the role of women and combat discrimination. However, prejudices and stereotypes with deep roots in society show the need to forge exchange rate relations, with even greater intensity. A characteristic case is the participation of women in the decision-making centres, where their sub-representation is keeping them well. At the workplace, women start from a disadvantaged start to work, trying to combine family and occupational obligations. At the same time, they are confronted with suspicion, questioning their capabilities and obsolete views on the role they can play. This lack of confidence in women's value has consolidated a huge discrepancy in taking responsibility, but also wage differences between the two sexes, and this despite the fact that there are brilliant examples of women who have successfully held large companies. In representation in common, numbers in many cases are concerned if they are not destructive. In the European Parliament, women's representation reaches 37% and Greek MEPs account for less than 25% of Greek representation, while women's participation in the European Commission is 32%. In our national Parliament there is a steady increase in women's representation, as the introduction of the quota for the drawing-up of the lists has been a positive step. From 6.3% in 1996, we reached the record in January 2015, with sixty-eight women MPs and 23%, in order to bring about a new reduction in female representation in last September's last election, held with a list, which should concern us and act not only as women but also as a political system. The low participation of women is also reflected in the composition of the Ministerial Council, with only eight members and 17%. The percentages were even lower in previous governments. The same picture is seen in the highest positions of the public administration, with the only sure female representation being in the General Secretariat of Equality, perhaps to remind us of the hypocrisy with which the issue of gender equality is often approached. Ladies and gentlemen, the need to involve women in political life and in positions of responsibility has been recognised internationally. State, parties, social actors, together we must work to provide equal opportunities and strengthen the principle of equality, so that women, the support and the basic cell of the Greek family can conquer what is right, without giving her anything. I believe that the most important and most crucial thing is for women themselves to have confidence in their powers and to realise that there is no need in their professional and political efforts and to seek active participation at all levels. It is the women's presence in the decision-making centres that will enable us to intervene drastically on all the issues that concern us. In Greece today's crisis with the inevitable social implications, we need this presence to consolidate it and strengthen it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis. Mrs Eleni Zaroulia, MP from Athens from the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, every woman who calls himself a feminist struggles - supposedly - for equality and freedom, seeking to "democratise the bonds" that keep her limited at home and in family care, while her professional rehabilitation, with her incoming economic independence, imagines as the solution to her problem. However, according to the pheasyness of feminism, being a woman working and at the same time bearing the responsibility of family care, regardless of her financial autonomy, while her obligations are growing, is not oppression. It is not oppression, because it protects the current of progressivity today, because materialism and profit have become superior values within the scourge of the modern system, and for some strange reason only the creation of a family is oppression. But, in fact, real oppression is the disorientation that has been taken by women today for the sake of gender equality, since the dominant feeling of it is that of weakness, injustice, inferiority towards the opposite sex. As a result, it raises the man to her enemy and is perpetrated daily in a meaningless battle against her "impossible" to gain her supposed equality and freedom, as a further victim of isotopeism that plagues our time. Balance of values, ideals and standards, with both sexes removed. However, in contrast to this unnatural role that strives to give the woman the perverted system, nationalism is perception of her position and role in society, which, both socially and familyly, enjoys absolute respect and recognition. The nationalist view stands in war with the equilibrium of the two sexes, which seeks to break down any value that promotes the institution of family and motherhood, by replacing it with standards below and degenerated. Motherhood in our worldview is a sacred duty, but at the same time it is an absolute honor for the woman, highlighting the highest of her role. It is a duty and honor to bring new members of the nation into the world, to raise them up and discipline them according to the values, ideals and virtues of wider totality, making them the link between the past, the present and the future, so that they may then contribute to the nation. In view of the fact that some are deliberately trying to distort the unrestricted respect of nationalists in the sense of maternity, we make it clear that we have never seen a woman confined, nor have we ever seen her as a deaf being or as a production machine that does not control the body and its choices, as some like to say to cover their own destructive beliefs and live their myth. Nor have we ever been in favour of a woman becoming a mother if she does not want to. However, we consider it necessary for society to provide the necessary knowledge, motivation and capabilities so that it becomes a worthy mother, if it wants, reaching its conclusion. Thus, women are not treated as a vessel of pleasure and as a consumer being, which requires the trend and current of each age. On the contrary, its position and role are fully recognized, while the gender diversity is fully respected. A real woman, however, beyond maternity and family care, must be just as hard, dynamic and combative. It may combine its employment with the family, provided that it does not forget and overlook its role and its mission in society, namely, that it moves on the basis of its potential and nature, without trying to successfully imitate the man, simply forming a cappuccino. A bright example, over the centuries, remains the pattern of women in ancient Sparta, which demonstrates the harmonious coexistence of values such as the Greek woman as a mother, a companion and a fellow warrior. However, it should be pointed out that the completely perverting spirit of feminism, slowly and firmly destroying the physical relations of a man - woman, has achieved a heavy blow to the Greek nation, increasing the birth rate to serious levels and leading to demographic decline, as we reach the last limit of zero growth, while superstitious deaths towards births. The seriousness of the issue raises it into a major problem of national survival, which can only be understood and resolved through nationalistic cosmopolitanisation. March 8th is the Women's Day. But it is also the day of the first order for the government to send out a message to the Greek people, which, unfortunately, differs greatly from the real meaning of this day. Without having the real dissatisfaction of the role of women living in the drama of refugee, war, migration, exploitation and oppression, I would like to devote today's anniversary to the missing heroes of this society who have been forgotten either because of the events of recent days or because of the wrong priorities that we have set as a society. So what we need to honor first and foremost is Greek women, either mother, wife, either economically independent and professionally successful, or unemployed and economicly intolerable, Greek women have been hard tested in recent years and long before the Memorandum. This is the first objective of neo-taxi policy, which wants it to be followed or a society of obsolete morals and values, a member of a society of colourless and citizen of a nation without a background and perspective. The role of the family, whose style is the Greek woman, was undermined and replaced by the desire for a career. The creation of a family and the perpetuation of the nation through reproduction, a biological privilege that the woman possesses, is today considered, if not harmful, to something unnecessary. The Greek woman’s equal participation in education was not the aim of the right education of her children. so that she delivers to the Greek society worthy and responsible citizens, but with the aim of adopting foreigners - our customs and ideas, with the aim of disorientating it and finally plundering it into a social machine that is malfunctioning and simply recycles years of problems. The Greek woman was tried hard and despite her sacrifices, the struggles and her agony for a better future, she remains in an unfavourable position today. It has nothing to do with its economic position nor with its professional restoration, but with its role in society, as an active and creative cell. And as long as we do not understand or refuse to respect this role so much we will oppress it and make it a prey for any developments. And if for some of you this day is a milestone for women refugees, who actually live in a drama, then you make the big mistake of forgetting or degrading the tragedy of our own people, because our own women live their war too. It is a social war that is miraculous and has degraded everything that creative in this country. And in this war, Golden Dawn wants the Greek women on her side so that the Greek tradition, the Greek letters, the Greek religion, with the main cells of our society, the family, may prevail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u9	On behalf of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, MP Achaias, and I ask you to respect time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate in Greece and Europe on equal participation of women in political and social decision-making centres is characterised by a negative sign, that of inequality, inequality in access to work, inequality in equal opportunities, inequality in treatment, inequality in participation in political, economic and social decision-making centres. The question, of course, is inconsistent with such a debate is what we are trying to understand, to draw as a conclusion from such a debate. Do we want to show that greater participation, access by women to these centres will work as a multiplier so that more women are constantly involved in leading positions in political, economic and social life? Do we want to recognise that Europe's efforts over the last thirty years, in particular to eliminate inequalities and strengthen equality, are justified by the search for an index or average of participation? Do we, finally, pursue the ongoing modernisation of the dominant political account of equal participation, which remains, of course, a great conquest of European social democracy, but conflicts daily with ideological, social and political housing with conservative stereotypes and hard social cultural economic and political identities? I fear that all of this can only be the tip of the iceberg. To understand the inequality at the top, in decision-making centres we should start with the expanded inequality of the basis and understand its social mechanisms of reproduction. Let us think that the only guaranteed and institutionalised equal access everywhere in Europe and Greece is the one offered by education, while in most areas access is supported either by positive gender discrimination or by institutionalised quotas. Equality is guaranteed in education, and that is where we see the lead, even at the learning level, of girls. Even at the level of school leakage, the percentage of girls is well below that of boys, including key social and economic factors. So what is this social and political filter that limits equal access for women to positions of responsibility and equal treatment? Of course, institutionalised equality of access to education does not mean, at the same time, establishing social equality through school, as well as changing social identities. The problem of the enlarged Inequality Basis for Women begins from their unequal access to social equality, the labour market, and this often independent of formal qualifications. For example, according to the 2015 ELSTAT figures from 2008 until now, men's employment rate has declined from 80% to 62.9% and women's employment rate has fallen from 52.5% to almost 43%. The unemployment rate of women in Greece is now 60%. However, in Europe the number of women's employment growth was correspondingly 60% in 2013, but it falls significantly short of the European Union's 2020 employment strategy target at 75% of the age category 20 to 64 and improving the quality of work. If the current crisis continues, if the current trend continues, the objective of the European Union's strategy will not only be achieved in 2020, but will not be visible in 2040 either. At the same time, the pyramid of inequalities is the norm in Europe, it is not the exception. While 60% of young graduates and almost 46% of doctoral holders in the European Union are women, they represent only 35% of the total number of academic staff in European universities and research centres and only 20% of university posts with higher and administrative academic positions. Also 20% finds the representation of women in higher levels of private enterprises in Europe, while only 4% of the maximum escalations of five hundred large businesses are women. At the same time, women are under-represented in policy decision-making positions. In the European institutions, as has been said before, all twenty-eight states have only five Heads of State and at the same time in the European Parliament women's participation is 37%. In national parliaments, the average is 28%, while in Greece, only fifty eight women have been elected to three hundred. In this we must bear in mind that these rates are positively affected by the institutionally regulated quotas and demonstrate the limited access of women to decision-making centres. But they also prove something else. That, despite institutional, positive discrimination, domestic inequalities start from deep-rooted social and economic causes, interlinked with the construction of social gender and the constant reproduction of the same social behaviours that determine each sex. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Let us think, in Greece, when we legislated the criminalization of domestic violence, when we legislated the criminalisation of rape within marriage. Let us consider when we spoke, in Greece, for the first time, about sexual harassment at work. It is about the slow development of social stereotypes, the delayed performance, incorporation and incorporation of rights capable of transforming collective consciousness and guaranteeing protected equal access to rights, opportunities, goods and services which are currently exacerbating existing inequalities. The cultural background of societies, as well as the abstract forces of the economic crisis, are simply coming to slow down this development, marginalizing to the exclusion of women from the social and political decision-making centres. This grid of rampant inequalities has classic, social, political features, which addict society and citizens to evaluate roles and behaviours, eventually shaping their identity through the differentiation of biological sex. So, of course, the question is asked to a successful businessman, a politician, a university, a court president when she finds the time to look after her children, if she has, and less self-evidently asks a man of the same positions. The explanation is simple and is based on the racial division of social roles. The uptake of the differentiation of biological sex creates fundamental social identities and these are, in turn, the inequalities that we all see today. However, as slow as it is to mature collective perceptions, political transformations, rights-building, nothing can stop social progress in the achievement of equality of opportunity, equality of treatment, equality in social and political inclusion. In this direction, despite mistakes and oppositions, the conquests of modern legal culture for the fight against inequalities, as well as the completion of the European worthy model of rights and freedoms remain an important prerogative of both European law and European social democracy. And this is a dog fight and effort for the generations of our common future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u11	Mr Emmanuel Synthrakis, MP of Heraklion of the KKE, is called in Stepma. Mr. Synatiakis, keep your time, please. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, today is one of the most important moments of the global labour movement. March 8th has been established as the day that reminds everyone and all of the need for the constant struggle to win the equality and emancipation of workers, women from other popular strata, for work, wages, pensions and care, for the right to rest, for life with rights. It reminds young people and young people that they are canceling dreams, expectations of education, work with rights for all, regardless of sex, race, color and religion. The message of 8 March reminds us of its international dimension. It gives genuine popular solidarity to the thousands of refugees, among them women, infants, unaccompanied children and adolescents, who have fallen victim to operating circuits. Recalls the need for class solidarity with the women refugee and immigrant from Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq, Africa, where land, in their struggle with their men and children for a better future, without imperialist wars and massacres and with the wish to return quickly to their homes, to have a better future. Ladies and gentlemen, we communists and Communists are proud of our party's contribution, since its establishment, to revealing the substance of the female issue, to fighting the darkening perceptions of women's biological and spiritual inferiority, to the one-dimensional role of women in the family. There is not even a progressive, radical idea that has not erupted from the positions of the JRC, from its slogans and deeds. The seeds of the female struggle did not fall on earth by the bourgeoisie, but by the workers, by the working class and its representatives, Clara Chetkin, the tailors of New York, the symbols against fascism and Naziism, such as Elektra Apostlelou, the symbols against employers' terrorism and arbitraryness, such as the murdered Salvation of Vasilakopoulou by ETMA's minions. The JRC wrote history on women's conquests in the 20th century. Legendful women, forms of class struggle, became MPs - National Counsellors for the first time in 1944, in the elections that took place to highlight the National Council and the Political Committee of National Liberation, such as Katie Zegos, Battle Mavroids, Maria Svolou, Fotini Filipidis, Chrysa Hadjimbassiliou. At that time, for the first time, women have voted in our country and in the very difficult circumstances of the German-Fascist occupation. At that time, equal pay and equal work were institutionalised, the real equality of women, when the European Union today moves our fingers, saying that the objective of equal pay can be made a reality in 2084. In the difficult years of the Thirty-one occupation, hunger and racial anachronism, half of the ECON members were girls. More than eight thousand, 30% of the total force, of the militants of the Republican Army of Greece 1946-1949 were women. For the first time, in human history, women's political equilibrium was enshrined in the first Soviet Constitution in 1918, a time when it opened a way to raising the role of women and treated women equally with men in labour law, civil rights, education and elsewhere. Women were retired five years earlier than men. Ladies and gentlemen, on the JRC, discrimination and disparity against women are not treated as a field of confrontation between women and men. They are a historical, social phenomenon, which is expressed in all spheres of social life and stem from the class relations of exploitation. That is why the JRC rejects the theories, the abstract interpretations, of patriarchal and male society supporting liberal, neoliberal, social-democratic, left-wing parties, concealing the causes of inequality and discrimination against women. In practice, this means denying the class origin of the issue, namely capitalism and any exploiting socio-economic formation, does not want or can give the real parity, precisely because it runs counter to its own exploitive character. These views are also giving rise to the ideologies of discrimination between biological and social sex, where, through this theory, class oppositions are abolished, the class root of the female issue, and women's unequality rises in opposition to the double man - woman. These are theories unscientific, darkening, poisoning the minds of young people and especially of girls, with all the reactionary, urban thought. Thus today, the aim of the equal participation of women in decision-making centres, the measure of the quota of women in the lists, the sign of women entrepreneurship, is to adapt the concept of equality to the objectives of capital. They are used as tools to cover dual oppression, which women in the working class are subjected to. They deceive workers by identifying their interests with the interests of the company that exploits them in the name of racial solidarity and racial affinity. They are addressed to women who are never to be found in the position of owners or big business and who are trying to obscure the different, opposite interests they objectively have from women in the bourgeoisie. The bourgeoisie, of course, is interested in itself and understands that it must form an elite female leadership, which will pass its own values and ideas, the ideology of the bourgeoisie in women. The bourgeois, of course, what do they need? They have their donkey tied up. They have maids, they have blankets, like money to deal with their children’s education in private schools and their health problems in private hospitals. Not all women have the same chance of participating in decision-making centres in capitalism. Where is equality and social justice when on their shoulders the burden of caring for the family, the children and the elderly falls, when free time is nonexistent, when they are blackmailed at work by the employer to accept the individual contract, when they are forced to sign an agreement binding on them that they will not create a family, when they abolish the childbirth allowance, as recently the SYRIZA - ANEL Government? And it seems, of course, that these will not be the last benefits for new mothers to say good-bye. The abolition of social security will affect all women in the working class themselves who will never receive a pension. The woman, therefore, is the mortgage on capitalism in order to consolidate flexible labour relations and part-time employment. The interests of women in the bourgeoisie are hostile to those of the workers, the unemployed, the self-employed and the rural women. Are Lagard or Merkel, for example, who are women? Do they have a philosophical policy? Politics is not determined by sex, but by the order of those who exercise it. That is why women in the working class and in the public strata must not fall into this trap and must claim measures, positive discrimination which relieve them of multiple burdens, fight to ensure modern rights for themselves and their families, social recognition and protection of maternity, the creation of public and free social infrastructures and services for childcare, to meet the needs of the family, the retirement of women at the age of 55, with a five-year difference between men and the protection of women in workplaces. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, the naval involvement in the Aegean Sea poses too many dangers. Women and mothers must not accept their children being victims or victims of imperialist interventions for the interests of monopolies. And that must be the model of a woman fighter who fights equally with the man in the social struggles against the imperialist wars. Conspiracy with the JRC can give new impetus, new dynamics and new breath in reconstructing the working people's movement for the benefit of both the woman and the man, the whole of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u13	I would like to inform you that in the second round that a representative of all the parties will speak again, time will be absolutely respected, because it is not the case. We have guests, they have jobs, they have obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u14	To make better management of time in the first round, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u15	What can I do, Mr. Lykoudi? I've made three calls.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u16	It's not the next one's fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u17	Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki from Potami, Mr. Catherine Markos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there is the impression that today's day, 8 March, as well as the general debate on equal participation of women in social, economic and political life, is only about women, that this is a request concerning the interests and moral restoration of a special group of people. In fact, the exclusion of women from equal access to life, work, politics leads to loss of prosperity for the whole of society, loss of value that is not achieved, because no equal opportunities are given to all members of society. Hillary Clinton, a woman politician who has devastated many stereotypes, said that when women are healthy and educated, when they are free from violence, when they can work and earn a living as full and equal partners in society, their families will prosper. And when families prosper, communities and nations prosper. That is why the debate on equal participation of women is not just about every woman, but about every man and every family and, ultimately, about the whole society. What does that mean, however, equal participation? Women today do not demand special treatment, but equal opportunities, equal opportunities to develop their professional and personal careers, write their own story, equal opportunities to claim personal development. However, in order to have equal opportunities, measures are needed by the state on the basis of the objective and particular difficulties faced by women as a result of their motherhood and upbringing. Special treatment for women is the solution of a defeated society, a society that has not been able to overcome stereotypes and prejudices, which retrospectively covers the gaps of the state. On the contrary, equal access to opportunities must be given from the outset. And yet, there are still around us today stereotypes social and political, which are already starting with the raising of children, even from the game and making certain roles and behaviors for the girl and the boy. In many cases the themes and objects with which girls are acquainted from childhood are by their very nature limited, assuming that all of them erase the life cycle and the course of a girl and "build" a framework in which they are allowed, it is socially acceptable to move a woman after the day. I'm sure things are not like they were thirty or forty years ago. Our recent history is full of women - standards, from Kalliroi Parren, from Alexandra Papadopoulou to Helen Scoura and Melina Mercouri, women who fought for all of us, destroying stereotypes, opening new paths, proving that equality and equal opportunities are values that appear in practice rather than in theory. But we have enough road ahead of us to completely overcome some backward perceptions and stereotypes. I would like to stress here that support for women is a support to the family, it is a necessary treaty to resolve the demographic problem and the ageing population. And yet, we have a gross tax system against families with children, which does not favour the mother who takes over children. EUROSTAT's figures show that the more a woman makes a woman the more precarious her work situation becomes. At the same time, programmes such as the harmonisation of family and working life, which exist to facilitate working women by offering access to care services for their children, are underfunded. The treatment of these and other relevant issues by the state is a minimum condition, in order to ensure substantial and not formal equal opportunities. In closing my speech, I would like to refer to the anonymous woman, the middle woman who today carries on her shoulders not only the burden of her professional advancement but also the cohesion of the family. This anonymous woman who every day struggles for her personal and family dignity is devoted to this day, I dedicate my speech. I therefore urge all of us to do the right thing, once again stressing the equal opportunities that must be given, in order for every woman to claim her self-regulatory status and for society to have the fullest possible benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u19	I thank Mrs Marcus for both the time and the content of her speech. The Greeks will now speak on behalf of the Independents, Maria Collia - Tsarouha, MP Serres, but also Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. Come on, Mrs. Charuha.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u20	And I will add, 'Macedonia-Thrace', Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my dear guests, I would like to start by telling you that I would not be at this step if I were to face the world day dedicated to women as a typical anniversary obligation. If we allow this to happen, there will be very good questions for men and women: what is the reason one day from all year to devoted to women as if they were a protected species? I am telling you, I would find it difficult to answer this question both as a woman and as a politician. In contrast, if we are to make good use of our references to this day dedicated to women's rights, we must escape established perceptions and misleading figures. The figures certainly confirm the great change and improvement of the position of women in recent decades, but hiding that in every expression of everyday life, women remain, as a presence and value, in question. And I am not afraid to say that it is often dealt with in terms of racism. Ladies and gentlemen, the little representation of women in decision-making centres is not only capable of overthrowing reality as I described it, but rather of confirming the rule by way of exception. It therefore makes sense and content the world day for women's rights, not as a formal contractual celebration, but as an opportunity to recast and promote the gender equality message, equal opportunities between them and the condemnation of any other conception. As a woman and as a Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks I must highlight the following phenomenon, first of all disprove the argument about the conflict of cultures between a retrospective and religious East and a progressive and enlightened West: unfortunately, elements of depreciation of women, which are, of course, problematic elements of the functioning of democracy, are everywhere else. Of course, phenomena do not have the same intensity and the same way of manifesting in the West and East, let alone when they appear as elements of religious faith, as we see in many parts of the world. If, on one side, we have inequality and extreme events at the expense of women - I remind you of the marriages of minor girls, physical amputations, extensive and imposed illiteracy - we must courageously highlight the phenomena of the unequal treatment of women in the Western world, where, if we do not forget the misleading glow that is being emitted, we will see that, while everything appears at official level legally regulated, almost everywhere, women have the least opportunities, the lowest wages, the highest unemployment rates and remain the objective of a covert but many times violent sexism. We are therefore talking about the terms of a blocked majority as a result of the attitudes of the yesterday who are still running our societies. It is obvious, beyond the declarations, that the main features of a patriarchal society remain present and particularly resilient. These are the challenges, therefore, which are all we must face today and on the occasion of today, not confine ourselves to a mere celebration of what we have achieved, but to consider it as a starting point for dealing with the even more that has not been done. It is easy to conclude, I believe, that the effort to guarantee equal rights is a matter for all of us and the whole of the planet. In one case, in the third and fourth world, we must find the ways to protect the human presence by training, by legislating, in order to overcome anachronistic, inhumane perceptions against women. In the other case, Western societies should help to deepen and implement the ideas, values and laws that guarantee the equal presence of women. It is extremely useful at this point not to divulge our attention that when we talk about a woman, we speak of a man who was given an excellent, divine opportunity and a gift of motherhood. We should not, therefore, allow or continue to allow this gift to be used to justify the unequal treatment of women and to be a gift that eventually becomes punishable. Especially here, as a Greek mother, I should also give the prescribed dramatic dimension for our homeland, which is the rapidly growing birth rate. In our place, apart from the reasons we meet in the rest of the developed world, we should also sum up the consequences of the long period of the economic crisis. Our women and families have characteristics of a powerless state, not having their own power to face up to the economic crisis. The unprecedentedly negative demographic development, which, like only during the Occupation, had lived in our country, requires us alongside the protection of women and motherhood to promote and summ up the treatment of this great national threat. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Our country at any cost and in any way must immediately and decisively support the Greek families and the right to the motherhood that each of us has. In this case you understand that by protecting the woman, you protect the family and the future of our homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, the very important role of women's presence, as I have always tried to describe, also finds his expression in the fact that the most beautiful words have a feminine nature: Love, solidarity, compassion, protection, understanding, cooperation, justice, equality, democracy and, of course, Greece and Europe. I am referring to Europe because today's Europe must remember that it is the uterus of culture, humanism and democracy. In particular now that the whole planet is looking for a driver and a protector of human rights, the great search is one: we cannot separate the issue of women's rights from the major challenges that we face as a developed world and as Europeans. It is in vain to speak of equality of rights at the same time as creating concentration camps, at the same time as raising walls of shame, which we sprawling wires, which we trample on man. We are in the process of returning to a medium-term with the confirmation of a Europe of freedom, equality and brotherhood. I am happy and proud that Greece, the Greeks and the Greeks, and this time they chose to remain on the bright side of humanism and ideals and continue to be an example for all peoples. This is the only way for a society of equal opportunities and equal rights for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. It closes the first cycle of speakers with Ms Theodora Megalonikou, MP for the Central Association. Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Elected guests, ladies and gentlemen, today, on Women's Day, I feel very happy and proud to represent women in the Greek Parliament. I consider myself as a woman to be able to meet the goals I had set in my life as a wife for forty-four years, as a mother of three children, as a grandmother of four grandchildren and as a businessman. So, my last and greatest goal was to deal with politics, giving all my powers for a better future of children, grandchildren, all Greeks, wanting to prove within the male-dominated political space how worthy and capable women are and how, seeing things with a clear mind, they can put order on the political events, as they do on the homes. Besides, let's not forget that Empress Theodora, during the Nica Stadium, demonstrated the majesty of the woman. He proved it by preventing Emperor Justinian from leaving the city by telling him the history: “We are not saved by fleeing. Instead of dying in vain, we prefer to die endlessly struggling." That was the important thing that Theodora offered at that difficult time. Today, then, equality should not be seen as self-evident. It may expressly be in all areas of public life that equality is a self-evident assumption, but that only applies at the theoretical level. Unfortunately, reflexes of society in several cases and several branches still prove to be anachronistic. We see this, for example, in the workplace. Several companies are avoiding the recruitment of women because of the possibility of pregnancy and the working rights arising therefrom. In other areas, women are evaluated primarily by their external appearance and limited to specific specialties. In all these anachronistic phenomena women around the world give their answer daily. In science, art, culture, industry, education, even in manual and struggling occupations women are proved to be particularly competitive. In many sectors, in fact, they have begun to monopolise the interest. However, equality between women is not only something that is required of men's sex. It must first of all be a question of women themselves. Several women still live under the anachronistic models of decades ago. Both the institutionalised education institutions and the family and the media must move in this direction towards the removal of prejudices between men and women. Our western civilization, our centuries-old cultural history, is the one that requires us to place the two sexes on the same starting point for the struggle of life. Let us not forget that Greek women come to the polls for the first time in parliamentary elections on 19 February 1956. Then Lina Tsaldari of the EPE and Vasso Thanaseku of the Democratic Union enter the parliament. The first is indeed the Minister for Social Welfare in the Government of Karamanlis. After two decades the Constitution of 1975 finally defines explicitly and unconditionally that Greeks and Greeks are equal. What does that mean, practically, if we think about it? It means that all women over 40 years of age today were born in our country under inequality. That is what we as politicians are asking to do in this Chamber: to legislate taking into account people regardless of sex, sexual orientation or any other characteristic of the subject. That's what stands out for us as civilized beings. That's what made us overcome the times of darkness and the Middle Ages, i.e. judging man from his skills, from his deepest existential substance. Today, with a left-wing government, instead of strengthening gender equality, we see it being undermined. I am sorry to say this, but with the reduction of expenditure in kindergartens, in the entire school and in third-age support programmes, we are increasingly burdening the social role of Greece, depriving it of the right to equality in the workplace. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget the saying of the famous American lawyer and author of the beginning of the twentieth century, Crystal Eastman: "When women learn to desire economic independence, when they find a way to gain this independence, without denying the joys of love and maternity, then only then feminism will make sense." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. The first circle of speakers is over. Now, they will speak again for six minutes. Please respect fully the time. If any of the chosen guests can no longer wait, we have unlimited understanding. We are therefore starting with Mr Kara Yusuf Memet Iyhan, Member of the Rhodope, but also chairman of the Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights. You have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Members, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, in view of today's World Women's Day, a meeting was held last week by the Special Permanent Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, but also on the balanced participation of women in decision-making centres. The debate was based on the CEDAW Convention, one of the most important international texts, validated by a hundred and eighty-seven states, in which equal rights for men and women are defended and shielded, by promoting faith and confidence in the fundamental rights of humans in terms of dignity and equal treatment of both sexes in general in the exercise of rights, in particular of civil, economic, social, political and cultural rights. Our country signed the Treaty in 1982 and since 1983 it has been a law of the state. Within the framework of the obligations of this Convention, Greece submits every four years to the relevant United Nations Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women its National Report through the General Secretariat for Gender Equality, which is also the relevant State body. Greece is required to submit its eighth periodic report in March 2017, while the last, seventh in turn, a periodic report was submitted to the Commission on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women at its 54th Meeting held from 11 February to 1 March 2013. The most important themes in the latest report were violence against women, the trafficking in women and the exploitation of prostitution, stereotypes and harmful practices, the high unemployment rates of women in the field of employment, the position of women who experience social exclusion, their unequal participation in politics and public life, the abandonment of school education, especially from Roma and immigrants in education, the presence of women asylum seekers and immigrants, the woman in marriage and family relations. An approach to this is also the indicator of women's participation that measures the strengthening of the social sex, namely whether women and men can be actively involved in economic, political and professional life and in decision-making. The indicator focuses more on the opportunities offered to women. The 2007 head of ranking comes three Scandinavian countries: Norway, Sweden, Finland. Greece is in the thirty-seventh place under several developing countries, such as Namibia, the United Arab Emirates, Costa Rica and Trinidad and Tobago. Great disparities in relation to women are reflected in our leading democratic institution, which is no longer Parliament. As was shaped by the last elections, the percentage of women making up the House is only 19%. It is disproportionate to represent 51% of our country's population. In recent years, there has been legislation on the introduction of a quota by sex for European elections, municipal elections, regional and parliamentary elections, which is set out in 1/3 of all candidates. The quota by sex and the balanced participation of men and women in the service, management boards or other collective bodies of the administration has also been established. The Equality Committee, taking into account the objective of equal opportunities for women at all levels of decision-making, in political, economic and social life, set out in the UN Resolution on Sustainable Development 2015-2030, proposes in plenary the arrangements of the next electoral law to ensure equal participation of men and women in ballots and gender rotation, since this is an election with a list rather than a cross-reference. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the beautiful words of comrade Mitafidis. "The International Women's Day is a purely political anniversary and it proves it on its own historic path. Since the official introduction of 8 March, as was the Mayor, it has been coloured every time by the surrounding social, political atmosphere. Anti-war celebration in the years of war, rioting up in revolutionary periods, such as in 1917 in Czarian Russia or in 1936 in Spain, a riot of resistance to Nazi fascist occupation. Many fighters of anti-fascist resistance were tortured and executed not only by the Nazis but also by the "democratic winners" of the civil war. We need to remember all this, not like a typical memory duty, but because the slogan of American workers "Bread and Roses" that echoed the streets of New York on March 8, 1908, not only remains a timely one, but is a matter of life and death for "the land of the flattened ones". Never forget that the rights must be claimed first by those and those who deprive them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much for keeping time. Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, MP in Athens, New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is very right that the initiative to discuss an issue in the plenary of the National Representation which relates to equal participation of women in the political and social decision-making centres, a matter of purely political, social and democratic, and not of close women, such as some at times or every year, on the occasion of the International Women's Day, is trying to limit it. So the initiative is right. I would expect - and unfortunately I say this every year and every year, on the occasion of this debate - that the political leaders be present and present for a very simple reason. In the light of the debate that is taking place at the National Representation for the International Women's Day, the House of Greeks, in other words, as far as the legislation is concerned, is concerned, in order to resolve a number of issues relating to women and their equal participation, to check whether, after their vote, their implementation is a success, if the results are expected, the evaluation will be carried out so that we can see where there are gaps in implementation and weaknesses, so that they can be corrected immediately by this House. Mr President, I have a few suggestions which I think we should adopt, by means of the Rules of Procedure of the House and the practice that we need to adopt from now on, which will enable the Chief of each political party to monitor by means of the legislative procedure. In fact, I propose - and I have had the honour of doing so in the previous period as President of the Special Permanent Committee of the Parliament - that all the relevant ministers should come in every time there is legislative work in the House, in the committee responsible, first, to assess the legislative work, the laws which have been preceded and the implementation thereof, whether they have benefited or not, whether they are active or inactive, so that the House is fully aware that its legislation is taking place. Because the law is the tool that solves problems. This is one of the proposals I have to put before you. Of course, the political leaders must assess through this framework, through the legislative process, our legislative arsenal for equality and women's participation in the political and social decision-making instruments, which are the subject of today, but also of social, political, democratic equality and the prevention of the democratic deficit. One more thing. I must tell you that it is not just the reason that makes the need for equal representation of women imperative, that we should address the ears of the women's population in our countries and our country, saying that they should be equally represented. I believe that in the democratic systems, ladies and gentlemen, all citizens must have the opportunity, because it is a constitutionally guaranteed human right, guaranteed by the United Nations, to have an influence on decision-making. I also have to put another very important issue in the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a question of the legalisation of decisions. If the law does not apply to equal representation of women in decision-making centres, councils and others, throughout the administration of the state, you realise that this is a big issue, it is a big deficit and it is a matter of legalising decisions. So in the sense of this, I raise this as a matter, because we will be dealing with the very serious problem of the lack of functioning of democratic institutions, not theoretically, not pivotally, but on the substance and on the basis of the facts. We live in a democratic country, in a democratic society, we are a member of the European Union, we belong to the advanced countries of the Western world. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, we have deep-rooted asymmetry which we have to deal with. We are also called upon to address these domestic policies, policies, that is, those which either cause or combat discrimination against women and children. For the sixth consecutive year, our country has been affected by the economic crisis and now by the refugee crisis. Yesterday I had the opportunity to present a question to the Government and the relevant ministers following the reference made by the President of the Red Cross, who said that about a hundred children, who have at least come to know the Red Cross, unaccompanied minors, are being sought by their parents and their families, and the Greek state, apart from the wishes of the government, should see how children really care for themselves and how they protect childhood and disability. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a good thing to speak of words, offspring, wishes, but in practice we are judged by our effectiveness. I would therefore like to say, and I will end, that the minimum guaranteed income, Madam President, is one of the policies that must be implemented here and now. Because I have to tell you that, if we are talking about equality, poverty is the greatest factor in inequality, it is the one that is hitting absolutely, horizontally and at once, all human rights and conflicts, which we are experiencing with the enormous refugee crisis. So that is what you realise that our job here is to secure these issues, namely the minimum decent living for citizens and equal participation. And finally, because a lot has been heard lately about military service, I would like to raise an issue which I have raised as President of the women of my own party, which I have had the honour of being in charge of for at least a decade. Men serve their homeland with their military service, women serve their social service through maternity, offering children to the nation. In this sense, a woman's pension should be based, depending on the number of children, and we should at some point also see the work offered at home, which is a taxable job and has a humanitarian, social and cultural value. With these thoughts, then, I think we have a glorious field to legislate properly but also to check, Madam President, and I close with it, whether our legislation is applicable, it is effective and it produces the results, for which the Greek Parliament has legislated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u27	Mrs Saltria Vlachos, Member of the Halkidiki People's Association - Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, and the most unsuspecting ones are beginning to realize that the aim of the powerful multinational centres of power today is the nations - states, peoples, cultures. The institution of the family is more than ever, which is no coincidence since the family is the foundation stone of the nation and race. The first necessary strong foundations for maintaining and guaranteeing the future existence of a nation are built through the family, through the roles of parents, especially women - mother. Corrosion by the supposedly progressive flow of the role of the two sexes is one of the most effective weapons of these strategic designs, a weapon of demolition of everything. Let us make a historical regression to the historical and social phenomenon, the focus of which is on the female issue, in the form of a complex of economic, political, cultural, inequality and discrimination manifested in all areas of women's social and personal life. Women were also Spartan women, who said goodbye to the men of their land with the words "They or the women", before they left for the battles, wanting to highlight their national debt. This shows the courage with which ancient Greek women faced as husbands or mothers the prospect of losing their husband or son for the sake of the patron. Women were also Sulliotis, who, beyond the household, took part in war operations, and when the circumstances demanded it, without second thought, were thrown into battle. Zaloggos' dance is an eternal symbol for the woman who prefers death to dishonesty and misery. The woman who is sacrificed for herself and her children and says good-bye to sweet life. Women were Pindu's women in the war of the country against the enemy. They gave theirs present on the front line. Their offer was countless, spontaneous and self-insulting. They formed endless whales, loaded weapons, ammunition and food, and carrying wounded. But I'm afraid we're going back to days when societies treated women as things. The very equilibrium and feminist concept may have to worry about whether and whether or not it negatively affects the position of women, whether or not it leads to the collapse of society. They crush the working and social rights of citizens, especially women, and cut the wages and maternity benefits. Thousands of women are unemployed every day, while those who still have work are subject to exhaustive hours and are in several cases mistreated by employers. Young people and young people are driven into immigration. There is frustration and the possibility of creating a family is removed by women, so in a few years our Greece will be a country of old. Nowadays, therefore, women must start from the beginning, claiming equality, equality, work, life under human conditions. Recognition of women as an equal member of society enshrines it not polite laws, but constant struggles at work, at home, in society for home and religion, the timeless values that have shielded their struggles. So, keeping in mind, in our hearts, the great social role played by the woman in Greece, at all times in her history, let us also stand up, let us continue to fight, with courage and boldness, for a free and better Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u29	Thank you to Mrs Vlacho and to keep time. Now Mrs Christophilopoulou, Member of the Attica Parliament, has the floor from the PASOK Democrat Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, my dear guests, the 8th of March is nothing but a celebration. March 8 is a day that not only remembers how the women's movement started but mainly is a day of appreciation of the course of this movement. It's a day of reflection. It's a game day. That is why when, personally, as a woman and a politician, I accept wishes of the 'Happy Years' type, I say 'thank you, I am not celebrating'. I'm not celebrating, but I'm thinking. Some of these thoughts and valuations I would like to share with you on the occasion of this event of the Greek Parliament. Migration has brought many institutional - and not just - successes in the issue of gender equality. I am referring briefly to the great change in family law, the constitutionalisation - and not only in Article 4 - of gender equality, but also, of course, to subsequent laws, such as Law 3304/2005 on discrimination. So there was an institutional effort to shield equality issues, and that was very much a success. At the same time, social structures such as the 'Help at Home' programme were first created in the country, the centres for creative employment of children and children with disabilities, more nurseries, but not always enough. These institutions that are used to call them 'the harmonisation of family and working life' were aimed primarily at us, women, because it is well known that we women are also called upon to take care of home harmony and to have the opportunity to be active professionally. Today, however, as in Europe - in the rest of the world, things are worse - there is still a long way to go. There have been figures here. I do not want to tire because it is the second circle of speakers, but to note that yes, we are much more involved in unemployment, yes, even most of us are less paid for equal work and yes, we are largely the victims of domestic violence and not just the victims of domestic violence. Let's just look at the UN. That is all I'm going to say: between the couples two thirds of the victims are women. So we're all women. What are we doing about equality in practice? Most of us are MPs, mayors, district rulers. Why? Because - and here I would particularly like to talk to my own sex - our own agenda, our dear colleagues and dear friends, our participation brings us the other part, it brings not the 'other half of heaven', it brings the bright part to politics, because politics is many times for wars, for violence and less for the structures I have mentioned, for education, for peace. That's what we bring. Be careful, I do not believe that the Greeks - yes, I am very proud to be Greek - are 'the wealthy people', as has been heard here. I believe very much and I am proud of what we have done, but I also recognise the mistakes we have made as Greeks. We are neither Greeks, nor we women are superior to men - not at all - because this is how many people like to mock our ears and tell us: "But women are the strong sex." That's not the point. The point is that this harmony has to do with the harmony of priorities between the sexes, and that is deeply worthwhile, just as in a family things are better when women and men together decide - they do not decide one or the other, together they decide - and children grow more harmoniously. It is the same in a municipality where women and men - and more women and men - can be more harmonious, and decisions can be more harmonious, because the women's agenda is a different agenda. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I'm going to need some tolerance. I will not get over time much, but I would like to refer to two three proposals. They've heard here and suggestions. It is here and the President of Parliament, and I therefore believe that my proposal can also be considered. It is good that there are speakers from the parties, it is good that these anniversarys are made, but it is even better to establish an assessment every year and to be presented to the House, not only of the institutional steps that have been taken, but above all of whether equality has been achieved in practice. And there are indicators and measurements for the House to discuss, more specifically, how much in every policy, in industrial policy, in education policy, in social policy, we have, however, put - not only institutionalally - the perspective of gender, the famous main streaming, how in every policy we have achieved it either by means of the legislations, but also by the government, Minister and Minister, who are today in the cabinets. So it is good that the Greek Parliament should go one step further and every day, ending this session, Mr President of Parliament, to be able to say some conclusions on how we went about equality. Because it's not just a question of democracy, it's also a question of development. I want to finish with a report from the hard business world. There had been an investigation between 2000 and 2010 - I do not have the time, but I have the data - on the very - very aggressive hedge funds and the performance of women was much better than that of men. By 2.65% better than men, during these years, women went to their portfolios. It means, then, that if we have a little confidence and self-esteem, and a little better, a little more harmonious relationship between us, women and men, men and women, we can make the world better, we can make our country better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. Ms Diamanto Manolakou, MP for the Second Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u32	International Women's Day is a racing day, because it comes from and continues with the voice of the New York tailor in 1857, who won an equal wage for equal work with her male companions. It is the voice of the Labour Movement fighter, Clara Chetkin, and the socialists of the 1910 Conference, who established this day. It is the voice of the sixty workers of the "RETSINA" textile industry, who in 1892 made the first female strike in Greece, when their miserable share was reduced, while the bosses acquired their fifth factory. It is the bloodthirsty voice of the tobacco workers of 1924, 1926, 1936 and all women who claim what they own and deprive them of, even the return to the childbirth allowance, as well as solidarity, especially to the women of refugee, who with babies and children embrace or even pregnant seek security against the imperialist war that sows death and refugee. This struggle continues because none of the causes that have taken thousands of people to the streets have been extinguished. In particular, in the government's "debtability" plan, more were added, which justifies the escalation of the struggle and a forty-eight-hour strike. All this demonstrates that the working people's movement needs the participation of women in the working class, but also women have an absolute need for the working people's movement, rooted in every workplace, to claim but also to confront hypocrisy, the wishes about women's participation in decision-making and in the institutions of power, the insinuations to support women's entrepreneurship and so on, which are promoted by the European Union's policy and the Greek urban governments, which aim to capture working women and to convince them that politics is determined by gender and not by the order of those who exercise it, to multiply, that is, their mechanisms of manipulation. Truly, what woman of the people has the financial potential and comfort, but also the necessary free time, since all the burdens of the household, of bringing up children, of caring for the elderly are loaded on her back? However, it is a propagandaist argument and bait in integration and manipulation, through quotas and the promotion of women, both in government institutions and in the administration of businesses. They find ideal ground for women in working class and in popular classes, who are not only foreign but also hostile to their own class interests and should not have any illusions about the role of bourgeois women in political institutions, offices and administrative positions. Moreover, the total attack on capital is also made by women in the bourgeoisie and other institutional positions, where they are consistently represented and without any resentment of their class and interests. But they are trying, with the soothing pill of participation in decision-making centres, to cover anti-grassroots policy from their eyes, eradicating the class difference and thus the different opposite interests that objectively have of women in urban order. They seek, in other words, to make them draw up behind the arguments and views of their exploiters, when even this right to motherhood is not supported by elementary benefits. They have no right to self-employed small businessmen, rural women, scientists on leave and benefits such as childbirth or other social benefits. Therefore the emergence of the female issue as a component of the class exploitation of the very capitalist system is what consolidates the dominance of the bourgeoisie, because the female issue was not born from the defeat of the woman in her struggle with the man but from the integration of the female sex into the status of class exploitation. That is why equality and the struggle for emancipation of women presupposes the activation and participation of women in the anti-capitalist, anti-monopoly struggle. After all, we know well that the conquests of women in socialism, built in the 20th century, were multiple. They had permanent and stable work on the subject in which they had been educated and trained, with fewer working hours a week than in the capitalist countries, with a time of rest and development of the cultural and educational level, as well as strengthening and participation in labour power and control of the production units. And the victory of the counter-revolution also meant a loss of women's conquests. So with this experience, we're fighting. In this spirit and with these principles, we call on men and women today, International Women's Day, at gatherings for women against the imperialist wars of NATO, the USA and the European Union, for the insurance and refugee sector, organized by PAME, PASSEVE, PASY, OGA in the Propylaea of Athens at 18:30, as well as in other cities in Greece. So, day after day, fighting and fighting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr Lykoudis, MP from Athens, has the floor from Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, by honouring today in this Chamber on this World Women's Day, we should remember two important moments when it comes to our own country. In 1837 he opened the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and received the first student fifty three years later. In 1856, sixty-five years later, Lina Tsaldari is elected for the first time by the ERA and Vasa Thanasekou from the ESA. In today's House, colleagues are fifty-four, fourteen less than the previous Parliament, in my opinion - a good figure which is satisfactory to its measures, but not sufficient to meet any criteria. There are so many women colleagues as a result of positive action, namely the quota on the candidate lists in the whole of the territory. And it would be good to maintain this measure until social conditions allow it to be abolished, so that women can no longer be treated as a minority that needs special measures to emerge. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country we honour the participation of women in the national, political and social struggles which have shaped the face of modern Greece, struggles and sacrifices at many levels. We must never forget the disproportionate burden women have borne. However, we should also not miss the fact that the positive effects of the international and European environment have affected our legislation and attitudes. In addition to the political rights that so passionately and sacrificed and achieved the first feminist movements in the last century, social progress, the improvement of social conditions in the post-war era, the historic achievement of the labour movement and the progressive political forces of the Left and Social Democrat Republic with the creation and support of the social state and the raising of the standard of living, were all those that allowed the turning of claims to be made equally serious, such as domestic violence, contraception, abortions, issues that had not touched the movements earlier, issues that were directly related to the control of women's personal life and their emancipation, and which had to be addressed with established religious, ideological, cultural and other perceptions and informal institutions, traditions and systems. The shocking 1960s, despite its exaggerations in these matters, showed the way. The demands have rightly remained not only in the provision of social services and in the redistribution of wealth. Their radical character has consistently changed the personal life of women and relations with males. And as many as we grew up in this shocking and subversive decades, we still breathe its perfume. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough legislation on equality alone. After all, we have a quite modern institutional framework. We must focus also on the real problems, removing obstacles economically, socially, culturally and worthwhilely. For example, unemployment rates in women and young women are 57%, according to ELSTAT figures for the first quarter of 2015. They are higher than the average in our country and employment rates are lower. The payroll gap in relation to men is 15%, according to ELSTAT's figures, despite legal equality in pay. In other words, I would like to stress that, in addition to improving the general conditions, if we do not adopt policies that harmonise professional, family and personal life as far as possible - for example, simple child care structures - we cannot expect a significant improvement in the situation of equal participation in decision-making centres. Who can object to the need to protect the most vulnerable groups of women, the unemployed, the young, the immigrants, the women of refugees, the disabled women, the women of religious and ethnic minorities, the Roma, women who live and live in island and mountain areas, women who fall victim to modern forms of violence, namely slavery, sexual exploitation, rape and domestic violence? For example - I draw the data from the website of the General Secretariat of Equality - in the period 2011-2013, the telephone line 'S.O.S.', which provides psychosocial support and plays an advisory role in women victims of violence, received ten thousand thousand seventy-six calls, 70% of which involved complaints of domestic violence. A serious role on the issue of women's position and role is also played by the mass media. The stereotypes they emit are stereotypes that often lead to what we call sexism and what we call a specific approach to the role and status of women. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried, as far as I could on the basis of time, to show in a very lacking manner only certain aspects relating to the real differences between the sexes. The efforts which we all have to do concern many areas and many levels. For example, I was thinking - and I am not saying it as a charming observation, but I say it, because I thought it seriously - why half the traffic signals should not have female figures as sketches and only have the known 'State' and 'Grogory' s sketches which directly refer to the case of a male form? Why? Our effort must be continuous, ladies and gentlemen, and allow me to end my speech with some resentment of a famous American feminist, Gloria Steinem, without one - and I sincerely say it - of the intention to undermine other perceptions or situations and other lifestyles and personal choices. He said, therefore, that the specific feminist: "A liberated woman is the one who has sexual life before marriage and definitely post-marriage work." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Ladies and gentlemen, before I invite the next speaker in Stepa, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having participated in the educational program "The Restoration of the Republic", which is organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 6th General High School of Nea Smyrni. We welcome you to the House, which makes the special meeting in honor of women, because today is 8th, a global anniversary for women's celebration. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] On behalf of the Independent Greeks Mr Konstantinos Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the disadvantage - even though I have the honour - to speak from this step, at this plenary session in honour of the WOMEN World Celebration, the sixth speaker and tired colleagues, because the Chamber and the beginning of the sitting and until now it was and remains empty. This is characteristic, let me point out, on the one hand, that the woman of Parliament is not involved in this worthwhile and important event but, on the other hand, in her abstention at the meeting of the men's colleagues, who I am sure are in favour of women's rights and equal participation and of her treatment to any extent of her social and political progress. It is, ladies and gentlemen, one day important, a celebration that has its roots, that is to say, started and established by the protest of the women themselves, which took place in the early 20th century, in Europe and in the United States of America, calling for equal rights, better working conditions and the right to vote. It was established in 1977 by the United Nations, which called on all countries in the world to celebrate on the day for women's rights. Over time, the image of women now has substantial changes. The woman used to perceive herself as less dynamic and autonomous, mainly because she had to stay at home, not to work and mainly to raise up children and work in the house. This resulted in their personal needs coming to second fate. So it was the man who had the greatest power in the family, from an economic point of view and not just. In recent years, of course, things have been quite differentiated and the position of women has changed considerably in society. The modern woman is called upon to respond to multiple roles, to that of the devoted wife, the loving mother, the working wife and the good housewife. In its attempt to respond successfully to all of this, there is great stress and stress. It is very important to mention that the woman must keep the delicate balances that are required between her obligations as a mother and a householder on the one hand and as a worker on the other. Its first role in the family is that of nature, that of the mother, a truly important and special role. Her involvement with children is the best investment for their future. It is the mother’s role that reduces frictions and at the same time increases the mood for creativity. At the same time, the role of the mother is followed by the role of the wife. The modern woman has to cope successfully with husband’s care, to be interested in his good mental and physical health, to discuss whatever problems she has and to reassurance him. This is how it is achieved to maintain peace and balance within the family. Also as a worker the woman has proved, that she is not lacking, and that she can achieve the goals she sets, through her work, her knowledge and personality. As far as equal participation of women in political and social decision-making centres is concerned, it is undoubtedly one of the basic principles of democracy of fundamental value, which aims to preserve the social fabric of every place. Their underrepresentation is not only due to institutional factors but also to the causes associated with the quality of democracy, political culture, religion and social traditions. I personally believe that women's presence and contribution will be expressed in such a way that it will contribute greatly to a balance of situations and issues that the country is currently facing and will help very much in this direction. At this point let me tell you that it is the woman who, either because of the old attitude in society or because of the man who has prevented her from being what she wants today, has adapted to a situation where, by herself, voluntarily and self-advisedly, it does not want to be what we all want today, that is, the existence of an equal percentage of women and men in decision-making centres and, more generally, in the political life of the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. It is the woman herself who refuses to take part in political and social development actions. And at this point I would like to make a reference to one of my personal experiences from the past. During municipal elections, being a mayor's candidate, I remember attributes that we were trying to find women with great difficulty in order to draw up the ballot and achieve 1/3, a necessary percentage for the validity of the ballots. Today 1/3 is for men, 1/3 is for women and the remaining 1/3 is supplementing, ladies and gentlemen, 3/3 is from both sexes. There is therefore no question of equality here. It seems to me that there is a question of inequality if, as Mr Kara Yusuf said, we see and consider the participation of women by 50% in the list vote and remain 1/3 in the battle roll with the cross. So, by pursuing equality rather than gender inequality, I do not think that at this point equality, which we all support, has been perpetuated and defended by women. To conclude, I would like to make it clear that the woman - as I know from my own experience - has never been prevented from taking part in the political and social decision-making centres on an equal footing. In closing my speech, I would like to stress that we must all fight to eliminate any discrimination that is left, inequality and injustice, to the detriment of women. To stop the anachronistic social stereotypes. I am thinking more of Greek society and Greek democracy, whose rules I believe are a protection shield for women's rights. It is for the social, economic and political life of the country to be involved and is not without them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u37	Last speaker is Mr.Ioannis Saridis, MP of the 1st Thessaloniki, from the Centroon Association. It will be followed by the greetings of the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, who has honoured me at this special sitting by the Bureau. I thank him, because at such a meeting the Presidents of the House always want to be in the Bureau. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for six minutes, please, because we've come a long way from time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with a reference to women who, over the years, have been abducting them. In women, who participate in an event because of the very celebration of today's day have no meaning for them, because in their souls there is dense darkness. The position of women today in our society can typically be improved. But how many women woke up today with fear as first thought? How many women will be afraid today, how will their husband return home? How many women hide their tears about the signs they have? How many women are hiding these marks from their children? How many women today will make their prayers, begging God to help them with the blows for the sake of their children? How many women are shaking at the time of the revelation of the drama they are experiencing, why are they ashamed? How many women are ashamed to speak openly about their rape? How many men beat their wives? How many men crippled a woman last year and nobody's ever gonna know about it? Answers are scary. The evidence is shaking. I won't mention numbers. It is not the figures that can describe the scale of the problem. These sins are not measured by statistics. As today, on March 8, 1857, workers at the tailors' barracks of New York came to a great strike, which basically marked the start of the painful struggle for women's formal and effective gender equality. This race has not stopped until today and the reason is simple. Discrimination against women has not been stopped. There are places on the planet that forbid women to form. There are states that allow minor girls with defensive men to marry under trade agreements. There are people who are offended by the image of a nursing mother in a public place. There are women slaves, women slaves, women underhand in sick mountains. The reasons that led Ara Theodorakopoulos to establish in 1920 the Association for Women's Rights in Greece have not been omitted. Unfortunately, also in our country, the effects of domestic violence are rising. Our society continues to look the other way. The economic crisis has aggravated the situation, as many are those who break the frustration of a woman in their own lives. I would also like to make a reference to the specific issue of today's event, which is about the participation of women in the decision-making centres. It is deeply rooted in Greek culture that the idea that women are more than able to participate in the public. Aristophanes arranged to present all aspects of the essential role of the woman in society in his amazing and timely time-consuming comedy, the "Lysistratis" and the "Churches". From there one can draw a number of arguments to support the idea that the world might have been better if women were in power. On the other hand, the role of a woman has such demands, which she just can't catch up with. We should all ask ourselves, those of us who are called upon to represent the citizens, what could help real equality between the two sexes and how we will achieve as a society, to enjoy the benefits of the female way of thinking. It is clear that a basic time difference between men and women remains the choice of priorities. For a woman it may be more important to secure family peace, while for a man it may be more important to meet the needs of the family. Clearly, both are just as necessary. But they cannot be served at the same time by both. So let us make a wish: the two sexes will find the balance needed between them and do what they can to do at all levels and, above all, to participate in decision-making, for a better world with peace, without wars, without poverty, without refugees, without refugees. We need you. We need you to deliver to our children tomorrow's women, a better life, a better country, a sure future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much. I would ask the President-in-Office of the Parliament to give a brief welcome. However, Mr President, you have chosen the end, which the whole world has left, but that is precisely what is modest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u40	Alas. I think that today's debate is very useful for one main reason. Because in public for anyone who wants to watch, all the opinions on the women's issue, the feminist movement, the viewpoints of the parties on women, with creepy words - differentiations and very serious differences of opinion, which have been set out directly on the basis of the parties' programming opinions. It was, therefore, a useful, highly political process, beyond a unilateral - possibly - hymnology of one or other character, which would be at a conference or another event. So let me also express a few views which, of course, go beyond our personal space, namely SYRIZA, of which I am a Member. Ladies and gentlemen, our society has not only stopped but has, at the same time, been more colored by its class stratification and conflicts on the basis of this stratification but also by the existence and reproduction of andro-state perceptions and patriarchal models. In this sense, discrimination has been and is present and this can be proved. It's not about obsessing and idealizing anyone. It can be proved and proved within life itself. The domestic violence and all that has been mentioned, as well as the issues of the manipulation and reproduction of roles, which expel women outside the public sphere and politics, are, of course not equal, of course not in the same way, through special routes - all classes. This proves not with research and statistics, with the experience we all have through life and pre-crisis and in the crisis and in all countries and all continents. This is very clear, and it is precisely inspiring the field of multiple discrimination and inequalities both at social and at personal level. And if something was started from somewhere that they are now accepting, that is, that the staff are political and that there were policies on this distinction that has developed - it started precisely from the reproduction of these equalitys. Let me tell you that the request for women's emancipation, in this sense, is present, is alive and unfortunately is unfulfilled. Because the powerful structures that exist within our society, with the first loss, if you like, which defines what comes through serious, class discrimination but which is not the only one, bring this demand for emancipation to the surface. And, of course, it is a matter of collective action by the women's movement and the existence of a new boom of the women's movement and it is not a question - at least at least - of individual awareness, as was presented in certain respects. At the same time, there are two things happening and we see it: there is a great weakness of the mass movement to put these issues in a war situation that we are in the crisis, with increasing differences at all levels. At the same time, there is also a service to some or most media in stereotypes, roles, sexistic patterns that ensue in society, engaging in the body of education and everyday life, these distinct roles with the degradation and manipulation of women, but there is also a great hypocrisy of the political system. And if we are here today, men and women, we can only talk about this. Because it is right and serious steps have been taken and there have been very good proposals, even in today's debate, for the further introduction and enrichment of the formal and legislative requirements for equality. But in practice, the essential conditions have not been created and the essential conditions are not cultivated that will help women to participate in all the institutions, not only in the House but in the trade union movement, in the municipalities, wherever political representation exists. Because I like to speak with arguments, I will speak with arguments to tell you exactly, not to fight with them. Let's fight each other. It is clear, for example, that the quotas do not apply to the executive bodies of the parties. They don't apply to any party. In other words, even there, in addition to the legislation that applies throughout the country to quotas, etc., to their central committees, to our central committees, there are the quotas provided for in the statutes, but they are still declining until most of them have been reduced. Perhaps not at all, but I now tell you about the vast majority of executive bodies, from the government to the parties, to all the activities that exist in all the institutions, trade unions and elsewhere. That's clear. I should like to tell you something else, which can be seen as detail, but it has also happened to give a personal battle because I have two small children with my wife: how much can women participate in the multi-day conferences and in the years to come - and it must be, it is not the case - political processes of parties and trade unions, etc.Huh? How much can they do in relation to their domestic commitments and what do we get as a precondition? That's why I'm talking about non-functional conditionality. What measures are we taking to make this possible? How many conferences are there children's stations next door, which I saw in 1987 at the GDR conference in Germany, which I had been to represent at the time? Today, in 2016, where parties' conferences take place, how is it expected to be next to a nursery or nursery in those hours and days it takes? I tell you, therefore, that the House has ensured with it and considers it self-evident that we have a nursery and nursery station. It goes without saying that we need the nursery and nursery service even for the workers and not just for the MPs, when we sit here until twelve, one, two o'clock in the morning, some days less or more. How else could women and men in this workplace respond to their duties? This self-evident in how many Ministries is there, in how many places of work is there, in how many institutionalised centres are there, in how many municipalities are there? Let's ask ourselves. However, these are the real conditions - I can tell you many other things - on the basis of which legislation could be implemented. Isn't there a veil of silence on the victims of violence? Is sexist speech not unanswered within the day-to-day functioning of the political system at all levels? How much, then, do we defend these legislation? On the contrary, therefore, all this absolutely confirms that, even now, in crisis conditions and despite the serious steps taken, there is in any case that leads to multiple inequalities and serious discrimination within the social fabric. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the existence, encouragement, reconstruction, if you like, of a women's movement will be an important prerequisite. It will not just be a movement, it obviously had its multiplicity always, when it was expressed and when it was developed, regardless of what dimension and what sign each one of us gives. In our country it will be an important condition, so that the political system will work differently. Let me tell you that unfortunately within the political system - but also in general, not only in this House, but even in the panels where political men and women are present - I have more often heard - unfortunately - an apologetic, an annoying speech, that is, 'I am not a feminist'. And by women who have their own journeys, the opportunity they have and their values, I have more often heard this "I am not a feminist" in recent years, a defensive speech towards the different picture that the whole society has in order to continue to exist, despite the opposite, i.e. the fight against the need for women's emancipation at all levels: social, staff and, of course, political with the presence here. This is obviously neither reproach nor complaint. It is how each one of us feels when he is oppressed, when he sees an entire system operating on a different watch, trying to exterminate him, trying to set him up, when someone doesn't say any stereotypes to be considered legal, real and equal. And it starts from there and beyond the whole story, according to my own - let me - opinion. We have nothing to be jealous of. All the streets are open, it is enough for each one to understand it, so that we can finally play the role to a certain extent - the male and male role - and within the political life of the place. So, first of all, this battle will be fought by colleagues, MPs, parliamentarians, and, let us say what they want, as we want together to decide together - but we should all realise that in today's day, we should see the historical evolution of this movement, of these discriminations and its print in the social body today. To help us all through our parties and through the collective processes, so that there can be real growth both in our own country and our own continent. And as the President rightly said, in relation to other continents, our own has a more privileged position for women in the sense of safeguards. We're gonna have to fight this fight. In front of us is to have successes. In front of us are our girls and boys, but especially our girls, so that they can live in a different, more equitable world with a more equal role and have a more equitable reason and can really have overcome or overcome every day this double and triple oppression in which they are found. And whoever doesn't understand that and doesn't recognize that, does a lot of harm to him, to his children and to his country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u41	Thank you to the President of Parliament for the touching closure and politically correct. At this point I would like to make a statement to this House: The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Foreign and Census of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on cooperation in European Union matters'. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to thank all those who have been here to thank you for your presence, your courage, for your interest. The special agenda of the House was completed. Thank you very much. I think it was a multi-collective dialogue with multiple approaches that gave a particular honour to the House, which organised this event, both to the speakers and to the women and men involved. Thank you all very much. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-08-S1-commons.u42	With the agreement of the House at 13.55 minutes the sitting is closed for Wednesday, Wednesday, 9 March 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
