ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-9-2016, the PKK's PKK's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau at its meeting of Wednesday, 21 September 2016, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law: "Structuring of the 14-11-2014 EKY Stock Sales Contract for the acquisition of 100% of the EKLENIC S.A.'s share capital. and from 19-07-2016 Amending Convention and Arrangement of Related Issues’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our first question with number 1277/19-9-2016, the second question of the Dodecanese MP, the Radical Left Coalition, and Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister of Finance, on the increase in the prices for renting beaches on the islands. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Alexiadis. Please, Mr Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u3	Minister, I can't understand this coincidence. All the questions I have asked are addressed to you, although I have great appreciation for you and you are successful in your work. Looks like that's the object you've got. But I'm going to the point. I had already asked a question before and, more generally, about the measures on the islands that have problems with the refugee crisis and, in particular, I had taken as an example the price of granting beaches, as well as on these islands, there were increases and even excessive ones, when they were in trouble. And I mentioned Kos as a typical example. Following this, and the Secretary-General of the Public Property, Mr Majakos, on 23-5-2016, had sent a document to the Regional Public Property Directorate of the Aegean Sea, to take into account this fact, and with your own document on 27-5-2016, after the timely question I had tabled, you asked the Secretariat-General to take into account the problems that have arisen in these islands. Still, nothing happened. Increases were maintained. Here comes a question, Minister. Does the services not take into account the orders of the Ministers and the Secretary-General? Who makes politics? Indeed, in such matters, which concern not the daily lives of the citizens, but their survival in particular in these circumstances. And beyond the general conditions, we have the most special on the islands. And you see from the information you yourself provided for VAT the day before yesterday how poor it is to collect it - and not because of any controls - on the islands that had a problem with immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u4	First of all, before I give you the floor, Mr Alexiadis, to say that questions to the ministers have nothing to do with personal appreciation to the ministers. Questions have nothing to do with the subject. The assessment is given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u6	You're welcome. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for the question, because we are given the opportunity to inform the citizens and to respond to the obligation that we have in this House on these issues. After all, you have proved by repeated interventions, and in the form of questions and interventions in legislation, your interest in your region and the acute problems caused by the refugee flows in this region. Regarding specifically the issue, the Government's view has been clearly formulated in the document you mentioned from 27-5-2016, which came after your own question that was discussed in Parliament on 23-5-2016 on this matter. Then, in a document we sent to the General Secretariat of the Public Property, we said it was necessary for the General Secretariat of the Public Property to exhaust any possibility of strengthening - alleviating - the inhabitants and businesses on these islands, always moving within the existing legal framework and ensuring the interests of the public. In particular for the rental prices of space during the tourist season, all possible steps must be taken to support these islands, and especially the regions which have accepted and accepted refugee flows. That was the direction taken by the political leadership and that is specific. I think there is no clearer wording. Now, as far as the question you are asking is concerned, if what we say as political leadership goes down to the services, or whether or not the services implement the orders, we could talk about the hours because I have too many examples of cases where Parliament - not the government, because we as government, if we want to do something, have to go through the House - have come up with specific regulations and specific decisions. Unfortunately, some feel they can interpret the laws themselves as they want and trouble citizens or businesses. We do not always have the implementation of legislation or decisions that we should have, precisely to move in this direction. However, as far as this case is concerned and not to blame anyone. The Regional Department of Public Property of the Aegean since 31 May responds to this document and in writing calls for the possibility of a discount of up to 20% on the total rented rent for the simple use of agialou in the form of a directive to the municipalities located on the eastern border of the country. This discount will be granted at the discretion of the municipality concerned under the 20% limitation mentioned above on the basis of its particular knowledge of the current situation. The discount will be granted by the percentage for the municipality, since the vast majority of the leases are for completion and the amount for the Greek State has already been paid. This process, in other words, is a matter of the municipalities, because this year, as you know, on the basis of the decision the municipalities had this responsibility for this story. Well, be sure I'll check the whole case. I'm going to answer to my denture about what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u8	Please, Mr Kamaterre, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this document to the municipalities, unfortunately, has not been communicated and nothing has been done. I don't know if anyone else did. Anyway, I know it didn't happen to some people. I now hope that with publicity the municipalities will take this into account and alleviate our citizens who have not repaid these debts, because it is not enough that they had a problem last year, because of last year's picture. On this occasion, however, I would like to say to you more generally about these islands, because at the moment we are discussing it - and I know that you are also discussing it - that measures which we have promised, but are also provided for in the summer agreement, that if the economics are going well, we will either be able to reintroduce some measures that we have abolished or relieve some social groups, classes or regions. In this context, we are waiting for your proposals. In the bills that will come, there's a job, we're part of it, and we're recommending. You will allow me to make two separate points, which are very serious and you must take them into account. Firstly, with regard to the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT on the other islands - the information which has been left to the public the other day on the collection of VAT on the islands - it seemed clear that in most islands VAT collection has increased. This is not due to the increase in the rate, but to the improvement of the collection, because there is a study by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which says that the revenue from the increase in VAT on the islands was not expected. So this improvement is from the good operation of the Services, although there are complaints - you will know these things and I know that it is difficult to solve all of them, but I'm sure you're trying - that the little ones are paying again and the big ones are not in control. I know that control over large businesses is more difficult and do not see immediate results. I hope they will look from there in the near future. So as far as VAT is concerned, because at the end of the year this scheme expires, I would ask that we try to maintain it at least in the islands which had a problem with the refugee problem, because it is of great importance. It is of great importance because everything that is being removed is being reintroduced. If we keep the reduced rate, it'll be one of the few things we have for islandity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It's the last thing I'm gonna say. Secondly, we see from time to time your decisions - and you are doing well - suspending payment of public obligations to areas with natural disasters and various other problems. You're doing very well. But I would ask you to bear in mind that mind is, without misunderstanding, a problem - again without any misunderstanding, because we have shown how much we are interested in the people who come and how we host them, but it is a problem, as we do - and in the islands that have these flows and could correspondingly give a six-month suspension of debts, as we give to the other regions. It will be very important for these islands, especially in the winter that the season, which was very low, up to 50%, has not gone well, up to 60% in some businesses, to take a breath in the winter. I think that you can find the way, in line with the other decisions on the other regions, to do so for these islands as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u11	I shall conclude the previous one and reply immediately to the points you have raised. It will be controlled by the Ministry of Finance, if what was given as a direction that was quite reasonable, i.e. there will be a reduction, a reduction of up to 20% in rental prices, it has arrived and if it has been implemented. I will inform you in writing of who has not finally implemented this direction of the government. For we sometimes see on radios and television some to blame the government for analgesia and a lot of other things. We want to see in this regard how various local rulers and a number of other factors responded. They'll be checked and you'll have full information. As far as the very correct issues you raised about the islands, as you know from No4334/16 are concerned, there is the State's commitment that the progress towards increasing public revenue will be re-examined, whether in the case of the islands or in general. The increase in VAT on the islands was not a political option, it was a political necessity, which we led through this agreement. Let me remind you of the vast majority with which both Law No4334 and Law No4336 were passed, despite the fact that some now come and blame us for what they have voted on. It's all right! It proves one's responsibility. Especially now for the islands, of course, and we are looking at how economic relief and response measures can be taken, on the part of the state, to the terrible problem that has arisen there. As far as VAT matters you said before, quite rightly, are concerned, it appears from the information we made yesterday that what happened with the August VAT VAT, which was collected in July and appeared in August. Of course, this has not been much heard on the news, because it does not fit disaster and all the propaganda and all that some media and political forces have been trying to set up throughout this period. Because they mind showing that on some islands we increased VAT of 150%, 170%, which we could not even think about. This is the result, however, of certain checks, of specific coordination and is not the result of Alexiadis. I do not say it in that sense. It is the result of a collective effort at the Ministry of Finance. So, as far as this is concerned, I would also like to say that some journalists have read geography in Greece. Zakynthos, Corfu, had no reduced VAT rates that increased and therefore the revenue increase is justified by that. For some in blindness, to hit the government, to misinform themselves, do not even read elementary things. They say that this increase in VAT in August came from an increase in the VAT rate, when there are islands which have not increased at all, which have had the same VAT in the previous period. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In conclusion, I say that we will look very seriously at the very good proposal you are tabling, namely to deal with the islands, in relation to the refugee flows, in accordance with the procedures that the law allows, and to look at areas affected by natural disasters or disasters, where we are granting an extension of tax obligations. This proposal will be considered and I will reply to you soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. I have the honour to announce to this House a document to the Greek Parliament of the Secretary-General of the Government, Mrs Kaloger, which states which ministers and why they cannot attend today and answer questions. In particular, no 1276/19-9-2016 and 1270/14-9-2016 questions of the competent ministers will be answered and redefined for discussion. As a coma of Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Pavlakis, the workload is mentioned. These questions are the first with number 1276/19-9-2016 timely question of the first cycle of SYRIZA MP Carditsa Mr. Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Health, on the prospects for the more effective functioning of the Centre for Natural Rehabilitation and Medical Rehabilitation (KEFIAP) Karditsa. Also, the sixth question under number 1270/14-9-2016 is a topical question for the second question of the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the staff of the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Papagorgios". The Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr Marina Chrysovelonis, also has a coma due to the commitments made. The relevant questions are the third with number 1267/13-9-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the MP Magnesia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Panagiotis Iliopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the need for the operation of the airport of Anchialos Magnesia and the conduct of regular international flights on a permanent basis. Also, the eighth under No 1269/13-9-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Union of Centres Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the need to redesign the routes of “TRAINOSE” to cover the Peloponnese. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, also has a coma due to miserable obligations. Thus, the sixth question will not be answered under No 1274/16-9-2016, first question by the Member of the Potamis Lassis, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister of Health, on problems in the field of mental health. Nor will the first answer be given under number 6379/438/23-6-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP II Athens, Nea Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, on the provision of services of mental health by AMKE (Athens Non-Profit Company) with the financing of the Ministry of Health, due to the unsettled obligations of Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Finally, the fifth answer under No 1284/19/2016 is not going to be answered by the current second question of the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Health, on the enormous problems of the anti-drug agencies' operation due to the unsuccessful obligations of Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Also, the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Nikolaos Toskas, has a workload coma. Thus, the seventh question, no. 1281/19-9-2016, will not be answered for the first time by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the analogue radios of the Greek Police. Furthermore, for the same reason, the third question, with number 1272/15-9-2016, will not be answered by Evia MP of the People's Golden Association Mr.Nikolaou Michou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the conduct of a thorough inquiry into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos. The Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Konstantinos Fotakis, also has a coma due to the commitments made. Thus, the second answer under number 1279/19-9-2016 will not be answered in the context of the current second question of the Parliamentary Kastoria of the New Democracy, Maria Antonios, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the need to immediately deposit the Greek State Convention with the European Investment Bank (EIB) on the financing of the research. The Minister for Finance, Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, also has a working burden. Thus, the seventh question, number 1241/8-9-2016, on the scandalous sale of “TRAINOSE” by MP Evia of the People's Golden Liberation Association, Mr. Nicholas Michou, to the Minister of Finance, will not be answered. In addition, due to the absence of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Georgios Katrugalos will not answer the eighth question under number 1242/8-9-2016 on the second question of the Congress of the People's Association of Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Aivatidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the inability to set up the beneficiaries in the workplace of St. Ioannis Corfu. We move to the fifth, with number 1283/19-9-2016, a top-level question by the Member of Parliament, Atolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the damage to crops and facilities from recent catastrophic floods in Elia. The timely question will be answered by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, anger and indignation prevail in the inhabitants of Western Greece, in the Peloponnese, but also in other regions of the country which have been affected lately by severe rainfall. In particular, the inhabitants of Western Greece and more specifically the Prefecture of Elias were faced with the total lack of infrastructure for flood protection and armour in their area. Especially at the Tower, the damage was too great. In some crops the disaster was total. This was done in the raisins, greenhouses and other infrastructures. After September 6 and 8 and three days ago we also had new storm disasters in the region. We have huge disasters in the Municipality of Andavida, in the Municipality of Kyllini, in the Municipality of Pyrgos, the former municipality of Oleni. These damages are about 100% crops, as I said: greenhouses, grapes and corn, but also other infrastructures. The concern of the affected is growing and anger is prevailing because since the visit of a government stadium, which you were in charge, you have made vague promises. In particular, you have almost no answer that these damages will be compensated by the ELGA. You did this because ELGA is a tax-fixing mechanism that has a single objective: to decouple farmers and not compensate them, because basic diseases and catastrophes are coming out of the ELGA regulation, which exist in plant, animal products, but also in fixed capital. Especially for the raisin, you told them that they couldn't compensate because they weren't in the climate, they were on the verge. For the greenhouses you told them that these too cannot be compensated because the plants were not in the greenhouses. The affected residents of the region, who have this indignation, are not only confronted with the weather phenomena that you are baptizing extremistly. Extremely is your anti-Flemish policy, Minister, which creates these huge problems and leaves farmers and people unprotected. The major damage was done because the projects were nonexistent: drainage networks of irrigation channels, rivers, torrentials, cleaning of wells in residential areas. This results in these huge disasters both in this region and in general in the country. Minister, we ask you to answer specifically. Beyond that, however, there is a direct record of damages and compensation for the affected, which will cover 100% of the damage, and for the production, harvest, but also for the fixed capital and infrastructure, machinery, which are not compensated. To do all this, Minister, we ask the OGA to be an exclusive state agency which will protect the livelihood of poor medium-sized farmers. Otherwise we will be in such situations all the time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, do not forget that almost half of Greece in the region is currently in an emergency because of the damage caused by natural phenomena. We have the knowledge, because on the spot we are visiting all the regions and we find out what has really happened. Last Friday, on the 16th of the month, I visited the affected areas, which you referred to in your question, together with the President of the ELGA. Indeed there, both in Lehana and Bartholomew, especially in these areas, the damage was very great. We have even worked with the Regional Director, with the mayors, with the MPs, with the farmers themselves, to see how these damages will be dealt with as far as possible, so as to alleviate the truly unpleasant impact we have had on farmers in the region. Furthermore, it is not that this visit was useful to see the picture, but mainly because it is an area in which significant investments have been made in the agricultural sector towards an innovative, extroversion and competitive agriculture. We are talking about that much of the production of these regions is exported abroad, and even on competitive conditions. So we absolutely had to have the image and at the same time commit ourselves to what we are going to do. Because you insist on this that we were vague. In the damage you are referring to, I would like to say that the necessary points have been made by the ELGA. There's been an ad and statements submitted. The work of individualized assessments is under way. This cannot be done immediately. Of course, all the findings of the assessments will be communicated to us and then the payment of the allowances to the beneficiaries will be followed, provided they are insured in the ELGA. We are talking about damage covered by the ELGA premium relating to production and livestock, which is found in ovine and caprine animals and apiculture. But we didn't just have that damage. We had herbal damage, citrus crops, vines, oilseeds. We had livestock damage, fixed capital, stables and warehouses, for example. But above all we have been damaged in greenhouses, where the damage is really characteristic, the image. If you see it's really tragic what's happened in the greenhouses in the area. Of course we also had in stored products. All of this will be recorded and in accordance with the Regulation on State aid, the relevant dossier will be drawn up, submitted to the European Commission and in the framework of the regulations which they approve or do not approve of the proposals in question, and the corresponding compensation will be paid. They are known as PEAs, which are covered by the state budget. Then, because there are too many problems with the restoration of damage - and I insist - in greenhouses, we will use the rural development programme, so that we can cover and absorb at the same time investment activities. Because the restoration of these damages - since most of them were new glasshouses - is actually an investment. So we have the relevant resources and you can be sure that we will bring things back to the pretext. With regard to your question, as to why the regulation does not change and why we do not do so quickly, I shall tell you what is going on in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Mr Moraite, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u17	Minister, if the people of the region have followed the debate, they must be even more concerned. Not only did you not give specific answers there, but you didn't even give them here today. Questions are specific. Does ELGA cover these losses in income? It doesn't cover them. That's the answer. Now, of course you gave those in front of cameras and cameras. When these closes - and they're closed - the residents will be forgotten. And we have such examples and I will tell you one particular thing. Were the producers compensated in the Artas prefecture for a year and a half? They have not been compensated, Minister. Then again, you made promises. Now, as far as the PPAs are concerned, when farmers hear it, they say'my life', because the PPAs beyond a time-consuming process are also a process that must take the European Union's approval to compensate farmers. Therefore, if they take money once, these will be crumbs and will not respond to any of the damages suffered by the inhabitants of the region. Of course, you said something else, which you did not mention here today, unless you keep it for your dentistry. You sold seaweed for silk ribbons. You told them that they would be compensated by the European Union Solidarity Fund. But now listen to what this notorious European Union fund is. Three days ago, following a question by the MEP of the Communist Party of Greece, Sotiris Zarianopoulos, who was involved in the fires in Chios, there was an answer from the Commissioner responsible. Listen, Minister, and above all listen to the local people and, in general, to what the country says. In order to obtain compensation from this notorious fund, total losses must exceed 1.5% of the region's gross product, in this case in the region of Western Greece. We are talking about a number of tens of millions, just as is the case with the fires in Chios, where damage must be close to 40 million in order to compensate masturbators and other farmers there. But there's something else that's more important. It says that aid to this fund should only be granted when there are damages which have been declared. You might do that. It says, however, that the political measures and compensation for the affected individuals are not eligible. This is the European Union, Minister, of the monopolies which compensate the large business groups, but it does not give the euro to poor medium-sized farmers and other peoples. We say clearly that the inhabitants of the region will not be compensated and must take the case in their hands. They had you well welcomed from what I know. Of course you did some skepticism and went through where the farmers' roadblocks were waiting for you to make promises. Then you received them at the meetings that took place. We say clearly that we must make a case of the rural club movement itself, the case of the inhabitants of the region with the players, because otherwise they will not be compensated. Because the policy you are following under the European Union's requirements is what we have mentioned. In other words, damages and projects - which are more important - are ineligible. Because they don't draw a profit from the large construction groups. That is why there are no flooding projects, not all of these projects that will protect the inhabitants. We tell the residents that they have to take the case into their hands and ask for compensation that corresponds to 100% of the losses they have suffered. Minister, you are well aware of this, especially for the poor, medium-sized farms, these damages are a matter of survival. We are still asking to postpone for the year when they lost their crops, all the fees you charge them through the HNVIA, through the carpets of ELGA, through municipal fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr Moraite. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, once again I will tell you that in this Chamber the vast majority of the representation of the Greek people decided that our country is going to be European, which means, in particular, for the rural area, that there is a common agricultural policy, which ensures at least 3.5 billion per year for the rural area. This, as you can see, cannot be done without any relevant regulations from their own side. I would therefore inform you that 50% of the regulations governing the functioning of the European Union concern rural areas, for the simple reason that it is the only area that has a Community budget. From there on, these are some things we cannot question. We cannot at the same time claim more aid - and you have rightly, like all the farmers - forged indifferently when it comes to implementing the regulations. That was the case against the previous governments, and that is why we had the known fines, the revocations, etc. It's not the time. ELGA is a reward fund. That's what the law says. That's what his rules say. It shall ensure the payment of certain insurance risks. These insurance risks are estimated to be paid as soon as possible. From there on, for the rest of the damages, the known dossier is drawn up, which passes through their approval for the simple reason that they want not to have the meaning of State aid. Because it is not of interest to us too to get the logic of State aid into the rural area, because that will mean a reduction in Community aid. It is a very serious issue and it needs a great deal of attention. So there was a delay there in the PSEA. But the relevant regulation has been changed and it is easy and I would tell you that they will not have much distance with the payment of the ELGA. From there on, you can understand, because we have too many damages, rather than looking for resources that are different, such as the rural development programme, to cover expenditure on compensation for damages, when the amount of MAGPs that we can ensure does not exceed 15, 16 million, and the damage is much more, what better to achieve through the rural development programme also to restore the damage? For what you said about the Solidarity Fund, I did not say: 'They will get from the Solidarity Fund'. I said that because we have damages all over Greece we are going to make a file, we will gather together to see how the damage is going and since these damages are going through a threshold - the one that answers the question - then we will see if we can look through the Solidarity Fund. We have no idea that damage can be so great. In this case, for what you are talking about, because I did, I saw them all, it is not the damage so that we could make a request, and that is why there is the corresponding response from the Solidarity Fund. I repeat: the ELGA has specific damages, the MAGPs have specific damages. We are trying to widen the possibility of finding resources to cover all the losses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much. We move on to No 7503/4-8-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the proposals of the geotechnical workers in ELGA Crete. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, we are also discussing with the previous question, with the question that I have tabled, the problem that has arisen on the one hand with the policy which the Ministry seems to be following and with the direction which ELGA has taken in relation to the compensation and, of course, the enormous problem that has arisen with the inability to assess on the other, because of the movement problem that the government has not solved until now. I refer first of all to the first point. Farmers - and not only, we all have the impression that the Ministry is directing many of the damage to the PEAs, especially when there is partial or total ambiguity as to whether or not the Regulation provides for specific damages. So it moves the issue of compensation to the ultimate future and with the stumbling block many times that it does not cover 30% there are no compensation for farmers. This is a big issue, and the government should see it more carefully, because some of the risks already expressed by the Minister himself, in reply to his fellow Member. We have to make clarifications in relation to the Rules of Procedure. For example, the damage to the fruit in Crete cannot be said to be before the landfill only so that it does not go to the normal compensation procedure of the ELGA or damages made to the winegrowing sector. These are things that we will find in front of us in the next few months and have to do with not only farmers' incomes and farmers themselves, but also production as a whole. There will be no room for cultivation in the next period. Therefore, the government must stop shifting the issues that are ELGA compensation and shifting them to the PSEAs, whether because of high temperatures, windstorm, or windstorm or hail. In any case, yesterday, an amendment was adopted, which we too voted for, on deer compensation. So when you amend the regulation to incorporate the allowances from deer, you should see the compensation from wild boars - to refer to Northern Greece where we have such phenomena - and you should also see the ambiguities you are saying behind them and say 'a, this damage does not go into the olive cultivation of Crete - and not just - because the regulation does not clarify it well'. Of course, apart from that - and I will close - there is also the issue of movements. You have for no reason caused a major disturbance in the ELGA, which is also working today thanks to workers' honesty. The workers, the valuers of the ELGA, are involved in the assessment work because they want it, at the expense of their finances, only to prevent ELGA from being exposed, who has also been exposed by the insistence of political leadership and by the failure to resolve the issue so far. We have tabled an amendment five times - and we have it today in the forestry cooperatives bill - and I would ask the Minister to come to the bill on substance to make it acceptable and to resolve the matter. In essence, the administration of the ELGA in this amendment - it is actually its own proposal. It must be resolved once and for all. You do not need to insist on a misconception which has brought so many problems to the ELGA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Please, Mr Apostle, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Comrade, you've put a lot of money in it. Let us see, however, the first one, which deals mainly with assessments. First of all, I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to answer your question to the workers of ELGA Crete, since you fully adopt the text of their communication. We understand and try to solve the problem. Both the President of ELGA and I have met multiple times with their club bureau. We promised them we'd do what we can. First, with our ministerial decision in July 2016, we doubled the days of the appreciators being able to move for the geoponents, who were a hundred and fifty for the veterinarians, who were a hundred eighty. What the communication says - and you too - is not about valuers for sixty days. It concerns administration and internal control. If you want two days for both the administration and those, it's your business. We do not agree with this position. Following the adoption of the decision on increasing travel, we said, we promised that in due course we would also be dealing with the problem of kilometric compensation. However, immediately then, estimates of all branches throughout the State began. As far as our promise is concerned, I want to make one thing clear. At some point, ladies and gentlemen, at least you must take your participation. We voted for Law No.4336 together, and it was the third memorandum you were saying. In this law, therefore, it was established that the compensation of EUR 0,25 per kilometre goes to EUR 0,15. They were removed 10 minutes for all officials in the wider public sector moving. We have seen and debated this from the very first moment, that the precursor situation for the assessors must be restored, because they are their movements very difficult - because they are moving to rural areas - but at the same time there is a great need. We are already in agreement with the Ministry of Finance. This Ministerial Decision will be adopted. Now, as far as the issues you have raised are concerned, I will respond to only one, because I am not allowed to do so by time. With regard to what you say that we are directing damage from ELGA to PSEA, please listen, Mr President, for damages on the part of the administration that are covered by the ELGA regulation - and in particular those relating to aggression in your area or in other areas - we have set up a scientific committee, which has given us an opinion and says that this is covered - the other is not covered. Again in the examination process, we are trying, because it is a little blurred, to cover the regulation as widely interpreted as possible. Do not say that because I would remind you that the damage that ELGA paid this year was more than any other year, and even by violating the plaque you have put in relation to the receipts you and we are obliged to follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on the question of the movement of valuers, I have to say that until July when the OSH was issued, it was all sixty. And they've been asking for this to come up from the start. Of course, the first time there was no problem because the sixty movements had not been covered. As soon as they were covered, however, it had to increase. And that was one of the requests. The second is that the first time, while they were pointing to the workers, the assessors were going to solve the problem and with this assurance they were going with their own cars and their own means of assessment, and then the question was not resolved, and so far the workers have been unpaid and the government has to make arrangements to pay the workers valuers for the first time, for which they have not been paid. I now come to the question of the regime. Check out the second Memorandum also provided for limiting travel costs, from the first, only there are some provisions that say "except in exceptional cases", such as the estimates of ELGA. That is why we have tabled this amendment, which you must accept today. Come here today - and I call on the other parties and the Coupling and Reconciliation - to support this amendment, which we have tabled for the fifth time, so that it can be resolved once. What does "memorandum" say? Does the Memorandum of Understanding prohibit this amendment? Have you read it? Tell me exactly where he opposes. Where exactly? How was the question of examiners for driving licences resolved by another Ministry? How? Since it was up to 31-12-2016 and it was normal to move. You say No.4336 was voted last summer. The problem arises from another law, the law of Mr. Vernardakis, to whom you did not intervene, for there to be an exception for ELGA. So what you need to see is that the ELGA today works only thanks to the participation of - and of this and without having an obligation - of workers, thanks to their own will, of their own economics, to make assessments. You need to recognize that. But that cannot go on. You're talking about car rentals. Are you going to run contests to rent cars? The other day at a branch, they rented cars. During the seven-and-a-half hours - they had to be rented, because it had to be done in the previous procedure - there was a heavy rainfall and the valuers could not go anywhere. The cars were parked in the square. We were paying for the rental of cars. The system you're doing is more costly. And the Memorandum, if you will, which you have signed and which you say has come and voted on in the House, says to reduce the waste. It's not about an increase that you guys made. This system is an increase in waste. The administration of the ELGA has told you. The administration of the ELGA agrees with this amendment, in its spirit. At the meeting we held in the Region of Crete, Mr. Kurebes said that there was a need for new legislation to resolve the matter. You must do it! Finally, to say that where there is an unspecified issue for other cases, you solve them. You can't solve this for olive cultivation. Excuse me. What did you say about deer damage? Was it in the regulation? But he did. With amendment to the regulation, it was incorporated. I said before about the damage caused by wild boar, Mr Colleague, which is mainly in Northern Greece, but not just in the mountain regions. Aren't these damages? We're gonna have a scientific committee to tell us if the damage to the wrist - he says - happened before? But this is a search for documentation to avoid compensation. And because there is huge damage to olive cultivation in Crete, see it because this is not solved by secret meetings. It's solved with initiatives you can take. I am sure that you will rethink it and rethink your attitude to the one you have so far, which is truly disastrous in the agricultural productive sector. You cannot cover behind the findings of any scientific committees that have a direction to say 'in any case, let's go to the MAGPs' and then say 'it doesn't cover 30%' and then say 'the lentil'. Minister, mercy. No more continuation of this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, we do not apply the regulations, particularly the agencies, as we have been doing, and like micro-groups and micro-politicals, we have been serving us, which, you know, has, for years, been in that country. We have accepted an amendment concerning the damage caused by deer. We did so because we also had in mind that the great problem that exists in the countryside, especially with feral pigs, must be tackled. Expansion of hunting days doesn't solve the problem. So let us see - with a proportionate study, because the implementation of any proposal now needs a proportionate study, the case of deer is a well-founded case - what will come of it. Because many times we may say that it is necessary to cover this damage, and when the study comes, it draws out something that you realize is too difficult to cover in a rural area that has problems. It is a matter of great concern to us. The second one to which you referred is the 'cost-bearing system'. This system we inherited. And within the framework of the restructuring of the rural area, we will, of course, review the ELGA regulation, of course, and we will see through proportionate studies. But you know that these are time-consuming procedures. You cannot deny that in a difficult interpretation of the regulation we have resorted to a scientific committee and said that we will try to implement its opinion as flexible as possible, because there is a need in the rural world. This shows seriousness from our side, rather than urgency, with which the ELGA's money has been managed for years. I'm closing with the chunk of the kilometre compensation. So I repeat that this is a matter that we are trying and haunting, but the responsibility lies with the Ministry of Finance. For our part, we have carried it forward and of course the Ministry of Finance is now thinking about dealing with this subject by a ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u28	The cost-benefit is for the rentals. That's how you waste the money!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u29	The MPs, Mr Charalambos Athanasios and Mr Theodores Fortsakis, seek permission from a few days' absence abroad, one for France and the other for Smyrna. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u30	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We continue with the second with No 1278/19-9-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Athens Parliament, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the deterioration of Classical Education in Greece. Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. I feel - I have to admit - a little strange, Minister. It is well known that I appreciate you very much as a professor. I was lucky to have you as a professor, and I have to tell you you were excellent. I have ads from my show that are very important and it's a little hard to have with you this conversation. I called Mr. Friend here. Of course, you can come here under the Rules of Procedure - no objections. And I wanted to have Mr Philadelphia especially this week, Mr President, to give him the opportunity to reconstruct what he said about the Church. Mr. Friend went on a show at "KONTRA CHANNEL" and said: "To tell us what the Church did in the period of the Occupation and the junta". I imagine, Minister, Professor, you know Archbishop Damascus, you know Metropolitan Zakynthos Chrysostom. You know the struggles they did to rescue Greek Jews at that time from the nails of Nazism and how they have been honored by the state of Israel as the righteous of the nations. It is a disgrace to Mr Philadelphia, Mr President! I am ashamed that the Greek Minister for Education and Religious Affairs is on a show and throwing mud from the complex that has deep inside it for the Church! And he talked about the junta, and it is known that when the junta fell, the Church changed almost the entire Holy Synod for all those people who had been appointed over the junta. Did the universities do the same, Mr. Peglerin? The ones appointed on the junta left the universities? Do you want me to tell you a name in your government benches - that was appointed in 1972, the year I was born? It's Mrs. Fotio. In 1972 he was appointed to the university. So what are we gonna say now? That because Mrs. Fotou was appointed to university in 1972, was she with the junta? Is that what Mr. Friend says? I very much wanted him to come here today to be given the opportunity to reconstruct what he did at the "KONTRA CHANNEL" TV station against the Greek Church. It is a shame - I tell you sincerely, Minister - that the Greek Minister for Education and Religion, which is there to maintain the good relations with the Church, does not miss an opportunity to throw away the inferiority complex against the Greek Church at every opportunity. He's provocative, Mr. Friend, and he should be here to revise and correct the mistake he made. I'm over it. If you want, you can answer for him. I'm just coming to my question and I'll tell you why I feel weird. Now should I come to explain to you that it is a great thing for our children to learn the Greek language? Because, as you know, there is no ancient and new Greek language. One is our language in its various chronological evolution. If you open the Homer - I'm not telling you, to God, rhetoric is - the sky is heaven, the sea is sea, man is a man, God is a God. Same language! And what is it now, Mr President? While the Greek state in the 1980s made a choice and took out the ancient Greek in essence from the schools, it came after almost twenty years and said that we were wrong, the linguistic level of the Greeks fell from the removal of ancient Greeks from the schools and restored the teaching of the Ancient Greeks and the High School. The Greek state did so with the agreement of both major parties at the time. And now Mr. Friend comes and takes us back. She's doing the same again. And don't smile. You know very well - and this is what you should answer, close and be given the floor - that when and when you reduce the hours of teaching, but you also abolish the written examination in this course, it is, in fact, like telling the student at school "do not give a great deal of importance to this lesson", "this lesson will not play a part in your evolution". And be careful, Professor, what in my opinion is embarrassing. President Holland in France has attempted to do about the same thing in French schools and has volunteered the learning of classical languages, as you know, since this year. And 90% of the children in France voluntarily signed to teach ancient Greek and Latin. And President Olad's decision has caused a huge public debate in France over a number of weeks, where your teachers were coming out and explaining to the French why it is important to learn classical languages. And in Greece, Mr. Philis, who tries to abolish the ancient Greek from the schools and passes "the change", as if it were not a very important matter. So I want you to tell me - and I will say in my dentext of the letter from the International Association of Classical Philologists, which expresses the same concerns as us - what you really have to say about all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. I have to tell you, Mr Georgiadis, that I have also asked a timely question to the Minister of Education on the question of religious matters, in the sense that the Archbishop publicly states that religious education is being cancelled in a way that Mr Philes answers that his positions are being misunderstood. I have asked a timely question to come to the House so that it can explain exactly what is happening before the House. So I think that this matter is out of your question, so Mr Peglerin will answer the question. Mr. Peglin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Nietzsche, referring to his mission as a teacher, always looked to a student who would question him. In this sense, Mr Georgiadis, I really feel glad to have you to put me at the forefront of your criticism and control as representing the Ministry of Education on a subject as sensitive as the teaching of ancient Greeks. But, before I came to my point, I would like to tell you that last night I was informed to come and answer you. Mr. Friends isn't hiding. Among the other positive ones he has, he always has the courage of his opinion and he answers. And he'll answer all the things you've put in. It also has vision and practicality to deal with issues. I'm telling you, who I've worked with about a year with him, and please believe me in that. I now come to our point. I would like to assure you, personally, and the President of the International Federation of Classical Studies, Professor Franco Mantani, but also the Greek citizens, that in no way does the Ministry of Education question the value of the classic letters. On the contrary, his aim is to promote the teaching of the ancient Greek secretariat on the basis of scientific and pedagogical criteria, because he considers it extremely important to teach the ancient Greek secretariat about the development of human intellectuality, the cultivation of his personality and the formation of social and political ethos. Let me say something here that shows exactly what the Ministry of Education's interest in classic letters is. In any event, even before reaching the way of teaching the ancient texts, to which I shall refer, it decided on 18 November 2016, which was declared by UNESCO as the "year Aristotle", to hold a round table in Paris - it is the day of the celebration of philosophy - on the teaching of Aristotle in high school. Among the prominent philosophers who will be involved, Greek and wider Europeans, Professor Franco Mantari is also involved. I now come to our point. Indeed, the teaching of the lesson of the ancient Greeks by the original was limited from three hours in each class of high school to two, while maintaining the teaching of the ancient Greeks by translation, which you do not underestimate. In particular, I must say that the manuals have been structured in such a way as to include expressions which, as you quite rightly said, go back to the ancient Greek secretariat, such as heaven, sea and other expressions, to show the continuity of the Greek language, which we all have to understand. The Greek language is one, and we want to push the students to ensure a better performance in the use of the Greek language. It should also be noted that the one hour reduction in the first grade of the teaching of the Ancient Greeks from the original, this hour did not go to another cognitive object in mathematics, for example, but went to the New Greeks. I would also like to tell you something else, which may, if you allow me, you ignore, that this measure before the Ministry decides today, experimental schools in the country have adopted it for six to seven years, with excellent results. I would refer you to the results of the introductory examinations this year of the graduates of the Experimental School of Thessaloniki, Delmuzou, who made the language the first priority, in the successes they had this year. I would also like to tell you that we should not forget that for decades the lesson in teaching the Ancient Greeks from the original was two hours. Indeed, Giannakou Minister has become three-hour. What kind of evaluation? What study? On what criteria? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like to use time from my dentistry. May I or may I stop? Can I finish this and go on then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u34	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. In 1992 and 1993, it was decided to reintroduce, experimentally, the lesson of the teaching of Ancient Greek from the original in schools with the prospect of evaluating pupils who graduated from high school to whom this measure was applied. That's never been the case. The only study, which I at least have in mind, is the work of Maria Koxarakis, which concludes, Mr. Vice President of the New Democracy, hereinafter: "The teaching of the Greek language from ancient, Byzantine and texts for three consecutive years in high school did not improve the performance of the students in Ancient Greek in high school". It certainly did not improve them, not because they were the texts themselves, but because the way of teaching was not the cadet. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing on several occasions.]] I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u36	You have a second language, Minister. Also, Mr Georgiadis, I would like to ask you and all the other colleagues, because there is legislative work immediately afterwards and the Minister in charge here is waiting for you to respect the times. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u37	I confess, Minister, that your presence disarms me. I hope you represent Greece at the "Year of Aristotle" there in Paris on November 18 and we have someone who knows from Aristotle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u38	You can, if you want, come and watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u39	I'd love to. Now listen, Minister, Professor - I do not know how to address you - because we need a little to reach agreement. First of all, to tell me whether or not I underestimate the translation is not correct. I would like to tell you that I publish translations of ancient writers. I live from this job, so I obviously don't underestimate them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u40	The 'estimate' was with 'yes', not 'e'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u41	Good. But listen to something. Tell me what the study is that convinces you as Minister that the removal of the teaching of the "Epikleus" of Pericles from High School is an act that will benefit students. Professor, this is Pericles' Epitaph, the largest text of democracy on the planet. "We cherish the gar state of their envy of the pelagic laws." And that our students will never hear, because you removed it. And now that's what you're telling me it's a matter of study? Let's go to the second argument now. You said - you passed it a little - that the time cut off went to New Greek. Oh, no. They were cut three hours and one hour went to New Greek. The two hours were completely lost, they came out of the program. The only one was replaced toward the New Greek in high school. They were cut three hours and one was replaced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u42	You're generally talking about high school. I said high school number one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u43	I'm talking high school. I repeat that one of the three hours cut one was replaced. And you did not answer my basic argument: when you abolish the written examination in this course, what do you actually say to the student? Don't pay attention to this lesson. Don't be fooled, Minister. We've been students too. You understand that. Can you imagine me coming to your amphitheatre and saying, "You're not going to give examinations to my lesson?" No one would hit, and bad. So what's the point? And I want to talk a little bit about the substance, Professor. Especially you can't pass over the substance. They went to the '80s and abolished the Ancient Greeks and remember where we arrived after a few years? Do you remember at that time when he entered the Report as a topic of'relief' and 'fairness'? Do you remember that it took two hours of clarification of the Ministry of Education, so our students could understand what the words'relief' and 'fairness' meant? They didn't understand the words. And then he had taken out a nice cartoon by KYR with a handbag that said: "The premeditated nomenoclatura of the proletariat of the instroubles of the party dared to put two unknown words in the report of our children, the "relief" and the "feeling". Do you know where we've become, Minister? A few years ago the "News" wrote that a British tourist went to a kiosk in Omonia and said the British to the perimeter: "I'm in a hurry for the Acropolis. And he answers the bizarre horror "I don't speak English"! That's where we got Greece. Is that where you want to take her back? Don't you want to go forward, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u44	That's where you reached Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u45	Don't challenge me, Mr. Comrade. I speak with the Minister in this process. It was the '80s. Let's get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u46	Please, Mr. Colleague, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u47	Don't you want, Minister, to learn our children letters? Before you make these changes, shouldn't you have caused a big public debate, told us what you want to do, listen to the Greek Philologists' Union? Because it's not just Mr. Montanari. I address Mr Montanari's letter on the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's not just the International Association of Classical Studies, Minister. And the Association of Greek Philologists accuses you of the exact same things and they tell you "watch out, our children will not learn letters". This is not a question of political conflict between us. It's a much bigger matter. Such decisions must be very well balanced. And the Minister took these decisions away. In conclusion, I would like to say that I never said that Mr. Friends did not have the courage to give his opinion. I never said that. I think Mr. Philis always has the courage to give his opinion, which is why I expected him to be here today to answer the questions of the Church, which are major. The Minister of Education has done a great deal of work against the Church, leaving it implied - I repeat - for the role of the Church of Greece in the Occupation and in the junta, when it is known that the Church of Greece also played a leading role in the struggles for Resistance and in the struggles for democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u48	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u49	The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs should not have done that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Peglerin, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Vice President of the New Democracy, the subject of your question was not the Church. Because I am sure that if Mr. Friends...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u52	On this subject, Mr Peglerin. Don't open a conversation now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u53	Let me give you a reply. It's a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u54	Yeah, but he's out of question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u55	Within time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u56	Out of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u57	Don't confuse things, please. Of course, as I said before, I believe that language is united from antiquity to today. Attention, however, - because you mentioned the complex - do not stay in the past, because we can be led to the opposite result from what you are seeking. I'll tell you something else I've lived for. When I was in England, my professor told me that he had come during the dictatorship in Greece. He spoke to me ancient Greek and said: "I was terrified because where I stood I saw "stage", "stage", "stage", at the bus stops. He had the impression of being revolutionary. Therefore, we must not stick to the past, but look at how to move forward. Mr. Vice President of the New Democracy, the teaching of the Ancient Greeks from the original was abolished by your resignation, the New Democracy, by reforming the relentless Georgios Rally. You must not forget that. We restored the Ancient Greeks. And this shortcut in time you have proposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u58	Mrs. Giannakou brought her back. Mrs. Giannakou is on our sideline.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u59	Yes, he did, but he did bring her back the wrong way. He brought in three hours of teaching. You think the number of hours will restore the effectiveness of the teaching of Ancient Greek. It's not like that. Qualitative criteria must exist. I would like to tell you that on the subject of Pericles' "Epitafile" I do not have that in mind. But the effort that is being made is precisely to get those texts that will help the student to love the language, draw it from it and have a greater performance. That's our target. What's the point of the kid learning the double number? If it's interesting, she'll find out later. What he wants to know is texts that will help him understand the value of the language. I would like to conclude by saying that we are looking forward to a school that will enable the student to be released, a school in which excellence can emerge smoothly, without causing problems for the student himself. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I repeat - and I conclude with this - that the teaching of the Ancient Greek language is within the priorities of the Ministry of Education. I conclude by saying that I was really happy with the debate, because during your studies you were as noisy and challenging.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much. We move to the fourth with No 1280/19-9-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Republican Association of the PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the need for parallel support for the special education of children with autism. Mr. Kegeroglu, please keep the time, because it follows legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, before entering the question I must remind you of your commitment to Rethymnon, which was partly implemented for the five new schools that had to be staffed and equipped since September in order to operate. We had the basic equipment of tables and seats, but they still haven't arrived, you know, the computer infrastructure, the tables, the markers, the libraries, the laboratory equipment, the teachers' seats. At least you've assured the students on this. Please check it out. I relieve you of responsibility because at least you have implemented it in part. But see what's going on with them below you. Since you have referred to Mr Philly's views, I believe that everyone is entitled to his views. And you had your own views on the day we talked about democracy and the day of national memory about the genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor, where some arbitrary and coup d'état changed the terminology. It can be seen that everyone can defend them, put them in the public debate. But if he wants to make them official views of the state, state and parliament, he must pass them through the suffering and dialogue and vote. So, without a vote being changed by Law 2645, which lays down 14 September as the day for a national memory of the genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor from the Turkish state, you came here and changed the agenda and the Bureau and the Minister who asked for it. I don't know if you asked. It's said that Mr. Friend has asked for it. On the question, Mr Minister, you spoke earlier about quality in reply to Mr Georgiadis. Looks like your quantity's of interest to you. You have made changes in primary and special education in such a way that less staff are required. That was your criterion. You lowered teaching hours, and specifically reduced three hours of teaching weekly. Quantitative is the criterion. Also, you abolished a thousand five hundred schools operating in the special program, that is, instead of 14: 00' they school at 13: 15. This means that for every twelfth class you get two teachers. That's your criterion. You do the same in special education, where there is a huge problem. The child’s mother’s letter from Ierapetra, which is the basis for our question, unfortunately reflects reality. You need to take a warmer look at the subject of parallel support. What Mr Friend says is not the case, in response to his colleague, SYRIZA, that legislation is needed. The parallel support has been institutionalised by the Diamantopoulou Act and there is only the obligation of the state to move through the CEDD the process of illustrating the needs and then the recruitment of teachers to support children. I will tell you that only for Crete the needs are over three hundred and four hundred children with the parallel support. So far there has been no procedure. In Heraklion, it's only a hundred ninety. You must go to recruitment for parallel support in order to address the problems we have. It is not something that is a luxury, but our obligation as a state to provide it to these families. Mother's letter is a cry of agony to all people, all families who have such children and want the support of the Ministry. I am sure you will give a positive way out of the issue that has arisen and exists for all families who have children with autism and not just. There are all the other problems and the difficulties involved in the same design. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u62	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much for acknowledging that at least some of the school equipment there in Heraklion is satisfied. And if there's this delay, it's due to bureaucracy. Now I come to the point of your question. I read the letter from the mother from Ierapetra, I share her anxiety, and I fully agree with the description of the situation in the field of special education. It is unacceptable and we have to agree on that. But we must also agree on something else that the present government and the Ministry of Education are certainly not responsible for this situation. It has been responsible for the uncertainty, the indifference of the previous governments for decades. I think the question we should concentrate on is given this situation to consider what the Ministry has done or what it intends to do. I have to tell you first of all that while every year the recruitment of staff to special education schools and its teachers in parallel support took place between mid-October and the end of October this year, it will take place from 23 to 30 September. Will you tell me, three or four weeks make a difference? Yes, especially when it comes to the beginning of the school year. Let me inform you that on Friday, tomorrow, there are already a thousand five hundred recruits in special treatment throughout the country. A total of nine thousand alternates will be recruited this year, Mr.Police, and last year the recruitments to special education were 45% more than the recruitments that took place in the school year 2014-2015. I would like to make it clear that the Ministry of Education has an obligation to allocate appropriations to regional administrations. However, the responsibility of recruitment in specialty training staff and special assistant staff to meet the needs of the structures of special education has been shared by the Regional Board of Special Educational Staff in its area of responsibility. Also, let me tell you what else the Department has done for special lawsuits. For the 2016-2017 school year we set up five hundred and thirty-eight new departments of integration in primary and secondary schools and twenty-three new special education and education establishments. So from the school year 2016-2017 will also work - I stress the word "extra" - sixty-one in kindergartens, three hundred and fifty-one in primary schools, one hundred and twenty-six in secondary schools, three special kindergartens, nine special primary schools, five special vocational education and training workshops, nine special training courses. Twelve lyric classes are still being established in existing special professional schools. Can you tell me that these measures solve the problem of special treatment? No, of course not, but you should start somewhere. As the Chinese say, to run miles, you have to take the first step. Here we have taken a number of steps towards overcoming this unacceptable situation in special education schools. I have to conclude by saying that the Ministry's view of school is that school is a micrograph of society. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u64	But I would ask you to conclude, because then there is legislative work. I'll give you a minute, but let's get this over with, Mr. Pegliny. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u65	Okay, just a minute and I'll be done. School is a micrograph of society. So as in society there are different people, with different pursuits, with different abilities, with different needs, the same happens in school. What should prevail is respect for human rights, respect for diversity, respect for equality and justice. In this way we intend to go, not try to solve the subject of special treatment at one time. Because that is the risk: trying to resolve a matter so serious automatically. Our effort is a step forward - to try to deal with the issue. And there we invite you to participate, because I think we agree that the situation in special education is unacceptable, and it is a situation that has been consolidated for decades. We must once begin to overcome this unacceptable situation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry. Please keep the time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, please note that what is pending is for Rethymnon, do not send them to Heraklion you said - if you are interested in having results.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u68	The next time you come, you will recognize that the problem has been solved. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u69	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, year after year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u70	It's eating my time, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u71	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u72	But it's causing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u73	On the other hand, the subject of special treatment, I thought he kept talking to Mr Georgiadis and not to the spokesman for the PASOK-DIMAR Democratic Association. Minister, you have to correct. They're not the first ones to blame. PASOK people with disabilities were in unclaimed, underground, in closed rooms. There was no care on the part of the state. I do not accept this dedication to which you have unwittingly provided, perhaps. Since 1982, a huge amount of work has been done for disabled people. Special education and training for children with learning difficulties is a PASOK project. So, with regard to the general adequacy of the situation that existed thirty years ago and there is for all forty years and all that you are saying, you must be more careful in the Ministry of Education and especially in these matters. We must say that things are evolving, needs are growing, science is moving forward, and so the educational system and special education and education are constantly being adapted. That is the basis on which we must move and agree, because if we were to talk forty years ago, before PASOK, in other words, for special treatment and disabled people, we would unfortunately find that things were very tragic. We therefore come to see the problems on the basis of which you put them. There were megalosoms. He said, "Mr. Baltas made salad last year, and that's why Mr. Tsipras put me to make it." This is what he says in a few words, when he goes out and goes back alone to the monologues he does at the "KONTRA CHANNEL". He doesn't say anything else. He's retired compared to Mr. Balta. If that's possible! Yes, there were problems last year and older. There will always be problems. But it's reduced hours, reduced courses. Let the schools close, do not need any teachers and substitutes! That's disgraceful to come out and support it from the channels alone. Why isn't he having a dialogue? He's hiding. He says it alone with journalists, who certainly ask him a few questions, but if he does not answer them, they will not insist much, because there is time for television. So, let me say, for the special treatment: in PYSPPE of Heraklion: we only have an IP 71, there are twenty blanks. For parallel support we have a hundred seventy-six teachers, fifteen kindergarteners. In total, these are four hundred fifty. Overall for the country for parallel support can be two thousand teachers. So, take the lead in the direction that you said immediately how we manage these special schools, how we give parallel support to the children who need it, without having barren controversy that leads nowhere. And we, as I started and spoke on the subject of Rethymnon schools, will come and say 'yes, it is right'. No, however,'skelesters'. The "skelesters", "close the departments and comment on the girls earlier, so I do not need teachers", cannot be accepted by us. You said 'we are setting up departments'. I agree. You have founded integration departments and schools. The question is to see how they function. So there's more work to be done than the foundation. The establishment is a simple decision that comes and validates - I think - the regional proposals. But the function is more serious. It takes more work, and that is where I think you need to focus, to work out these sections and not to have problems more than we cannot deal with, because there will always be problems that we cannot deal with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u74	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u75	There will always be. It can't be solved. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u76	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Peglin, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I will start from the latter, telling you that the recruitment of the alternates will be completed from 23 to 30 September. Don't rush! I already told you there have been so many hires. And you mentioned Mr Balta - I would not like him to be ahead to say this - but what I said to you is that there has already been work and that work we are continuing. We're not doing anything else. And I'm honestly surprised when you say that PASOK had solved the problems of special treatment. Did you read Mother's letter from Ierapetra? You invoked her. Are you happy with this situation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u78	Before PASOK, there was no special treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u79	What have you done and there is this situation? I specifically tell you what we have done in the face of this desperate situation that we have received. And you're saying you solved the problems? You are making a review of parallel training. Of course, we would like more teachers. On paper it should be for every child who is in a normal order to have and the appropriate teacher to support it. It can't be done! But there are teachers in parallel education within the classes. You can't question that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u80	There will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u81	There are, no there will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u82	By PASOK law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u83	I would like to say that the issue of special education and, more generally, education is not a matter on which we need to go into sterile discussions. I would like to agree on what needs to be done from now on. It is important whether the measures taken so far by the Ministry are in the right direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. We move to the fourth with No 1273/15-9-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the situation in the Athens Concert Hall. The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Aristides Baltas. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as in any case we are making sure that we do as opposition, that we ask a Minister for a matter and come back, so on 12 May I asked you about the same matter very specific things and I am coming back today. It has been seven months since a law was passed - and we have voted for it and not your government partner - on your own initiative, for which we have welcomed you. A law was passed, in order to correct things in relation to the Athens Palace, to have a perspective and not to turn a moment of glory into a moment of decline, disappointment and a message show that things are not corrected. We voted for him, we supported you. In these seven months, however, practical action had to be taken on the part of the government. The first was related to economics. It was necessary to obtain a tax picture, that is to say, a settlement of all the Agency's issues in relation to all the existing taxes, so that it could function, get tax information, have a class and not be risky by the managers of this body. Seven months in relation to tax information nothing. With regard to the budget - I had stressed this - how will it become a budget when a number of economic sizes are in the air, no sponsorship, no race for sponsorships, such as the fight by Mr Manos and he found sponsors? Without a budget, without revenue and expenditure, how can an administrative unit proceed? The President you appointed himself has offended you in an interview with the newspaper "TA NEWS" on the 20th of the month, saying "I don't know anything about the state grant, I have no idea, I don't know anything about it". An artistic programme I had many times, Minister, heard Mr Mano expose it there, around October, there is no one. For an artistic program that shapes revenues and costs seven months, and for that? Anything about the budget? A three-year programme agreement is needed so that the organisation knows what the state grant will be. As he doesn't know about this year, he doesn't know about the next two years. The President of the House said so in his interview. Nothing about that seven months later? And for the workers you've finally done, all you've done is cut their earnings. It's your only "positive" energy. You have been giving them 80% of the salary since January - as opposed to - and now you have paid them nothing but a percentage against it. Do you promise that by the end of September you will have taken care of this? It is terrible for workers in an administrative unit - now public sector - not to have the assurance that they will receive their wages and not know who he is, seven months later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u86	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u87	Excuse me, Mr. President. I'm not gonna take the three minutes of my dentistry. Just one thought I'll do in my dentistry. Let me finish. A similar issue is the integration of the agency into the public sector, the general government. This has been done by law for all in 2013 and needs to be completed. Seven months, too. The Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry of Culture concerning a sum of 14 million was signed the other day after seven months of complete failure. And you're not telling me, is this tactic that follows the Varoufakis and the Greek state, in relation to the employees, to pay against it, is it the 'truthful' and 'glorious' and'superior' plan of Varoufakis to pay civil servants with the 'true' IOU? You give them something and the rest after. Is it the tactical Varoufakis that Mr Theaharakis also wants to follow in the body? And for now he's talking nicely. In my dentistry, I will also point out an event that concerns him. On his behalf, he has not shown the courtesy and I want you to have this in mind, Minister. Not with a gossip, but saying here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u88	Mr Balta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u89	Look, Mr. Loverdo, there are obviously delays everywhere. Let me tell you, in the least time I have, a few words about what we received as the Ministry of Culture at this time of supervision. For reasons relating to a large number of factors, one of which was the forms of funding for these bodies, these bodies suffered and suffered from many problems both at the administrative and financial level and at the level of management and labour relations. In relation to all these bodies, we are trying to put one order at all levels. Already in some bodies things have gone pretty fast, some others are still delaying. So we are in a process where at the economic level we have measured our costs and the minimum budget that the Ministry of Culture has, so that from now on we can know where we are and where we are going. There is a process called spending review, in which we have voluntarily joined pilots as Ministry of Culture, precisely to put order on all the strengths and weaknesses that existed in the past, the waste, the points where, instead of there being adequate funding, there were great funding in all the possible and impossible ways. That's the one point. Point two. Especially for the Mansion, you know I've tried, and in the previous placement three months ago and throughout the course since the matter came to Parliament, to keep the lowest possible tons, because sometimes scratching wounds of the past is not the best. But you have, I imagine, a sense of exactly what the House had been going through all these years before we got here. When we received the Megaron, his situation was at the edge of the tragedy from all possible and weak, because some people once thought that a pharanonic type of Megaron, which would overcome the needs of a capital, such as Athens, would extend around the world, could be financed and financed, made of additional large structures, developed and strengthened in all possible directions, without taking into account who and why all this is being paid for. So when we received the Mansion, beyond the two major loans we have arranged - because the previous governments had undertaken to settle them - there was also a set of other obligations that we have been trying to put into account since then. You have referred to specific actions. I had answered you three months ago that we are trying to achieve these specific actions. But we are not magicians, we are not controlling the whole economy, we are not at all able to say: 'Take up so much, give it there, it is over without any kind of debate' and so, in that sense, I am rightly criticised that I am delaying and accepting that there is a delay. From there on, if we are going to have a constructive debate, we have to see one in the face of this delay and try to deal with them, which we are doing. We have completed a programming contract and it goes on. We are in a debate, and I hope that by the end of October all these problems relating to the economic situation of Megaron will have been resolved. One more thing. You refer to the artistic activities of the Concert. As you can see, at this time and Zubin Meta came here with the orchestra of Israel and a set of producers have been made in the Mansion - I do not have them at this moment clipping in my mind, so I keep this paper - the educational programmes continued, the events in the palace of Megaron continued and the quality of the Megaron is maintained despite the problems you have identified. From that point on, I can assure you that I am not the only one in charge. They're also the co-legislative ministries. We are in a systematic debate so that all the problems that have been inherited from the previous history of Megaros can be dealt with in full.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I am addressing a minister of particular nobleness, and I am also taking the look, which is appropriate to man, but also to the subject. Minister, I told you in May. It was wrong to change the man who runs the space on the difficulty. It was a mistake to change Mr Mano. There was a man who didn't know the issues at a time when the Mansion had to stand up in command. Mr Manos was indeed a man who had done well with the difficulties you mentioned. He was struggling, with the risk of going to prison for IKA reasons, for reasons of tax information, etc., which the new commander has not avoided. I said in May that I supported him. However, it is not regular in a situation that is difficult, as you say, to have a person make it worse. I want to move on. And because we supported the law, we don't want to at some point - I told you before - by co-responsibility, in the positive sense of the term, in the sense of responsibility, to become accomplices to a disaster. And as a majority in the previous periods of the House, we supported the possibility of the building being. A comprehensive solution is needed. You gave it to me and we praised you. I mentioned eight issues one by one. You owe me an answer for an amendment on the subject of the tax image of the House. I have written it in the text of my question and I would like you to give it to me. Listen, however, by closing a phrase. I don't like personal attacks, which is why I'm gonna be pretty restrained. But tell the president of the organization - I do not care who is in his private life, nor his sons, or his riches - when he refers to members of the National Representation, to be much more polite, because the words 'walk'. And tell him, especially when he refers in a way of honorary, at least not to keep a cigar in his company, which he talks about and says. It's under public crisis and control. And if, Minister, it is, with every timely question we ask, that the danger of hearing about him do what he has to do, that I do every week from one. But we also have other obligations as Vice-Presidents. We have the Hellenic Defence Systems. Every colleague of ours has his issues, which must be monitored. It is not our job to command the public, nor is it a way of administering the public, that the opposition ask questions and because it asks questions, in view of the answers, to call the directors who did not convene them or see the workers who avoided them. Tell him to be careful, because it will be a matter of the next timely question himself rather than the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. Mr Balta, you still have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u93	I don't know where you get that information from, Mr. Loverdos. And that is not what is being discussed here under these conditions. From there on, you can be sure that as far as Mr Theaharakis and I are concerned, we will do everything we need and what we can so that all this suffering with the Megaron ends definitively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u94	You did not tell me about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. We move forward with the ninth number 1193/29-8-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the need for maintenance and promotion of the medieval city of Rhodes. Please, Mr. Consola, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, and you too for the immediate response to discuss the question we have tabled to the National Representation concerning the immediate need for maintenance work, but also to highlight the medieval city of Rhodes. Minister, I had the opportunity to discuss with you in March, on a relevant question, the rewarding benefits that the medieval city of Rhodes may have, but also Rhodes in general, in relation to its collection of archaeological resources for the monuments of the city, because its wealth is special. I will testify to that debate in the Minutes, because it is not only for you and us, but also for the future researcher who will need to see the evolution of these things. We had, then, spoken, then, Minister, and said that in the last two years, the amount of the collection of these benefits to the EBRD is around EUR 13.5 million, in a city, which is a monument of global cultural heritage. In fact, you are well aware of the race of Rhodes to highlight this city as a cultural capital for the next period. Minister, since then, nothing has been done in return for these Greek public debts towards our city. From there on, however, I must remind you that there is an ongoing strategic plan which the archaeology services do. And I have to pay tribute here, despite the subsidization that exists, to the fact that the services give an excess of their souls to enable them to implement this plan. However, neither the networks proceeded with a set of monuments, which exist in this strategic project, have been restored. The only way this can happen is by returning resources, Minister. At the table I must update the proposal that I have tabled to you, Minister. In other words, drawing up and signing a trial - a tripartite agreement, we could say - a programme contract between the Ministry, the region and the municipality. And I think the ground is fertile, but time can be signed. You were committed to visiting Rhodes. It would be extremely useful to do so now to discuss there with the other parties about this tripartite agreement. I think that the prospect of the programme agreement will also give a response to the pathogens, which I must admit are there not only in your days, but also in the previous period. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Consola. This debate is always constructive. I would like to mention to you, to be recorded in the Minutes, that the new ESDP programme mentions the renewal of the buildings of the Great Magistros Palace, the repair of the Catalan mansion, the mansion of Hassan Bey with the adjacent archaeological site and the time-consuming exhibition of the Recep Pasa mosque. All this is monuments of the medieval city. I would mention them in order to have a list that they will proceed with the new NSRF. They're finishing some precedents, which I don't mention here, but I guess you'll know. Obviously there are many problems in other monuments. The wall is problematic. There are life-threatening interventions that can temporarily deal with the problem, but the entire maintenance of the castle is a very big case. It is a case that, at least in part, can be done with what you said. In other words, we can build up - and I agree, now is the time - a programme contract by the Ministry, the district and the municipality. In this programming agreement we will see the terms of the archaeological, municipality and region. If we have a sense of the economic sizes needed and how each side can contribute, we can indeed take a new step towards improving the conditions in Rhodes which, as you said, has all these excellent features. The other question you raised I think I had answered last time. The concept of a return fee in terms of the archaeological sites' tickets is extremely difficult in relation to the specific area where these archaeological treasures are located, because they are unequally distributed, but also for historical reasons, of other order, visitability has some spaces against others that may be equally important. Therefore, the money that comes to the Ministry through the Archaeological Resources Fund should be distributed in return throughout the territory and not in each place separately. If the first thing were to happen, all the fees would go - let us say - to the Attica region because of the Acropolis and beyond that the other areas which would also need to be helped would not be helped. In this direction, because we understand the problem that in some areas where there is more to be visited, programming contracts of this type are involved, so that without the form of compensation directly from the archaeological site in the municipality where this archaeological site is located, on the basis of a broader understanding of the distribution of these resources, we can move forward. Very soon there will be a new regulation of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund, so that together with the additional resources, coming from tickets, such as this year, or from an electronic ticket that will increase these resources, there is a possibility of managing the Archaeological Resources Fund by giving it more investment capacities. Such efforts, together with European assistance, could be treated with larger projects such as the Castle of Rhodes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u99	Please, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I am pleased to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Minister for Culture expresses the view that it is necessary and useful - but rather also a one-way - for this convention, this tripartite agreement between the region, the municipality and the Ministry of Culture. I hope and believe you will soon come to Rhodes to sign this agreement. On the other hand, he will be tripartite, which means that it will be all three parts that would help in this effort, depending on the possibilities they have. The most important thing, Mr Minister, is that a framework will now be set in place for these very important initiatives taken by the archaeological service and you to rebuild monuments. So let me remind you that it is not just the medieval city, it is also a multitude of monuments within it. That's where a hierarchy is needed. I am also glad that you are announcing that the TAA is going on at another time, and we will see it in the course of time, because under the existing conditions it seems that it cannot, because, as in recent publications you will also see, it is not just the partial collapse of the walls, Minister, but I will testify in the Minutes to see that even deforestation of the grass on the walls cannot be done. That means something's going on here, something's going wrong. Let me remind you now of your second report on the properties of the medieval city of Rhodes, that there are two hundred nineteen properties, Minister. In 2014, a total of EUR 351,000 were collected, while in 2015 450,000 of the fifty properties, businesses and a hundred or sixty - three houses were collected. This is a small amount in relation to the real estate of the EDF. Here abandonment is taking on other features, not only natural abandonment. So, what is the strategic framework under way by the EDF to make use of these real estates? So I consider it extremely important that we are discussing this today and that you are actually announcing your intention to sign this tripartite agreement. On the other hand, to testify in the Minutes also that Mr Xydakis from Rhodes had tabled this view. I hope you will soon decide to come to Rhodes and to give an answer in the history of time that the city is abandoned and that a new dimension will be given, with the policy that you decide on. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u101	Mr Balta, you still have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u102	I have nothing to add. We'll move fast. To put a next one, if you like, dimension, in relation to Rhodes, to the development of the building infrastructure of the Ministry of Culture there, how they will be integrated into a maintenance and development repair process. We must also put this in our minds and in relation to the debate on the programming contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much. With Mr Baltas' speech, the debate on the topical and urgent subjects of major importance has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate on the principle, articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Forest cooperative organisations and other provisions'. I propose that the debate be made uniform in principle, on the articles and amendments. And depending on the number of speakers registered, there is an attempt to conclude the debate today, due to the change in the agenda for next week, as decided today by the Conference of Presidents. As far as I am concerned, there are no Ministerial amendments, from what you have said, but there are no amendments. There are only amendments tabled by Members. I would ask you, Minister, after your speakers, to announce what you will accept and what you will or will not accept, so that the Members who will be registered and the parliamentary representatives will know. Does this House agree on a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u105	So the House agrees. At the same time, before I give Mrs Inglezis the floor, Mr Iglezi, to put forward any legislative improvements so that they can be photographed and distributed to colleagues and started immediately. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative improvements we have before us - with the exception of one - were the ones that we had already agreed and had discussed during the meetings of the committees. In short, then, I mention that we have accepted the twenty-one people instead of the twenty-five. We also accepted being a first - grade relative instead of a wife. Furthermore, in paragraph 10 of Article 21 we accepted after the words ‘in the current legislation’ the addition ‘For this reason, the submission of an application shall necessarily be accompanied by a certificate of a generic criminal record, otherwise it is inadmissible and must be rejected by the responsible committee’. This is what we said about the administration that there are no individuals who do not have at least the criminal record. In addition, we have had the improvement when the members are reduced to two years so that the cooperatives can not be solved. We have reconstructed regional unity in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 36, so that we have this arrangement that all colleagues and colleagues have requested for regional unity, as well as for the creation of the EDPS. This is also done in Article 39(1). In Article 42(1) and in order to avoid this misunderstanding that they do not have any other resources from the NRP, we put "beyond the other resources...", as we had announced. And, of course, in Article 45 we have improved the phrase 'in accordance with Article 3(3)' and made it 'according to Article 3(2)'. That was an improvement. We had also announced that in Article 48(4) the words 'until 31 March of the year' should go 'until 28 February of the year'. Finally, I told you that we improved as a separate paragraph the maintenance of the computer file. These were all legislative improvements which we discussed with the institutions, but also with colleagues. So I don't think there's a problem here. Today we also have a legislative improvement, which also concerns this ministerial amendment from the Ministry of Justice, whose number I cannot see now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u107	That's all right, Minister. You testify to her, and if there's any questions, we'll see her later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u108	The only difference is that instead of saying "1.10.2016" about the competences of the bankruptcy code, it says "1.1.2016". I'll submit them immediately so they can be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u109	I would ask that they be photographed and distributed to all colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u110	Finally, while respecting the commitment I had made not to have a large number of amendments, I would like to inform the House that it is the only parliamentary amendment that we have already announced at the second meeting of the committees, and that it is also a matter of having the foresters potentially with one member at the meetings of the Committee on Forest Maps. This is an amendment that we had already announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u111	Mr Minister, please tell us the general and specific number of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u112	Give me some time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u113	It's okay, Minister, we'll find them on the way. Finally, Mrs. Inglezi, you will have found them, and you will tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u114	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u115	At this point, the electronic record for colleagues can be opened, which will be closed as soon as the rapporteur of the New Democracy Mr Metarakis comes down. Here, Mrs. Iglezi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I am very pleased that today we are debating the legislative proposal for the reform of the forestry cooperative framework. This is a draft law that forest ecosystems and forest ecosystems have been waiting for for a long time. This is a draft law, which goes on to regulation of vital importance for the proper, sustainable and productive management of the country's forests in the context of the principles of cooperation and multi-purpose forestry. Before I begin my introduction to the bill, you will allow me to say a few words about the work of the forester. Acknowledging from the discussions in the committees that few people are aware of this, I should like to highlight the elements which make the trade of the forest a specialist: Two are mainly these elements: The first is the intense relief of the Greek forests. On steep and inappropriate slopes, where most of us cannot even stand up, the forester must fleece and shape, cut huge trees, according to specific standards, defined by forest legislation. Another important element, which many also know about it, is that Greek forests are generally felled with dictates aimed at cultivating the forest. This means that the miner is not enough to bite the tree. It must be put down in such a way that it does not cause an accident to him and his fellow Members, but also ensure that it does not cause damage when it comes to falling into adjacent trees, as well as to the regeneration of the forest, that is to say, to the underlying smaller trees. It must then move it with loading and dragging animals from shaped paths to the nearest forest road. As you can see, this is a painful and dangerous job. In addition, specialisation is needed for forest management. For this reason, there is a need for the training of forest workers, mainly from older forest workers, but also for their knowledge of the principles of forestry. I'm continuing with the bill. From the meetings of the Standing Committee on Production and Trade and from the previous time when the bill was in consultation, it was evident that it was a bill that has been widely accepted. This is because it responds to the reality and gives solutions to chronic problems of forest co-operation. This is an extremely mature and repressed bill. Its processing started in 2005, it passed two consultations, opinions have been put forward from all over the range of the parties involved, and we are now moving forward with its adoption. However, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that this bill has passed through the hands of many of the ministers of the previous governments, but it has remained in their drawers. To date he had not found his way to the parliament to become a state law. The previous governments have constantly postponed the adoption of a new framework for forest cooperative organisations, not only because they had no particular sensitivity to the sustainable management of forests and support for the mountain economy, but also because their neoliberal vision has extended the full privatisation of the forest exploitation of public forests. I therefore think, ladies and gentlemen, that this draft law is the starting point for important interventions in the field, firstly, to settle the blurred landscape in the field of forest cooperatives. The proposals for economic activity in the forestry sector, and in particular, on the basis of the principles of cooperation, demonstrate that the use of valuable forest capital can be made for the benefit of both society and the forest with the backdrop of cooperative principles rather than the robbery neoliberal logic and the unregulated privatization of forestry. This bill aims to create jobs in the countryside and strengthen the local economy, to cover part of the needs for forest protection and management of forest ecosystems by cooperative schemes that are not opposed to the public character of forestry, to maximise the receipt of benefits from forest ecosystems and, finally, to strengthen social responsibility and to protect the forest environment. The forest economy has many potential for growth and can make a significant contribution to the productive reconstruction of the countryside and the primary sector. Today its GDP participation is minimal: less than 0.5% of GDP. And that can be overturned. In 2014, the overall production of wood through forest cooperatives amounted to seven hundred thousand cubic metres in public forests and three hundred eighty-eight thousand cubic metres in private, while the total revenue from forest exploitation amounted to EUR 9,2 million. With the regulations of this bill, therefore, the foundations for the regeneration of forest cooperative organisations are laid in order to bring about a decent income for forest workers and mountainous populations, but also greater involvement of the forest economy in GDP, while at the same time controlling the sustainable management of forests. Colleagues, I consider it important to reiterate the need to re-establish the institutional framework for forest cooperatives and the reasons why they are distinguished by agricultural cooperatives. Forest cooperatives are special-purpose cooperatives and are essentially different from the most common among your agricultural cooperatives, where the cooperatives are farmers, owners, producers. The Ministry's Census shows that in 2009 forest cooperatives amounted to eight hundred ten and numbers amounted to about nine thousand two hundred active members. In a census in progress, the cooperatives seem to be more than a thousand. Their purpose is to carry out forests in public forests and non-public forests, such as community, monasteries and so on. I have to note that forest surveillance of all the forest ecosystems in the country, regardless of their ownership status, is carried out by the state on the basis of the constitutional requirement. The exploitation of forests, in which they operate, are: logging, shaping of primary forest products (technical timber, woodstorming, firewood), displacement of these products from logging to the trunks or towers, as well as the production of gravel pine forest resin in the areas of Evia, Attica, Halkidiki, Corinthia, Boeotia, Lesvos, etc. The quality of the work of forest cooperatives depends to a large extent on the sustainable management of forests and the quality of the products produced. To date, existing legislation has dealt with forest cooperatives in the light of agricultural co-operation and has overlooked the specificities of the area, which has led to many organisational and operational distortions. The most basic distortion was caused by Law 2810/2000, from which there were no specific conditions for the registration of members of the forest labour cooperatives, the specialisation I mentioned earlier, which means that they are registered as members regardless of the trade of the forester and therefore dangerous, for both the profession and the forests themselves. This has now led to the fact that, behind many cooperatives hiding wood merchants, the cooperatives have virtual composition of forest workers in their capacity, usually related to relatives, regardless of the trade of the forester, turning the cooperatives essentially into family or even individual enterprises with the aim of claiming a greater share of the forest complexes to be exploited. In the end, however, real forest workers are unworked and forest management is done on questionable terms. It is very little the bright exceptions to cooperatives that have managed to maintain and increase their active members. Fellow colleagues, the forest cooperative world has been experiencing their real dissolution for many years. This situation has negative consequences even for the work of the forestry services and also for the management and exploitation of the Greek forests as a whole. There are problems, such as: Their non-activity in secondary fruits (forest, ruin roots, aromatic plants, truffles and other forest products) nor in the processing and processing of primary forestry products, which would provide significant economic benefits. The inability of cooperatives to cover the guarantee letters to the State for the award of forestry services to them, thus resorting to timber dealers in order to obtain advances and thus finally form the sale invoice at the lowest possible level. The sale invoice is of particular importance because on this basis the Green Fund Forests Body receives the estimated percentages, which are 12% for technical timber and 5% for firewood, for the concession of the exploitation of public forests to cooperatives. Furthermore, the abandonment of the wood forest which is not of financial interest to them, despite their opposite commitment and the penalties that would entail. In view of the specificities of the forest environment and the specific needs of forest cooperatives, the main points of the bill, which make it necessary to regulate the issues of forest cooperatives, are: Expansion of the activities of forest cooperatives in the marketing, marketing and processing of forestry products. The increase in the minimum number of members required for the establishment and operation of forest cooperatives to twenty-one, as the Minister has said with the legislative improvement he has made. The definition of a forester's status is a prerequisite for obtaining a membership of a forestry cooperative. The financial responsibility of the members is established, which makes them more responsible for the general functioning of the cooperative. The disposal of the products produced shall be compulsory, following the concession of the exploitation of the public forests in the primary TSE by tendering, excluding the direct agreement with the trader. The self-control is established with the reintroduction of the Supervisory Board, which had been abolished by Law 2810/2000. The state supervision of forest cooperatives, the establishment of the Forests Directorate of the Prefecture, as a supervisory authority and the maintenance of a central and regional register of forest cooperative organisations and forest workers shall be organised. In agreement with the relevant case-law of the Ice Bay, the setting-up of new forced forest cooperatives is prohibited and the existing ones, which operate in accordance with Law 2810/2000, are to be maintained. The status of the forester is established through a structured procedure and provision is made for the training of the new entrants in the occupation. Transparency shall be established by involving judicial representatives in the archiving of forest cooperatives and the increased criminal responsibilities of members of the management and supervisory board. It is compulsory for each forest cooperative to adopt internal rules of operation regulating the internal operation of the cooperative. The financial activities of cooperatives shall be transparent. Provision is made for an exceptional contribution to be made to members as a means of preventing the bankruptcy of the cooperative. It is ensured by forest cooperative associations that they do not compete with primary forest cooperatives by establishing a forestry works ban on their behalf or on behalf of their members. It is intended to finance and provide tax and development incentives for forest cooperative organisations. They regulate the issues of adapting the forest cooperative movement to the new specific institutional framework. Before I close, I would like to thank the Minister, who accepted most of the improvements proposed during the discussion with the institutions and especially the foresters themselves, and to highlight once again the need for the immediate adoption of ministerial decisions and the more direct creation of the registers of forest workers and forest organisations to avoid remaining this excellent draft law empty. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the immediate and effective implementation of this bill will revive the world of the countryside where its life is intertwined with the forest. It will demonstrate that the use of valuable forest capital can be done for the benefit of society and forest itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u117	We shall now proceed to the rapporteur-general, Mr Panagiotis Mitsarakis, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. Come on, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill deals with administrative issues relating to forest cooperatives and does not actually deal with key issues such as strengthening and protecting our forest wealth. It does not, for example, contribute to dealing with issues that are sadly overdue, such as forest maps, land registers, forest service suppression. Ladies and gentlemen, our objective must be twofold: on the one hand, the protection of forest, precious national wealth and capital and, on the other hand, as has been discussed in committee, the increase in the participation of this wealth in gross national product, the creation of new jobs, the reduction of our dependence on timber imports. Today, only 0.5% of GDP comes from this great wealth of the country. This bill, as the Minister pointed out, is the result of a long and systematic work of the services of the Ministry of the Environment. It is largely based on the preliminary draft that was ready to be submitted at the end of 2014. In this context, the New Democracy voted 'yes' in principle, as we administratively believe that it covers a gap in existing legislation on forest cooperatives, as it modernises the framework for their establishment, organisation and operation. Initially, this draft law gives the cooperatives the opportunity to take over economic activities such as the marketing, processing and processing of primary products, thereby upgrading their status and their role. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the articles, the bill contains some positive elements, such as the provision of Article 6, so that members of the CSCE and their relatives, following the legislative improvement, cannot be loggers, thus avoiding a clear conflict of interest between the cooperatives and the professional activity of their members. We also think that Article 12 is positive, which provides for the financial responsibility of the members of the cooperatives, by treating pathogens that we have seen in the past. We also consider the contribution of Article 13 to the protection of the cooperative's assets against the debts of its members to third parties. We also voted in favour of Rule 15, which stipulates that members are equal to the general meeting, and each have one vote. In this way, they become equal against the cooperative for making important decisions concerning them. We also considered Article 20 to be positive, which says that the members of the Board of Directors will not receive an additional salary. In this way, it is achieved by not creating a question of individual interests and competition between members. The self-control defined in Article 22, which will be carried out by the Supervisory Board, is also a good thing. The cooperative thus assumes the responsibilities arising from its economic activity and its general function. We also voted 'yes' in Article 41 on the registration of cooperatives in the relevant register in order to ensure their elementary public control. Very important, however, which will appear in practice, Mr Minister, are the development incentives referred to in Articles 42 and 43, where I asked you in committee to clarify the planning, timetable and budget you have in the ministry for such actions. Particularly important is the possibility of this bill for CSCE to strengthen its activities contributing to the protection of forests against fires. However, this should not be left blank, there should not be a simple provision of the bill. There must be concrete actions and a specific budget from now on. Of course, the bill still has issues on which we are expressing remarks, reservations and disagreements. We disagreed with the definition in Articles 3 and 5, to the minimum of twenty-five members. I would remind you that in commercial activity one can establish a one-faced trading company, a person. We believe that the legislative improvement you have tabled is positive in order to reduce this figure to twenty-one. I understand, however, that it will probably remain topics in areas which do not have many woodlands, in areas such as the islands, in which we are now calling for foresters from other counties to come, at the extra cost that this creates, to deal with problems there. For example, recently in Chios because of the fires we had to come a forest cooperative from another county to help us with the projects needed to protect the island against flooding. Furthermore, we still have disagreements with Article 44. Since CSCE will now be able to have more activities, it means that they will have to work, with full and exclusive employment, and other executives, scientific staff and administrative staff. However, the bill under discussion does not allow those persons who will make their livelihoods dependent on the cooperative to become regularly members and thus have equal participation in the profits that their work creates. We therefore reserve this article. And we want to hear the Minister's view on this article, which finally creates something to which you should have been opposed, namely two-speed workers, while having access to the profits of the cooperative, and not to them. Finally, the training of the essays provided for in Article 5, as I have pointed out in the committee, is an important consideration of the law, but in practice it becomes problematic because the relevant forest directorates are highly subordinated. This means that alternative locations of certification and training for test foresters from the Ministry or other organisations should now be provided for. I also hope that there is a need for a regulatory act by the administration, not to cause delay in the functioning of the institutions provided for in the relevant draft law. We are also voting against Article 21 with the same reasoning as we mentioned in the draft law on agricultural cooperatives. We do not think that the state needs to intervene in every small detail in the way, for example, of the cooperative elections. There must be a flexibility. We believe in state supervision, as laid down in Article 24, but only to the extent necessary for the minimum functioning of cooperatives, without creating bureaucratic obstacles to this new institution. Finally, we are voting against Article 39, since the Pan-Hellenic Confederation does not take on any specific powers under the law and therefore there is no need for legislation to create another organisation if regional associations do not consider that they want to create it in practice. If they want to create it, general legislation covers this need. I would also like you, Minister, to clarify paragraph 5 of Article 48. With the addition of Article 136a to the Forest Code, it is now impossible for two cooperatives to be given the right to work in the same forest. This will create, if they exist beyond one cooperative in a municipality, the difficult position of the master should choose between one or the other. We would like that to be explained. In closing the bill, before I go to the amendments that have been incorporated into the committee, I have to say that for us - I will say it again - it is very positive - and I hope it does not cause you to withdraw it - Article 50, which recognises the logic of the fast track, the logic of having an absolute priority and a strict deadline for for forty-five days for the designation of areas in which major investment is planned, the operation of business parks, tourist facilities and other similar uses. This, for me, was a positive surprise, because you were ideologically until recently firmly opposed to facilitating such investments. Of course, the fact that yesterday in this Chamber we discussed the ratification of the Greek Convention shows - even late - that there is a ray of logic in your economic policy. But certainly not enough and certainly a ray that many members of the SYRIZA - as it appeared yesterday - even top government ministers think it is a defeat in the process - I do not remember the term - 'democratic socialism' if I learned it well. And because, Minister, yesterday you referred to the Greek and I did not have the opportunity to reply to you, let me say that in the end the work is progressing in the form originally chosen, but two years later. These two years of delay - according to IOBE - deprived the country of EUR 1 billion of economic product and finally yesterday we ratified the 2014 Convention with minor changes, but they do not change the substance. Very simply, the same area you grant, for the same period of time, the same price you receive and the exact same metropolitan park will be created. All that changed is that you get - says - 51% of the price within two years. This, however, is a gift, because normally, if the contract had been ratified in 2014, you would receive 300 million, now in November 2016, now that you need them, now that you are cutting off widow's pensions for 11 million. With the contract that we voted on yesterday, this money will be collected in 2018. As regards the amendments, ladies and gentlemen, which were incorporated into the bill, I will repeat something I have said in this Chamber as rapporteur: almost all your amendments are generally related to three areas. Whether they give extensions for something that you did not catch up with or create new structures or create new recruitments. Finally, as a general rule, this is what we see in these amendments. With regard to Article 51 on the Banking Code, we are voting 'at present' because it tackles this issue fragmentaryly, as a number of ministerial decisions will still be required and impose a burden on the State budget. In Article 52 we are voting 'at present' because neither the planning nor how many positions this amendment relates to. But we shall vote in favour of Article 53, which is a procedural one. Minister, you referred briefly - and Mr Skourlet should probably have come, with all due respect, to the committee - when we discussed the amendment with a general number of 678 and a special 65 on IPTO, which has been incorporated as Article 54. It would be legally right to withdraw this article and to integrate it into the multi-legislative draft - supported by Mr Skourletis - because it concerns privatisation, it concerns prerequisites for the privatisation of IPTO. If this request is not accepted, we are saying that we are voting against Rule 54. We are voting in favour of Articles 55 and 56, the first because it facilitates competition and the gas market and the second because it is moving in the right direction towards dealing with the major waste management issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we have expressed a number of reservations and a number of comments which we believe the Minister will answer. In general, however, we voted 'yes' in the bill. We believe in the cooperatives' foundation, and we believe that the state should only intervene to the point where, in this case, the protection of our forest heritage, the natural wealth of our country, is guaranteed. In addition, cooperatives should operate on the basis of the rules of the free market, the free will of their members. They must be fully responsible for their economic activity and they must define through their statutes what concerns their own organisation, self-control and operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Shahinides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the first time forest cooperatives are treated as autonomous entities and an institutional framework is created for their operation. So far they have been subject to the institutional framework applicable to agricultural cooperatives, which has created many questions and many gaps in the correctness of their operation. The draft law on Forest cooperative organisations is therefore called upon to address issues relating to the management and exploitation of forests with a view to improving the organisation and operation of forest cooperative organisations in order to allow sustainable management of forest ecosystems. Sustainable management requires the reconnection of society and the natural environment, its protection and productive reconstruction of the countryside. In this way the forestry economy can be developed and the object of forest cooperatives beyond logging can be extended. The main concern of forest cooperatives was to protect the Greek forests and not to protect them. Unfortunately, however, the immunity of the contractors who undertake forestry works and the shrinking of forests in the name of development prevent the realisation of the protection of the forest wealth of our country. So far, forest cooperatives have been set up, made up of few members and essentially family enterprises aimed, in principle, at trade in timber, because they are economic organizations which have been limited to the field of logging. Their commercial character is not going to change despite the fact that the number of their members is increasing and despite the fact that they will have to be made up of forest workers. It is a positive development to ensure the status of a forester, as it concerns people with experience, education and technical knowledge. Forestry is a resident, mainly, of mountainous areas with difficult working conditions which have to be employed in various other sectors in order to make a living. It is therefore a good thing that the profession of the forester, which will have direct effect on the actual and effective protection of the Greek forests, is well known. With regard to Article 5, the participation of foresters in cooperatives, like the increase in the number of members, is expected to give objectivity and excellence to the structure and functioning of the organisations. A number of problems had been encountered in the past between the members of forest cooperatives and there was a clear lack of qualified scientific staff. The result of these, in many cases, was the incomplete drafting of studies, mainly for the recovery of burnt areas to be restored. With regard to Article 3, the increase in the number of seven to twenty-five in many cases - we also pointed it out to committees, Minister - makes it impossible to set up a cooperative, because it does not take into account particularly geographical and population characteristics. Therefore, the number should be reviewed, even under the twenty-one you have said. In Article 6 and with regard to the hindrances, we are positive to those listed, but with the following observation: Not only can anyone who is a trader of timber, himself or his/her husband, but also relatives of blood, so that parents or children of timber dealers, who indirectly removes the embezzlement of the same. Article 24 states that the state supervision of Forest Work Partnerships is necessary, as it concerns actions on our national wealth. For Article 46, and with regard to the Forced Forest Collaborations, I would like to say the following: they are rightly not abolished, because there would be a lot of problems that would result from such a development. The essential problem of these cooperatives was the lack of transparency and control over their operation, resulting in a group of shareholders having the possibility of uncontrollable management of these cooperatives at the expense of the whole, using its methodology in order to amend the statutes. A particular reference should be made to Articles 42 and 43, which introduce an incentive and tax exemption for Forest Cooperative Organisations. It is obvious that these incentives result in a loss of revenue on the State budget, which is demonstrated by the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. But, at the same time, it should be clarified whether funds are available for the financing of cooperatives. It is important to mention that the recently adopted development law provides tax incentives for large investments of more than EUR 20 million. This bill provides these incentives to forest cooperatives. It is worth wondering why small and medium-sized enterprises, which are considered to be the backbone of the economy, do not do the same. Why are these incentives being given selectively? If the rulings want to give an incentive to the economy and incentives for new investments or incentives to continue to exist, then, Minister, this flexibility should apply to all sectors. Articles 51 to 56 - which were amendments and have been incorporated into the draft law - all include provisions which are irrelevant to the content of the draft law. They were tabled as amendments that were accepted during the drafting of the bill. This is a repetitive phenomenon, throughout the present government, like your predecessors, and no longer makes us any impression. Article 51 is another Memorandum of Understanding. It is about creating a new profession, a new professional class, which will exercise the responsibilities of the judiciary, the ombudsman, the Special Representative and the Special Clearer, in which the respective functions are provided for in the Banking Code. The aim is to create an appropriate framework to facilitate the collection, in all possible ways, of risky and non-performing loans amounting to several billion euros, which are burdened by the Greek people. In this way, the appropriate conditions are created for the management of red loans by selling them to foreign funds, so-called ‘brows’, or by joint management of them by collecting companies. I would remind you here, Minister, that you voted, together with the constitutional arch, in November, for a ratification of a European reconstruction and development bank. This bank - as the competitor Yiannis Lagos has said - has such tax exemptions and is one of the contenders of red loans. Of what's been made public, they want to claim 30% to 40% of red loans. But tell us, Minister, once this bank does not pay taxes from its profits, how will it be taxed when it gets the'red' loans from Greek citizens and there will be a profit in relation to Greek citizens, who should have the right to precede the funds in terms of their loans? Article 52 provides the possibility of appointment to the Council of State - as is the case with the Court of Auditors - of graduates from the National School of Judiciary in the event of the absence of organic positions of rapporteurs. Thus, however, personal organic positions are being created in a judiciary that operates adequately with the existing potential. Articles 53 to 55: The amendments refer to essential goods of first concern. Of course we will say 'no' to all these amendments that have been incorporated. We will say 'no', because we say 'no' to divest strategic institutions and bodies. And as we have repeatedly told you as Golden Dawn, we will regain what has to do with essentials of first need, such as water and energy. In some Latin and South American countries, which you had as models, Minister, such as Bolivia and Venezuela - which have done before you what you want to do now - you see that water and energy are a rare species in which only 15% to 20% of the total population of its citizens have access. We, as Golden Dawn, will not allow that. More specifically, Article 53 energizes and exploits the institution of the Water Councils, which has so far remained inactive, as a means of social dialogue and consultation for the exercise of political protection and water management in the country. In fact, the Council participates, among other things, a representative of all environmental non-governmental organisations, those financed by Mr Soros - Mr! - whereas representatives of scientific bodies, institutions or bodies may participate at meetings. Obviously, the provision moves towards the "social economy by social enterprises", announced by the Prime Minister at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. If this provision is voted on, then you are actually giving the non-governmental organisations a simple opportunity to actively participate in the management of another wealthy source of our country, water, with the blessings, of course, of the present coup d'état, fully carrying out the orders of the globalists. With Article 54 you are trying to prevent dates. In fact, Minister, it makes us a terrible impression because the prerequisites you have not brought, and they have a final date on 31 October, with the prospect that they should be voted on by the beginning of October, you have brought them to us today, after the Conference of Presidents, in a committee on Monday to vote together. Of course, you have managed to pass some amendments to the bills that have passed over the past few days. It doesn't surprise us that all of you are competing for who will sell more quickly and with less valuable public property. I'm going to continue for IPTO. Article 54 refers to the time needed to replace the complete ownership separation of IPTO by PPC. This provision amends the provisions on the tendering for the ownership of IPTO and is defined for the conclusion of PPC’s market-sharing contract with the preferred strategic investor. No prior transfer is required to its shareholders of the shares in the holding company. On the basis of this, the schedule of sale was, first of all, to dismantle IPTO and pass 51% of the company’s shares to PPC’s shareholders and then complete the sale of 24% to conclude the contract with the preferred strategic investor. So under pressure of time, as I mentioned, Mr Minister, you obviously thought that the sale of 24% of IPTO must take precedence and then follow the recommendation of IPTO. This natural provision contributes catalytically to speeding up the procedures for the privatisation of IPTO. Article 55 includes changes concerning certain definitions of natural gas, and for the first time is included in the concept of supply and compressed natural gas, the well-known CNG. There is also a detailed description of the distribution networks at Attiki, Thessaloniki and Thessaly, as they have already developed and are to be developed on the basis of the approved development programme, and the distribution network of the rest of Greece is also defined. The aim is to use gas from as many consumers as possible, while more efficient gas penetration is considered to lead to lower distribution tariffs. Therefore, this provision facilitates the penetration and transfer of natural gas, but tariffs cannot be established in advance, as revenue from this rich energy source will also be made available for debt write-down and thus under the control of creditors. Article 56 provides for the possibility of setting up waste transhipment stations and their accompanying works in forests, forests and reservoirs and public grassland and rocky areas of Evia and Crete, as applicable to all other island areas where there was difficulty in finding suitable areas. According to the Minister, this provision is necessary for the installation of waste transhipment stations on the above areas. We cannot, however, fail to observe that the provision in question essentially comes, Mr Minister, to complete Article 50, which contributes to the creation of a favourable framework for the construction of installations, storage, management or treatment of liquid and solid waste water. Of course, we do not fail to mention the EUR billions that have been set up throughout the whole territory by co-operatives with contracts with local regions, serving private interests, and in any case do not have the national and public interest as a whole. In conclusion, although the aim according to the explanatory statement is better management of forests, we understand that the objective is to further liberalise the forest market and further supply them. The policy of the irresponsible and treacherous present government is reflected in every piece of legislation. There is no attempt to improve the existing institutional frameworks - let alone create new ones, Minister - while their fragmentation states your embarrassment and the lack of any national plan. Our natural wealth, our forests and every public asset must be protected in every way, what is left of course. We must not allow them to be privatised and supplied by wrong practices, which will lead to sad results at the expense of our national interest. We have repeatedly said - and I say it again, closing - that Golden Dawn commits anything that is sold to get it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u121	I would like to inform you that ten colleagues - as far as I can see - have almost everyone's time - have been written, which means that reasonably between 17.00 and 18.00 in the afternoon we can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u123	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like you to take into account in your programming that there are also parliamentary representatives. I personally am interested in being placed. I don't know about other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u125	Okay. As soon as the speakers are done, and the Minister talks, you'll be inquiring anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u127	You, too, have counted both the Members of Parliament and the other speakers and the Minister, as a whole, those who are to speak. We can be around 17:00 with 18:00 and be done. I told you more about planning your further work. My colleague has the floor from the Democratic Assent, Mr Mikhail Jellonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill on forest cooperative organisations and other provisions. We are discussing a bill in a political environment where all Greek society monitors the reality that has been formed about the process of television licences. It seems, however, that only the Greek society is watching it, not the Ministries. I would like to ask: Since Mr Kalogritsa's pastures are the guarantee to get a television licence, and we hear every day that these five thousand pastures include woodlands and land of the public, what action on the part of the relevant Ministry - since the Minister is here - has been taken in this direction to clarify in these five thousand acres what are forest land, which of the public and the property of them? This is the news as it is shaped and we cannot "who is the island". In committee, where there was a debate on today's bill, there was a controversy with the Deputy Minister with regard to forest maps, which had no personal features, but purely political. Because it is not possible to discuss the sustainable management of forests and the facilitation of logging when the necessary measures have not been taken in this direction. In fact, I would call on the President of the Technical Chamber of Greece that the Land register and forest maps are perhaps the most development projects to be done in the country, the ones that need to be prioritised so that public and private investments can be made. Unfortunately, you can no longer claim that you do not have government time. You have twenty months now. Your actions have now been recorded. In this time when you are responsible, you have done absolutely nothing in this direction. Simplifiedly, you came in May and in spite of all the objections of the TEE, the GEOTE and the forestologists, you overthrowed the legal framework that existed before and restore the previous proven failed and costly model, to justify your inactivity and, on the one hand, to try to cover the responsibility of the fine for ten counties of the country. This is what we are talking about and do not give us much talk, trying to throw away the ball on the platform, since your contribution so far to this project, which we have established and completed for half of the country, was, on the one hand, not to go forward with the posting for twenty months and, on the other, you have no plan for drawing up forest maps for the rest of the country, with the risk that the public will not be able to submit a statement of ownership for its property, and that is what you are aware of, since you have secured the EUR 400 million for the contractors who will make the realisation and you are at the stage of the assignment of this project. Furthermore, I would also like to know why Attica is excluded from the lists and why the maps do not go any further in this area. I now come to the bill under discussion. What is behind the provisions, articles and laws is not your disposal for real and substantial change, but for the imposition and absolute and complete control, as is your political nature, in an institution of the social economy, dealing with forest cooperatives, as you have done with previous law on agricultural cooperatives, as legal entities governed by public law. Hold it all up! This draft law on forest cooperatives presented it as a panacea. In fact, I was in the relevant committees that caused me to vote against, as I disagreed with the political nature of this bill. Well, Minister, I will not do this to you, because I am not from the SYRIZA area, but I should like to say more. Despite all my reservations about the problematic provisions and the philosophy that this bill has, as I have set you out to the committee, and because of my experience and experience in the cooperative area, I cannot say 'no', at least in a bill that does not bring anything new, except that you are raising the members and taking them to twenty-five of the twenty-five of one and that you are changing the political body and supervision, after you have taken it from the Ministry of Rural Development and went to the Ministry of Agriculture. It is a bad stitch of articles in previous laws, 2810/2000, 602/17, 1520/40 and 4384/16. Because you come and say that, you know, you can't handle everything, you can't all in themselves regulate, even in anonymous corporations there's Law 2190-1920 I'll highlight to you - a law that in its core has never been tampered with. But it has become a habit, I would say, of all the parties in the social economy and the cooperatives every five years to change the legal framework. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law contradicts Article 12(4) of the Constitution on autonomy and self-government of cooperatives in cooperative authorities, in particular voluntary and free participation in cooperatives, democratic administration by its members, financial participation by members, autonomy and independence of education, information, cooperation between cooperatives. Cooperatives of all kinds are based on international principles and values - we are not here today discovering the wheel - which their members must be able to use according to their needs and objectives. A government, such as the SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état, really cannot understand it because it is so much in the internals of the cooperatives, whether they are agricultural cooperatives or forests. Why should the state, and not the association itself, define the election procedures and procedures, the vote, where it will sell and how it will sell, and how much more will be managed? Firstly, their collectiveness and democratic and transparent administration is achieved by their statutes responsible for the members. Why such interference in their homes? A single law on cooperatives is sufficient for the functioning of this important institution, which has man at the heart of his right. In advanced European countries where cooperatives thrive, especially forest cooperatives, we have a law, such as Denmark and Norway, with a large number of forest cooperatives. Instead of legislating poorly, it is better to take care of the dissemination of the institution. The agricultural cooperatives are obviously included in forest cooperatives always, i.e. since the first cooperative law, n. 602/17. Forest cooperatives do not constitute special-purpose cooperatives, as stated in the explanatory report contained in the draft law, since the existing provisions do not define which of the special-purpose cooperatives are to make it understand the important claim of the report on which it provides, in particular, its view on the need for a new legislative framework. The first important point, therefore, is the fact that, having both the entry into force of the Treaty of Rome, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4384/2016, as well as the forced Law 1627, is completely unnecessary a new law, which allegedly comes to resolve the problems of forests exclusively cooperatives, whereas in reality three things are happening: First, it copys, as I said, poorly, almost all of the regulations of Law 2810, moving on to exhaustive analytical references, which do not concern a legislature but a statute. The draft law is not just a fruit of legislative meditation, it leads to bureaucratic perception and struggling. Secondly, it is trying to resolve issues exclusively for forest cooperatives. So on the issue of the number of members, it just increases the number. Here I would like to state that at global level the average number of members of forest cooperatives is between five and ten. We are a global originality that we are more than twenty members. I mention some countries: Argentina ten members, Australia five members, Belgium three members, Canada five members. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, the issue of financial responsibility, the issue of judicial representatives, the issue of criminal liability, as well as of the urban and supervisory boards, the system of archivisms, the issue of the supervisory authority, which was the Ministry of Rural Development and, as I have said now, the issue of the rules of procedure of surpluses and profits, of extraordinary contributions, the issues of winding-up and winding-up, are the same as those of Law 2810, as they were written. Even the question of the insolvency proceedings was in predominant law and you are now bringing it back to the present draft law, just as you do with the regulation of the supervisory board. Also, a significant error in the proposed draft is the correlation between the regions of the country and the region and the headquarters of the associations of forest cooperatives. Cooperatives could define the limits of their action, which is expressed in the UN guidelines. Despite the arguments put forward by the Minister responsible that this draft law is, as I have stressed, panacea or a golden solution, I fear that several provisions are uncooperative and dangerous. Because in the debate in the relevant committees, the Minister said that this bill will go ahead and we will see it, I would like to stress that it is at the heart of your philosophy, that you experiment at everything: in the banks, in the referendums. Cooperatives, however, are not experimental animals. They're social business. We cannot say 'we will see, see, if what happens'. Cooperatives are alive. And where the country is today cannot play and experiment with them. You did this to the agricultural cooperatives and we see the results, the absolute dissolution, instead of the resolution. We don't learn from mistakes, we just adapt the laws to our ideas. This is the direction of this bill. Law 2810/2000 before its amendment regulated agricultural cooperatives, of course. For the know-how it is a piece of legislation that respects cooperative principles and values, including the basic cooperative principle of democratic administration and operation, which you remove from the definition of forest cooperatives with the proposed draft law. Contrary to the preamble to the report, the draft law, as mentioned above, has the legal form of a contract, that is to say, a statute which emerges in detail which it does not have to regulate, since they are the subject of the statute, that is to say, a decision by the partners to regulate their homes. The proposed draft law is, in terms of evolution of cooperative legislation and institution, an anachronistic draft law. And because, Minister, on this point in my committee, it seems to me that your irritation has become rather noticeable, I would like to stress to you once again that the demand and substance for the cooperatives to become more operational and competitive is neither the number of members for the establishment of the cooperative, nor the amount of the cooperative, nor the antiquities, which have been resolved many years ago by the theorists in practice, but to avoid the tight state embrace of cooperatives. That is why I call it "remodernistic" the draft law, because in Greece of 2016 and at the point where our country has come today we must table plans for strengthening forestry, promoting its export character, extending the areas of the cooperatives' action, the forest in this case. State intervention in cooperatives, to which the State is intervening in any way, is deemed to affect constitutionally regulated principles of aid for their development, to create false cooperatives in accordance with the UN guidelines, where the State is involved. Many times there is a feeling in both Law No.4384/2016 and in the proposed draft law that we read laws that, as I said, refer to legal entities governed by public law. After all, this is rather your political philosophy and I am not surprised about it. After all, it is immediately understood how difficult it is to express a constructive opinion on the articles when the same legislation violates fundamental principles governing the institution. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this endless communication game of yours should sometime stop. The whole productive world of the country is in despair and, in particular, the rural world. Honestly, any interlocutor, any fellow citizen who follows this debate today, really has a question: Are these the urgent things we need to discuss today, when the agricultural production order is destroyed by the tax raid, the incursion, when there is no care to support their production, while problems are growing every day and are unresolved on the part of the government, which is following developments awkwardly? So set up a comprehensive and structured operational plan to modernise cooperatives with a law, which will not be contrary to cooperative principles, will be more flexible, extroverted and will provide for the rational management of forests on specific terms under specific conditions. Enclose cooperatives from your state-owned logic to become market regulators, to have a decisive role in the recovery of the economy by industry and not to be state bodies. In Articles 1, 3, 5, 11, 20, 25 and 29 we say 'no' and 'no' in Articles 23 and 37. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u129	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. With the bill that we are debating today and which is a follow-up to the policies of the Greek governments adapting to national policy on land use, forests, Euro-Union policy, the European Union's forestry policy is part of the Europe 2020 strategy. It is implemented through the Common Agricultural Policy, industrial and energy policy, climate, biodiversity, bio-economy and the green economy. The contribution of forests to achieving the objectives and objectives of the European Union shall be ensured. All these interventions form a single policy framework for the bourgeoisie and the European Union, which is part of the acceleration of capitalist restructuring. And forest cooperatives on this course are the strap, the vehicle to pass these policies. In view of this situation, SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence overshadows the cause that exacerbates the problems of forest ecosystems, forest land, which is the capitalist development path. It proposes another form of management with productive reconstruction and the new forest policy, but recognises the activities of the monopolistic groups in state and forestry ecosystems. It speaks, it says, to responsible and healthy entrepreneurs, to whom it will ensure a stable tax system, a stable spatial and environmental framework. It builds its alliances, while seeking to present itself as a philosophical government, but within the European Union, as a better manager of Greece's capitalist development path. It develops the illusion that there can be development, protection of forest ecosystems that can both benefit the people and monopolistic groups. The policy of land and the protection of forest ecosystems are the rings of a whole chain of legislation that promotes the commercialisation of land. The strategy of the bourgeoisie is to serve the interests of the monopoly business groups, as we have said, through sustainable green development. All urban governments over time treat forests as a profitable way out for monopolistic groups. So when monopolies win, they make the necessary changes to their use. They make them settlements, building cooperatives, villas, hotels, tourist resorts. In fact, they use forest fires as a weapon, as well as forest laws, in order either to legitimise violations and expulsions that have taken place in the past, or to change the entire forest ecosystem. So, let's see and have an example, the last law, Mr.4280/2014, gives the opportunity, as we mentioned, for these interventions. Of course, before we arrived at Law 4280/2014, we had all these years of legislative intervention that opened the way to exploiting private property in the forests. We had Law 998/1979 of the New Democracy. Later we had the n. PASOK No 100734/1987. We then had the 2001 Constitutional Review and Law 3208/2003. In particular, the Revision of the Constitution and Law 3208 also came to the name of sustainable development. In fact, however, it has made it easier for forest ecosystems to trade further. Then came L.4280, which gives the opportunity for all kinds of intervention to business groups and any plans they decide on. It's the law that SYRIZA said he would abolish. So what does Law 4280 provide for, which remains in force? All kinds of intervention in forests, from fuel tanks to waste management facilities, industrial units, business parks. Law 4280 has legitimised illegal expulsions, violations, divisions, sales, recognizing non-existent property rights. Also, by concise procedures they have been allocated to large-scale operators - investors for renewable energy entire ridges across the country for the installation of wind turbines. They have literally been the mountains of our country. Don't tell us, Minister, that these are not forests. These wind turbines in these areas create huge problems in livestock farming, and in general in the lives of wild animals and birds. Who are they? They are four big businessmen, who fill their funds with energy, while on the other hand we have energy poverty on the other hand. To open up the road to forest exploitation well, urban governments over time reduced expenditure on forest protection management. And this situation has come to be truly tragic over the past ten years, since for forestry ecosystems, which account for about 60% of our country's territory, the state is given less and less money every year. That is, in recent years, as much money as half the Attica Street cost. The forest service is detached from scientific, technological, forest, administrative staff, while forest guards are as many mountains as are in the country. So what does SYRIZA - ANEL Government do? Is it going to be faced with problems of managing and protecting forests? Are they going to face their basic problems? Do they manage and protect forests integrated with state responsibility? Really, how does the public property currently manage in most of the co-owned forests, where the state has 1/5? Did it become the forest register or the forest maps? Of course not. You are entirely consistent with the nature, orientation and interests that government policy serves and implements in the forestry sector. Let's see now what forest cooperatives you want. You want forest cooperatives that respond to the current level of development of capitalism in Greece and in this context the bill we are discussing is also integrated. What's new with the bill? In Articles 1, 46, 47 and 50, we have broadening the scope, which favours the creation and development of capitalist relations and businesses. You come with the bill to be sober that you will ensure the profession of a forest worker, the operation of forestry cooperatives and commercial holdings, as shown in paragraph 1 of Article 1. This is why you also broaden the scope of the activity in accordance with Article 1(3) and (4) by providing development incentives in Article 42 and tax exemptions in Article 43. The purpose is to concentrate the forestry object on fewer enterprises - forest cooperatives. We call on the foresters, those who fight for the cut, not to deceit, to see clearly what happened with the agricultural cooperatives. You feed them the same things then. You told them that they were going to be entrepreneurs, that they would get rich and what we have today is that the large majority, almost all of them, have been bankrupt. Another example is the women's cooperatives, who went bankrupt, closed down and left with the women who had created them. You will accelerate the creation, for example, of wood processing plants. Really, who's gonna work on them? Employers, not miners of the cooperative. They will be shareholders and they will gain from goodwill, the unpaid work of the workers. In your bill, there are also contradictions, since the forest service will take over the management of privately owned, owned and publicly owned forests, as referred to in Article 48(3), and any profits they gain will give to the owners who have done nothing for their forests. At the same time, in the next paragraph, the concession for the exploitation of public forests by forest cooperatives, as provided for in Article 48(5), is generalised, blocking the basic responsibility for the protection and management of state forest ecosystems from forestry services. In addition, the Government through the Minister responsible for the placement at the hearing expressed the government's perception, the policy on forest cooperatives. He said that since the forest is wealth, i.e. merchandise and a source of profit, it must act as such. Therefore, forest cooperatives should not be treated as they are today, but the government's vision is new forest cooperatives with surpluses, with profits, with real estate. It confirmed the JRC’s assessment that the Government’s intention with the Forest Cooperatives Act is to function as commercial undertakings in the context of competition and profitability. Of course, the Minister is absent, and we must tell him here that the committee has accused the JRC of referring everything to socialism and to popular power. We respond to him: When he is dislocated by the shit-buttons and the Objections he makes every day, as yesterday with the sale of the Greek, as today with the forests, to see that the JRC has proposals for today, which he discusses with workers in the workplace. It gives the battle to organize their struggle, to alleviate the consequences of your barbaric policy, to breathe. But, Mr Chironi, we don't give them any illusions and lies. We are not telling them that they can co-exist with the profits of the monopolistic groups, people's interests and popular prosperity. This is a Syrian invention. We tell them clearly that in order to find definitive solutions to their suffering they must fight for another policy that serves their own needs, hold up the wealth they produce. For the JRC forest ecosystems constitute the backbone of the natural environment and the main area of primary production. For the Communist Party of Greece the forests are social people's property and property. Their integrated management and protection must be carried out in the interests of the working class, the people's strata and not the capitalist profit. They can only be exploited in the context of a radically different development path. It presupposes social property on land, forest ecosystems, scientific and central economic planning, labour control and a different organisation of production, which will satisfy the widespread popular needs and environmental protection, on the basis of all economic, social and environmental criteria, by abolishing capitalist property. Such a combination will satisfy all these needs. Labour power as such will also organise the development of forest and paradoxical areas. It will ensure integrated management, protection and development of forest ecosystems with safe and stable working conditions. Forgers, like the other human potential that forest ecosystems manage, do productive work not only for the moment, but essentially preserve the productive basis for the future, not only for the economy, but also for the environment and for life itself. That is why people's power will ensure that they meet the people's needs of tens of thousands of permanent staff full of work all year round, scientific, technological, forest and other staff from the services responsible for protecting, managing forests, in another organisation of the economy and society, which will be guaranteed with modern infrastructures. It will ensure the whole of life, health, protection against accidents, which are more dangerous due to geomorphology and soil relief. It will have education and culture, so that the children of the forester can remain in the countryside, because life is not just about work, but about all the social needs. We are voting against the bill under discussion in principle and we will be placed in the articles in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, too. Mr. Amyras has the floor, a special speaker from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today called upon to legislate on forest cooperatives that have a decisive role, not only for forests in which they are active, but for all the local gain, as I say, whether in terms of cultural, environmental or purely economic terms. Of course, you cannot ignore the general political debate on forests and pastures. I was watching, dear Minister, yesterday in an AlPHA news bulletin, a report that they made in Ithaca and presented images of blocked forest roads with an open door, an ancient path that is also mentioned in the Homer, which is also closed, without the world having access. I ask you, as the Ministry of the Environment, will you be mobilized to see if the closure of these forest roads is legal or not? If - beating wood - in Ithaca, in the area where the pastures are Kalogrisa there is a fire risk and must pass a fire-fighting vehicle, will it find the bar closed? Forests, pastures, the environment is a very important matter to allow it to be degraded or mobilised by Kalogris and other healthy - of course, in introductory - business forces. We must show here that there is a state that controls and knows how to respond to anyone's illegality. Of course, firefighting plays an important role in protecting our forests. I can only read, with a sadness, a skepticism, the resignation of the Chief of the Firehouse, following his disagreements with the Minister responsible and chief of Minister Toska for the judgments of the officers of this House. All of this influences, affects and risks diminishing the effort we are all making to create a legislative framework for the development of forest wealth, in terms of sustainability and seriousness. Ladies and gentlemen, 25% of the Greek territorial area is considered forest, another 25% is considered forest area. So we realise how important it is to draw up and develop forest maps and the Land register. Of course, the services of the ministries do not work in empty law. Of course, there are the management plans for forests and areas, but the longer we are waiting for forest maps and the land register, as another Arta Fieste, the longer we fall short of the use of a valuable tool that can free the value of the land. Many responsibilities to many, but we are again coming before the paradox that I mentioned to you at the first meeting of our committee, namely the fact that today we are paying a fine of EUR 10 million imposed on us by the European Court of Justice in 2009 for the non-implementation of the Waste Law and the European Treaties. Our fine is 10m euros, such as 10m euros is revenue from total wood production in Greece in the year 2014 in public and non-public forests. So it's Sisyphus, who's doing all the effort and then gets back to work with no result at first. What micro-enterprises and micro-cooperatives have collected in one year since the exploitation of wood, so much money has been lost from the black hole, because the previous governments - they have a great responsibility for this - have not implemented European legislation and now we have to pay what they should not be on the agenda. There are other "black holes". I shall refer here to the ERT. If you remember, ladies and gentlemen, in October 2015, last year, we had at the hearing bodies of the ERT administration, the chairman, the CEO and the Director of the Technical Services of the ERT, that is, respectively, we had Mr Tsakni, Major and Mr Michalitsis, and the administration of the ERT then committed before the committee that the tender would have been finalised for the ERT, to buy the digital services it needs to be released from the DIGEA and broadcast on its own platform. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, with its decision, under number 16053 on 6-9-2016, the administration decided to pay an amount of EUR 201,771 to DIGEA as a tranche of the contract for the transfer and transmission of the ERT digital signal. I remember that then the SYRIZA MPs had applauded the administration of ERT, when they said "we cut off with DIGEA" and from now on this money will not go missing, but we will move on to our platform". What happened to that? Sadly, there's a regression. Ladies and gentlemen, we are positive about the draft law under discussion. We told the committees that too. We consider it important that there is now a register and forest cooperatives and also foresters, so as to avoid black work, the threat due to a lack of professional certification and training, which puts the forest at risk and those who undertake such forestry work without having the necessary supplies. The Democritus University of Thrace even offered to provide theoretical education and practical training to the members of the new forest cooperatives. It's a very positive thing. We would like you to keep it, Minister, to think seriously, so that you do not recycle the experience of the old only among younger foresters, but enrich the technique with new tactics and new progress in this area. For Article 32, for the bankruptcy procedure, we insist that in the event of proven fraudulent bankruptcy, there should be penalties for members of the cooperative. We therefore consider that forest wealth is of great added value and that is why we must all move quickly and responsibly so that we can see how we are going to deal with, by putting in place uniform rules and applying the rules already in place, desertification, fires, arbitrary construction and forest trespasses. We believe that forest cooperatives have a very important role to play on these open fronts, which reduce forests and lead them to destruction several times. Before I go to the amendments that have been incorporated and to which I would like to say a few words, I would say that Article 50, which provides for a fast track procedure, is the continuation of yesterday's debate and a vote here, of the ratification of the Greek Convention. I see the Left and ANEL government slowly - although I do not think that they would have a particular problem with fast track procedures if there were to be a big investment - it is coming and it actually moves around. Also, for the Ministerial Amendment No 678 and special 65, which has been incorporated into the bill as Article 54 for IPTO, I would say to you why you rushed to bring this amendment and did not wait until tomorrow to the prerequisites. It is also the IPTO in the prerequisites that we could discuss this in a single way, in greater depth. I fear that many of our colleagues are not familiar with the issues of IPTO to such an extent, the debate will unfortunately not take place in depth and we lose an opportunity to see what is going to happen with the electricity transmission operator and why the sale of 24% of IPTO is going to proceed first and then the holding company, which has been set up, approved by the decision of the general meeting of the company, will be established. In addition, we have to say that the law has already been amended twice since its entry into force in almost one year. As of 1 October 2016, the applicable law was originally defined as the date of 1 October 2016. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition, the provision in twelve paragraphs provides for the adoption, without a time limit, of seven delegated acts. So what I'm saying is that this is a common way, unfortunately, in Greek legislative practice, where the starting point is always backwards. At some point, however, we should begin to legislate differently so that the legislation is sound and that they have a real response to both the economy and the areas where they are supposed to be intervening in order to regulate them. Finally, for the amendment of a general number 668 and a special number 58, we would just like to point out the following. The increase in the organic positions of judges is necessary and imperative in order to address the long-term problem of subsistence and, in particular, of the Council of State. I have said so many times, but it is important, because the Council of State passes'very boulevards', I would say, investments made'monopaths' or vice versa and therefore, we must quickly and clearly know what parts of the road map of an investment are or know that it cannot be done so that the economic environment can be shaped accordingly. We are therefore in agreement, in principle, to vote in favour of the draft law. For some articles - two or three, I will tell you when the time comes - we have some reservations. We continue and hope that you will hear our proposals for defending above all and developing the country's forest wealth as an essential tool to get out, at last, in what we are all saying, in the clearing, away from the pit of crisis and stagnation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u133	We now arrive at the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides. We'll hang up with Mr. Ioannis Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the peculiarities and the chronic problems of the industry have been the decisive factor in the drafting of this new institutional framework for forest cooperatives. The proposed bill puts forest co-operation on a new basis and has broad consensus, since the participating actors and parties have accepted it with a positive attitude. As far as we are concerned, this special arrangement had to have been done for years, because it had to be made to a large extent, as well as the quality of the products produced. With the appropriate development and tax incentives and better exploitation of our forest wealth, we will also be able to increase yield and expected revenues, but also to reduce imports, which cover the 2/3 of our annual wood needs as a country. Here we must note that cooperatives hire a piece of forest from the state or private authorities, which are exploited according to the suggestions of the local forest office, while from these exploitation activities, 10% of the income ends in the state funds and 5% in the respective municipalities. The new regulations aim to help create organised and competitive cooperatives, ensure income for foresters and drastically improve the sector of forest management and exploitation. For this reason, forest cooperatives were excluded from Law 4015/2011 on agricultural cooperatives. In addition, they are special-purpose cooperatives working on public forest land and are mainly active in forest exploitation, such as logging, the formation of primary forest products or the displacement of these products within forests. Because of this specific objective, the relevant framework had to be established and not function voidly on the basis of agricultural co-operatives legislation, as was the case up until now. The possibility is now envisaged for forest cooperatives, as defined in Article 1, such as the movement, processing and processing of primary forest products, while the number of members required for the establishment and operation of forest cooperatives is increasing to twenty one (21) natural persons from seven (7), in the capacity of the forester to claim and be a condition for obtaining and maintaining the status of members of the cooperative. As far as the forest cooperatives are concerned, within one year, they will have to delete those members who are not foresters and complement members on the basis of the new framework, and there is provision for Article 6 to ensure that CSCE members and their spouses cannot be wood merchants and therefore there is no apparent conflict of interest between the cooperatives and the professional activity of their members. The status of the forester shall be demonstrated for those already employed in forestry operations by the IKA and shall be confirmed by the Committee set up by the Forest Directorate concerned. For new entrants in the profession are acquired after theoretical and practical education and is confirmed by the Committee itself by the issuing of identity in the name of the forester, which is very important as the absence of specific conditions - only the professional foresters - resulted in many hiding wood merchants with virtual contractors in their capacity to claim a greater share of the forest clusters to be exploited and in the end, real forest workers staying without income. The state supervision of forest cooperatives is also organized by establishing the forest management of the county as their supervising authority. In the process of entrusting forest work to cooperatives by the supervising authority, a register of forest cooperative organisations and foresters shall be established, which shall be centrally maintained in electronic form in the Directorate-General for Forest Development and Forest Protection and the Ministry's Rural Environment and locally at the relevant Forest Directorate of the Prefecture. It makes it compulsory to adopt the rules of procedure for each forestry cooperative, regulating relations between members and cooperatives, obligations and rights of members. The disposal of the products produced by Presidential Decree No 126/1986 by invitation to tender is compulsory, excluding the direct agreement with the trader. Transparency shall be strengthened through the participation of judicial representatives in forest archiving. The protection of the forest is better guaranteed by the proper execution of the work by trained and certified forest workers and a number of other provisions. However, I would like to stress something else about the need for forest cooperatives, with regard to the great problem of forest fires that we are facing during the summer season. So, with great satisfaction, we see the Ministry's intention to activate and cast fire prevention on forest cooperatives, as well as the restoration of destroyed forest land, as the remains of the burned trees are expected to be given to forest cooperatives in order to build dams and other infrastructure to prevent flooding in winter. Ladies and gentlemen, cooperatives have a lot to offer, not only for their members, but for society as a whole. At the same time, the local economy can be strengthened by employment in work of forest interest. Since forest cooperatives are the only ones specialised in forestry work, many can be regulated for forest benefit, but also for actual active foresters through the proposed institutional framework. We support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u135	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for the brief. We're closing with Mr. Ioannis Saridis, from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek forests occupy 50% of the country and could yield two units of GDP for the Greek economy. That's not a wish. It's a fact. How much would the Greeks not be deprived of if we really exploited our forests? I hope that, in the light of the debate on this bill, most Greeks have been informed. When we look for equivalents everywhere so that we do not cut wages and pensions and eventually we do not find it, it is good to remember that an equivalent is hidden in the Greek forests: two whole units of GDP, without destroying them. On the contrary, if we are not interested in these, we will soon lose them and lose them, unfortunately, definitively. The forest has the need for human care. Nothing goes missing from what a forest produces. So this wealth is in our hands. The beginning of the simultaneous rescue of both forests and our economy is here today. And this effort is clearly in Greek hands. Sadly, addressing our natural wealth so far was demoralizing. Anyone who has carefully studied the regime that existed so far and had created the previous forest law, which has led, among other things, to the complete depreciation of the country's forest cooperatives, will understand that the immunity and anarchy that prevailed constituted the greatest risk to our forests. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the result of a statement made by the Minister for Tobacco Work for many years in the public service, and it is a sincere attempt to end a disgraceful situation of human exploitation, the violation of labour rights, the abduction of our natural wealth which has been an obstacle to the development of not only the Greek economy, but also the survival of the Greek village. The political world must recognise its mistakes, the mistakes made and overcome the temptation to address forest cooperatives. To date all forest cooperatives have produced correctly, as they have been damaged in recent decades, have been votes. We all know in this Chamber that Greek foresters were treated exclusively as party customers. With today's bill, there is a breakthrough that imposes the necessary changes so that this situation can be stopped. We see the intersection in three main points: Firstly, the increase in compulsory members from seven to twenty-one. At this point I would like to make a comment saying that twenty-one did not come out at random. There has been a debate to succeed in reaching the right figure and, of course, specific forecasts were needed for our islands. The action will show. But we also believe that twenty-one is certainly correcting the chaos that prevailed to this day. Second incision is the definition of the miner. We agreed that those who have a hundred and fifty-one job signal in the woods over the last three years could be termed "foresters". We are very concerned about the process of training young miners. We have said so, we have told the committees again, but we have not been worried about you at all. I'm afraid that's where we'll come back. I do not think we have a definitive closure of this issue. For the time being, however, it is enough that a separating line is in place for who is and who is not a forester. The third aspect of this draft law is the provisions within that bill on how forest cooperatives operate. Many have considered the inappropriate integration of the statutory obligations of forest cooperatives within the bill. In addition to these changes, we are thus helping the people themselves who will choose to make use of this law, so that it is more difficult to deceive people who do not understand why a timber dealer cannot be a member of forest cooperatives or people who do not understand why there are special restrictions on the members of forest cooperatives, which are also extended to their family. Family rule has led to immunity. It was allowed by the clientele, a party system. This has to stop. That is why we believe that today's bill is absolutely in the right direction. It puts a lot of obstacles on old forest practices. Ladies and gentlemen, our forests are at risk and must be saved. The first step is the introduction of this law. The second step is its implementation. In order not to keep the contents of this draft law blessed, there will be a lot of effort and, of course, a strong political will. They must not find shelter in any political office, those who have been proved to date have destroyed our forests, with the tolerance of the law, by simply giving votes. Our forests have the potential to support our economy to such an extent that we can reduce taxation and abolish a series of carpets. It is our national responsibility to support this effort for the better. That is what should be done in order to make it possible to work with the local communities. We must properly inform the inhabitants of our paradoxical villages about the changes that this law brings. We must not allow it to be lost to the fuss of days, within the baboon of an artificial confrontation that some are setting up either to cover their shortcomings or to promote micro-party interests. Let us say a few words about the amendments. We had informed the Minister in the committees of not accepting amendments irrelevant to this important bill, so that we do not have to vote 'at present', and in fact we agree with most of it. The practice of incorporating unrelated amendments at the last minute into critical bills prevented us from supporting them. Although we are finally called upon to put ourselves in six amendments, we do not hide that these are the reasons why we should not vote in favour. This differentiation is clearly due to the Minister's effort, who managed not to surprise the parties of counterpopulation by 'night-to-night amendments'. Today's amendments solve some problems and certainly do not create any new ones. The re-establishment of the framework governing the insolvency administrator in Amendment 667 Article 51 proved to be useful. With Amendment No 672, Article 53, we are also correctly in line with European law on the protection and management of our country's water resources. There is also a debate on this in the committee responsible. On Amendment No 679, Rule 55, I have to say that the need for clarity regarding gas production and sales processes was great and this amendment - a dictionary, if I may, was much anticipated. With regard to Amendment No 678, Rule 54, where it is essentially part of the process of privatisation of IPTO, it would be appropriate to have a separate bill and discuss it with one another. In this article 54 the Centro Association will vote'residences'. In Articles 52 and 56, referring to the issues of the appointment of graduates of the National School of Judiciary Officers and for transhipment stations, our Parliamentary Representative, Mr George Carras, will be placed. We must ensure that all Greeks learn that there is equivalent in our forests, which are in our hands and do not need the approval of anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u137	Good, ladies and gentlemen. We arrived sooner than I had planned at the end of the special and general debates. Mr Minister, do you now want the floor or do you want the first four colleagues who are interchangeable from the four parties and then you? Parliamentary representatives will then begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I will speak immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u139	The first of the Members of Parliament has been asked by Mr Brutsi to speak. So we start with Mr. Ioannis Siphakis from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Sifakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the need to change the law of 2000, which has been termed 'foragen' by many, is considered absolutely essential to everyone. Instead of resolving, it proved in practice that it created significant problems both in the management of forest ecosystems and in the economy of foresters. It allowed forest cooperatives to be fragmented and to participate in those who were not foresters, reside in large cities and registered members only to fill in the number of seven. It also allowed traders of timber or their spouses to be members of forest cooperatives, resulting in strong market pressure in the interests of traders and to the detriment of foresters. The result was the deterioration in the sustainable management of forests and the quality of primary products produced. The law that we are debating today is dealing with these problems, but also with many others that have actually been presented in practice over the past few years. It preserves the profession of a forester, promotes strong forest cooperatives with only foresters and also enables foresters to do many other complementary forestry work by improving their income. It is a piece of legislation which has the positive opinion of the bodies called upon and submitted their views to the committee, as well as the vast majority of the parties. An important issue that does not solve this - and indeed the Minister has assured us that it will be solved by a ministerial decision - is the definition of a number of forestry marks over the last three years or the uninterrupted exercise of the trade of the forest worker, for example in the last decade, as an additional criterion for obtaining and maintaining the quality of the forester. This regulation becomes necessary as in the last five, six years of the crisis there has been exponentially increasing the number of people involved in the forest, due to the fact that many workers in other sectors of the economy who - because of the crisis and the significant decline in their activity - did not have a substantial job to do in the mountains. This large and steep increase in the number of people involved in forestry work, along with the fact that the possibilities for logging through management studies of the forests concerned did not increase, greatly reduced the share of each of the forest workers. As a result, there has been work for only a few days of the year, a significant reduction in revenues and very little sign for everyone. Most people, in order to have a booklet on health and safety, actually buy brands, limiting the number of them on the basis of certain criteria, so that another generation of uninsured citizens is not created. Characteristics in my area, Pella, the forests of four hundred who were before the crisis increased to a thousand percent in five years, resulting in a portion of about thirty peasants - and thus thirty seals - while in the past the portion was around ninety peasants. This creates the right ground for the development of illegal logging and destruction of our forest wealth, together with the minimum capacity for forests to effectively control this criminal phenomenon, due to a lack of means and personnel. At the same time, they must be given additional work for forests, which is provided for in this bill - crops in degraded forests, reafforestations, branches near the medium-voltage networks - which will create the possibility of increasing the income of foresters and increasing the number of seals to ensure their safety. The training of tutors is good, where possible, by existing training bodies in the region - for example, IEC - by ensuring more qualitative and more systematic education and monitoring of its results. By the way, I would like to remind you that there can be no rational management of forest wealth unless there are any management studies for a decade. It is difficult to find this in recent years and it is the state's duty to find ways to ensure that this possibility can be ensured. The essential strengthening of the forests in an inspiring capacity and in means is a prerequisite for the Office itself to be able to carry out the management studies and to be able to control and protect the public interest and the environment from the systematic smuggling that has unfortunately taken uncontrolled proportions. We inherited it. We must, however, see how we deal with this with determination. In conclusion, the draft law under discussion is a positive piece of legislation, the result of a serious involvement of the Ministry's political and service actors in conjunction with a serious consultation of the stakeholders, which has been taken into account, which will contribute to the sustainable management of forests and to the improvement of the quality of the primary products produced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Maria Antony has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from what I see the bill is of no special interest, although it relates to 50% of the Greek land, of Greece. Only eleven colleagues from all parties. So what are we talking about in plenary? The Ministry of Environment and Energy's bill on forest cooperative organisations. It is essentially a technical bill, which was drafted, as the Minister said, as the rapporteurs said, by the Ministry's Services and was submitted in 2014. It is a bill that modernises and complements the institutional framework under which forest cooperatives operate in our country. Before I refer to the bill as such, what I would like to stress as a forestist is the enormous importance of forest cooperatives, which can be a very important tool both for the sustainable development of forests and for their protection, but above all for the seasons we are experiencing, the crisis, to offer mountain employment and an additional income. So this bill gives some solutions and complements legislative gaps, as forest cooperatives, as we have heard, have so far been operating under agricultural cooperatives legislation, which of course did not take into account the specificities of forest cooperatives. Of course there are positive arrangements, such as the possibility for forest cooperatives to engage in more activities, for example, the marketing, marketing, processing of primary products, but also the introduction of specific conditions and certifications, to become a member of a forest cooperative, so that people who do not work in the woods do not work in the woods. However - although the Minister is not here, I hope his colleagues will carry them - the bill has points that do not really fall. As we have said to the committee and our rapporteur in Article 3, yes, if the number of seven members is in line with the modernisation of the CSCE, but of course the number of twenty-five more problems would be solved rather than solved. I am pleased that, after pressure from us, Minister, you have reduced it to twenty-one, the legislative improvements you have put forward today. Clearly an important issue is Article 5, which refers to CSCE members, their rights and obligations, namely. There is one question, Minister, in paragraph 1 as regards the CSCE region, in which you say that 'the CSCE region is defined by the CSCE statute'. So, in the statutes, can a CSCE have a periphery of all western Macedonia or all of Greece? So are we trying to end this with the small cooperatives and create huge central organizations? You also do not mention anywhere the maximum number of members. How far can the cooperatives reach? I think there's a gap there. We'll have to see. We are going to the legislative improvement that you have brought today, which relates to paragraph 1 of Article 6, which adds the phrase 'first-degree congenitals', which is contrary to the opinion of the Scientific Committee of Parliament and I do not know what it is intended to do. So, a parent who is a logger whose child may be married or may have children can't be a member of the CSCE, be a miner? Every family doesn't have the right to choose? Why do you deprive him of it? What purposes do you serve? In particular, when the kinship of the first degree was in consultation, you removed it, according to the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, and restored it by legislative improvement. And how much more when the wood produced will be auctioned. Another important point relates to Article 136A, which states that each DASSO is granted ‘a group excluded from that concession’. I mean, a good beam, mild embossed, a lot of wood, with good wood, will go to a cooperative. While a cluster that has a strange relief, difficult, that will not be able to remove the reception of this region - this is provided for by the management study, as colleagues know - will be given to another. Is that fair from sharing half the good of a cooperative and half the bad of the other? You probably don't know them well, Minister, or they didn't carry you well. So you need to rethink this point, because we cannot accept it. As you know, forests are managed mainly by forests in three ways: n.e.c. Article 134 of Decree-Law No. 126/1986, Article 134 of the 1969 Decree-Law, as well as the State exploitation of forests. However, the most important thing, to manage, ladies and gentlemen, forests and actually implement this bill, is to have staff in the forest directorates and, above all, in the forest offices. I'll let you know, if you don't know, that there's a forest address with a forester, a forest-free forester. So what is the point in this bill, since there is no scientific staff to implement the management of the forests he has in his power? And the second important thing is that there are no public forest management studies in many forest complexes in the country. What are you doing, Minister? Moreover, with statistics, as our rapporteur has said, the total production of wood through forest cooperatives in the public sector amounts to about seven hundred cubic metres, whereas from non-public, private, Community, it amounts to three hundred and eighty thousand. So more than half of the production of total production comes from non-public forests. A large part concerns public and municipal forest management studies, which remain unexploited, because there are no management studies for these forests. For example, in my region, in Grammos, the Municipality of Nestorio, which has many municipal and Community forests, is struggling to manage these forests, all without management studies, which consist of renewing forests, meeting the individual needs of residents, protecting them, but the municipality does not have the resources to do the management studies. What are you doing for all this, Minister? With the forest maps, what are you doing? What do you do with the Forestry? Nothing. You're more than 20 months old, Minister. So today we are discussing the modernisation of the CASO, which, as we are about to do, will not make sense for this bill, since there are no forest management studies and staff to implement them. Zero to the clay. You are starting backwards, Mr Minister, without an objective and no vision for the forests of our country, as you do on all issues. Sadly, you once again prove that you cannot handle the obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u143	Where's the Minister, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u144	Let's not blame him. He's been alone since the morning. I appreciate that he went where each one of us takes himself. I didn't want to interrupt Mrs. Antonio in the middle of her speech. We'll wait a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u145	I just asked if someone's coming back from the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, will we not speak after the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u147	Yes, Mr Kukutsis, Mr Kegeroglu, Mr. Minister, Mr. Brutsi, and then a fellow Member and a parliamentary representative alternated. Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. According to a census - lately, indeed - there are densely exploitable forests in our country. Living in southern Greece, we do not have the density of forests in northern Greece and central Greece. It's more coniferous. However, we do not have the cooperatives in northern Greece. Of course, we have the fires that destroy the forests. Northern Greece, and especially the border, have the evil of Albanian mafia and poaching. According to the census, densely exploited forests in our country cover 25% of the land, the bushes and the sparse forests cover another 25%, the pastures, the mountain meadows and the grasslands, covering around 20%, the cities and the villages around 10% and the agricultural land around 20%. There is, therefore, in a way - or there was until now - a balance in the various uses of the earth, but in recent years it has tended to be overturned. Forests close to agricultural crops or to residential and tourist development areas are therefore increasingly at risk of becoming lands, hotels and settlements. To take account of the pressure exerted by livestock farming, even limited livestock farming in our country today, we understand what is happening. The Greek forests consist mainly of coniferous forests, and secondly of the Mediterranean makia vegetation with porks, beans, kisses and other bushes. We keep saying the wood is produced. How much is the timber produced in our country? Of course, useful wood is produced for building, boxes, furniture and other uses, firewood, retsini - from which the roe comes, neft and other products - honey, planting, wood carbon. So we understand the usefulness of the timber. Therefore, with proper and planned exploitation and management, forests can keep giving us their products, without being destroyed, and thus give thousands of people a job. I said that such management is mainly done in northern Greece. On the other hand, what has not yet been done is the publication of forest maps in every county, as well as the clearing of the property status of each forest, so that the Forest can finally be completed in that country. I think there are also other forests in northern Greece - not only in Messinia - there are also in Chios and everywhere. The exploitation of public forests must take precedence over any attempt to improve the institutional framework for the operation of forest cooperatives. The creation of robust, organised and competitive cooperatives ensures income for foresters and the active improvement in the management sector can be achieved by management plans and by meeting much wider conditions of efficient operation of state-owned forests in the country. It is a process in which, above all, forest wealth must be exploited while protecting the forest ecosystem. The financing of forest labour and the income of forest workers - and the bill has some positive elements - and the operation of productive economic units in our forests and, of course, the monitoring of the impact of human activities. Cooperatives today, in particular, are working and marketing cooperatives. Forest cooperatives have been substantially transformed into timber merchants, but the international environment is not favourable. The operation of efficient state forest holdings with a structure of productive units is also necessary to manage forests in such a way that we produce forest products capable of meeting international competition. There is, of course, an unorthodox exploitation of forests over the last few decades on production issues, but we also need to consider whether forest cooperatives today... [[Noise in the Chamber]] The New Democracy, the PASOK and everyone... I think it's unethical... Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, too. We move on to the fourth speaker and then the Minister will take the floor. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. In any case, I am going to talk about the amendment we have tabled. A topical question was raised this morning on the subject of the ELGA, compensation, assessments and travel expenses of workers. I have asked the Minister for Rural Development to be present in the process of discussing the draft law, which, in consultation with the relevant Minister, is to accept the amendment we have tabled in order to solve the problem, which has been caused since the beginning of the year and has led to the depreciation of the best insurance body - as is the case since the 2011 reform - of the ELGA. What's happened? The ELGA operates on the basis of assessments of the geoponics, veterinary surgeons, workers. On the basis of a regulation, the number of estimates could have been large - and today it is great - but the way in which the government chose to introduce compensation has created more problems than it has solved. In particular, it is more costly to introduce the new system, with car rental, using buses, taxis and other means, in order to reach the field to which it has to make the assessment. This most costly system has led to the accumulation of uncontrolled cases. At the same time as we are talking, seventy thousand producers' injury statements are on the air, they have not been checked. And this, when two, three, four months pass, is detrimental to both the ELGA and the farmers themselves. It is also detrimental to the ELGA, because it cannot be estimated objectively for farmers who are late - those who are entitled to - to receive any compensation in order to cultivate the next period. Now we have this paradox: the administration of the ELGA has come in agreement with the workers, they have reached an amendment, an amendment which we have adopted, and I think all parties accept it, because there has been a meeting today with the workers from all parties, we have tabled it, this afternoon there will also be a meeting with the New Democracy and with SYRIZA - these two workers' meetings are pending. It is acceptable for everyone to have this regulation, and yet the Minister, Mr Apostle, does not have the political will to come here to accept this amendment and to resolve an issue which is huge, is not simple, because it has effects of chains that accumulate other problems for both ELGA and farmers. Why am I saying that? I say this because this practice is followed in other areas. Workers with management after negotiations and months' consultation have resulted in the collective agreement. They have signed the collective agreement, on the one hand the administration of ELGA and on the other hand the workers. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance have approved it and the Minister, Mr. Apostolos, has not signed it since April in the ratification of the agreed collective agreement. This is an additional sample of the lack of initiative but also of inertia and breach of duty not in the legal sense, but in the sense that it does not fulfil the obligations of a particular Minister. I asked him to come here to resolve this matter by consultation, and so on, as I have done five more times that we have tabled the same amendment as Democratic Incorporation. Now for farmers themselves, the second issue concerning the need for regulation is that of compensation for damages under the ELGA regulation. I have brought, for example, the olive-growing and wine-growing sector in Crete, invoking the findings of committees or anything else, that 'you know these should go to the PSEs and the PSEs we need to see 30%', etc. And "the lentil of oil has eaten", which our people say. Look. Yesterday, an amendment to the ELGA regulation was tabled to cover damage caused by deer. Most parties voted for it, I don't know if everything was voted on, I'm not sure. The Minister accepted this amendment. I have not understood why it does not make any necessary arrangements, whether for the damages of wild boar or for those ambiguities that it says there are in relation to the flowering and compensation of the fruit for the olive cultivation of Crete. For the olive cultivation, the cultivation and the grapes I will tell you three numbers and close my place. In 2014 we had six and a half thousand tons of table grape from the vineyards of Crete. That year damages were done and indemnified by sixteen and a half thousand tonnes of exports plus damages. In 2015, we had nine and a half thousand tonnes of export. Internal consumption is stable, which is why I only mention exportation. And there were similar damages. This year, exports are only five thousand tonnes so far. A few days left, but it will be minimal the quantity that will be exported. It is five thousand, i.e. 1/4 of other years, and there is no procedure to compensate these people for 1/3 since 2014 and below production. The rest of the damage could not, of course, be the subject of either export or trade. With these examples and setting out the subject, I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development to come to the debate on the bill, which he is signing, and to come to find a solution to the big issue that concerns the movements of the appreciators of the ELGA and, of course, to the issues that have to do with the inclusion into the regulation of disputed losses, depending on the cause of which they come, and in any case to give an administrative solution to the issues that he is tampering with, in the absence of political initiatives. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u153	Here you go, Mrs Manolaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, there are ministerial amendments concerning other ministries. The ministers must come here to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u155	They've all been incorporated into the bill. They went to committee. There is no amendment here today. They are all embedded, Mrs Manolakou, in the bill because they were approved in committee. That is why we are going a little fast today, and that shows what the proper parliamentary practice is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u156	It's not about theirs, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u157	The seven that exist are parliamentary. He told the Minister who he's accepting. The others don't. There aren't any. Whatever it was, it should have been in committee. Mr Ioannis Tsironis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with the amendments because some things have been heard by Mrs Antoniou. I have committed myself that I will not accept any amendment which has not reached the committees unless it is urgent, which concerns our country as a whole and there is a broad consensus, and it must be resolved and it is something extraordinary. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In fact, several parliamentary amendments have been tabled. I agree with many of them and would sign them. But, as I said before, we agreed on all parties not to abuse legislative practice again. In this sense, obviously the amendment to which Mr Kegeroglu refers was one of those that was not at the moment to include it. Next week we have legislative work again. We should finish them. I should also like to say that the only one I have accepted is the amendment with a general number of 673 and a special 62, which concerns the waste transhipment stations, which we have explained to the committees. I therefore think that this House has not been surprised. This bill breaks - we appreciate - a multi-annual vicious circle. I have also explained to the committees that this vicious circle that began for historical reasons immediately after the Civil War, the political practice of the state at that time, to bring people to the centre, to deal with mountainous populations with very great phobia, with great fear of our mountains and forests, has gradually led them to either abandonment or internal migration, with the result of policing. So a vicious circle was created. The vicious circle in which, to the extent that I don't have a population, in this place I don't make public investment, I don't make adequate roads, I don't have enough schools, I don't have sufficient health coverage. In turn, the citizens who wanted to stay were forced, especially for children, for educational reasons, to leave and go down to the city, to change their profession and practical pastures to “lost”, that is to say, to fill with trees where there were no, even rural areas, and even tours. Where the climbs were, in our mountainous, cultivated lands, they were lost and so man ceased to live harmoniously with nature. Few foresters had left and fortunately, the number is growing. Therefore, with the relevant vicious circle, these professions ceased and these areas were of interest to a state that was largely moving customers. A few votes, a little interesting. This vicious circle must break sometime. This is where I'm going to give a parentheses. We keep talking about financial incentives. Let's understand. It is not the same worker who is currently living in eight hundred meters of altitude with a cooperative in the city. Because this question has also been asked. Of course we must give incentives. Of course, we will motivate and I believe that not only will it not be a burden on the state budget, but on the contrary we will increase it. Because, as we have said, at the moment, the state income - and some speakers have mentioned it - is negligible in forestry work. Greece, as has rightly been said, has almost 0.5% of its area covered by forests. Countries with half the forest coverage have 2% of GDP and I would mention that they are countries not with sustainable forests, such as Greece, with over-periods of sustainable management, but artificial forests, which are planted only to cut off after ten to twenty years, controlled and debilitating, to make fuels. Nevertheless, with this management, without mushrooms, without aromatic plants, without furniture wood, which, unfortunately, is not certified in Greece, we come and say we can make forestry policy. So here we had to break, first of all, this vicious economic cycle and, secondly, the hostage of the foresters. Because, as far as the bill is concerned, it is not the question of playing the courgetry, if a partnership with seven, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty people is viable. Wherever we put the number, someone would say 'why not one less?' If we put it in 15, he'd tell us there's fourteen somewhere. That's not the point. We know that where forest policy works, forest workers are hundreds. So there's no question of whether they should be twenty or twenty. This is a number, which from experience we will see will change and grow. Here's the question why we put this number. We put it because there is no cooperative conscience in Greece. The cooperatives have been discredited by dreadful politics, state intervention for decades and it is really ironic that those who have produced this intervention, especially after the 1980s, are now coming and becoming honorers and saying that there is no cooperative conscience in Greece for farmers, foresters and others. Yes, there is no cooperative conscience, and yes, when we put it into the seven, it turned out that a merchant went in, found another six old people and actually took advantage of it, because he had the money, while another partnership with the seven people couldn't pay these minimum obligations, to get the beam, and, if he didn't pay them, he went on and borrowed from the dealer, so the hostage continues and the vicious circle continues. They're things that are familiar. I will now turn to what several speakers have referred to on the forest maps. It is indeed a matter of great concern to the forest maps. It is obviously a precedent for all the other forestry policy. And of course it was a vision of both the Green Ecole and all the progressive force in Greece, that it is not meant to be a country without forest maps. I am not going to mention the past and why there was no political will to have forest maps which were too slow and really with intervention mainly from the European Union, as a result of the creation of forest maps. The answer would be simple, of course, that the definition of forest would obviously exclude from an extensive customer system what is forest and what is not forest and what has been imprisoned and what has not been imprisoned for decades. I mention features, because this has been mentioned here - and unfortunately I do not know whether it should be crying or laughing - that the legislative framework was in place and that it was 50% of the country that was ready and we 'bad' SYRIZA - ANEL - the Green Folketing have stopped it. Let me remind you that with Law 3889/2010 - it was the only law thanks to which some maps were made - sixty-eight capital cities were posted and ratified by these posts 1% of the territory, not 50%. This law, unfortunately, while having some positive votes, has been abolished by Law 4164/2013 and since then no single map has been posted. I explained to the committees why. A single map could not be posted because this procedure was commissioned to the CRP, which has no offices in the rest of Greece. No one was posted, not because SYRIZA stopped posting. No one was posted because no one could post. And to explain to you those who say all this because the maps were not posted at all. In other words, the project has been zeroed and we have now reached our own legislation on 22 May 2016, recently that within three months we have only been ready to post 20% of the territory and we would have much more, but unfortunately some maps, which are already considered by 2002 - hold the number - have never been posted. Not even under the 2010 Act were posted. Of course, they cannot be posted immediately at the moment, because since 2002, 2003, 2004, many have obviously changed, administrative declassifications have been made and these have to be incorporated. That's a big tumor. This race is given by forest services for maps that were before 2010, so that at least some of them - who have few interventions - can be posted. So to wonder why we had to change the legislative framework when the previous one had zeroed the posting of maps - not for our days, but since the law was passed - I really think it is very strange! I cannot resist the temptation to refer to a number of remarks from the speaker of the Democratic Integration, who I have heard in the committees. 'Bull copying of old legislation' - which mentioned them - 'Anachronistic plan','regression in terms of freedom, unconstitutionality'. I'm telling you, these are very heavy charges. Honestly vote against - thanks you will make us - when almost all parties here spoke even about improvement. It is thanks that you will make us vote against it. Why aren't you honest? Is it or isn't it a good bill? Is it or is it not a bill, as the overwhelming majority of the House said? If it is useful and if it is covered by the previous legislative framework, do not vote and then go out to society, to workers, and explain why you did not vote for it. What you're saying here, we can hear it on the channels. Go out and tell them themselves. Other vulnerabilities have been heard, that Law 2810/2000 exists. I know it's gone. That's what my legal services told me. Law 1627/1939 does not concern factories. It's about the forestry cooperatives, the forest owners. Where does it fit? I'm curious. I am sorry, then, for this attitude. The situation in our country today, the phenomena we face, the collapse of values, the collapse of the economy, and we all know that it is not a nourishment of the last two years. So you have two choices as a party that you have ruled for more than thirty years. You've been ruling since 1980, with some breaks. Either you do self-criticism - it is laxative and leads the country forward - or, if you do not have the bravery to do self-criticism, at least silence. Mr. Mitsotakis, for example, follows the communication practice of not talking so much about the past and makes sure he talks about the future or the present. It's a reasonable communication practice. But bragging about your past and gloating it really matches you with all the pitifulness with which the world has enchanted you. If you consider this a good parliamentary practice, continue to boast about forest desolating, to boast that the villages of the three thousand inhabitants, with the beautiful stone schools, have stayed with eighty old people, to boast about your past. Keep bragging, you're doing us a favor. I will comment a little on the position of my colleague from the Communist Party of Greece. There is one issue that is crucial and respectable. Whether you believe that the Left cannot govern in conditions of capitalism - this view is respected - not even in a mixed economy, as you say in your 19th conference, or not. Because if you believe it, I do not understand why you are pressing our government or any other government, saying that they are becoming wind turbines in the forests. I agree with you. It's a crime to be wind turbines on top of the ridges. They don't have to be wind turbines on top of the ridges. Nor in Switzerland - which is a mountainous country - are wind turbines on top. They've found another way. I've talked to the people there. They have wonderful alternatives. So do we agree that there are things that now, today, need to be resolved in these economic conditions? Do we agree that the workers, the proletariat, today must have a decent living in conditions of existing capitalism? Fight for it? Are we fighting all right? Are you telling us today's bill merchandises forests because it gives forest workers the right to process? In other words, if they did not have the right, they would have to save and well sell the wood to a dealer to make the processing of another capitalist. We protect them from what? From eroding and becoming capitalists? Is this your understanding of cooperatives? I'm sorry. For me cooperatives, because they just do not accumulate capital, are a huge intersection, they are a new economy, a third pillar of the economy, and I do not understand your criticism in this area. I should also like to mention why we insist on regulatory provisions. It has been mentioned by several speakers, and I think we should respond to that. I told the committees too. The rules of the Constitution neither violate nor enter into the internal system of the cooperative. There are regulations on public limited liability companies in the law on public limited liability companies, there are also the EU. And for the whole association. Understand something. This self-regulation, that the partners have the ability to regulate their homes, cannot be heard in this Chamber. I honestly cannot understand why a man who goes into a cooperative business, which has a commercial object, in which interests are played, will not fall victim to some of the experts, as was the case with partnerships in the past, which in their statute had a majority system, resulting - in ignorance of the rest - in those moments that 30% or 20% of the cooperatives controlled the entire administration - because others were more diffuse - either because they had a party or for other reasons, but mainly for parties. A majority drama! It's such a simple arrangement and you come and tell us: 'Okay, guys, if they agree, what's wrong?' It's okay with an E.R.A. Or an S.E.A. It would also be a good thing if the system were to be a majority and a relatively large majority would be able to control an undertaking completely. How do we do it now? It does not matter and it is paralysing, and the state is well placed and it forbids these things. Don't cut glaukas in Athens all of a sudden! I should like to go on with Mr Mitarakis' comments, which are largely interesting and some of them require an answer. We've studied the number twenty-one. The number twenty-one is satisfied that it does not affect any cooperative on the islands. Those islands that are currently active, wonderfully can operate with the number twenty one, and that is why we considered it to be a good number and we do not need to make two speed cooperatives. The same is true of the neighbouring towns of Epirus, where the number is sufficient. If you look at the studies, you will see that there is no problem and I think the matter will be resolved in the next two years, because there is a limit. We do not say tomorrow morning twenty-one, but we put a horizon of two plus one, which is sufficient. Besides, all the speakers admitted that the world is now turning to the forests. Forestry education. It's an important thing to do with education. I said that to the committee. I'm reassuring. This is where the flexibility of the ministerial decision is needed. We don't have to put everything in the law, because education changes. Today we have middle schools, such as the historic school in Agia Thessaly, which is currently being held by the school. Education is something alive, it goes on, we may have other developments in this area tomorrow. So let us see how these people are to be trained and I was pleased to see Mr Amyras' recommendation that other bodies can help. I want to make a clarification for Article 48(5). We're not saying that a co-operative will enter competition into another in a forest. Two cooperatives can't enter a group. Finally, I have to comment on the Greek, although yesterday I spoke in detail. We embrace why the contract was not signed, while it was from 2014. We wanted to change this contract and change it as much as we could. This contract was not good for us. The question why it was not ratified by Parliament in 2014 until we took over the government, which we disagreed with the convention, I think it concerns our predecessors, is not about us. I will finish with Mrs. Antoniou and Mr. Amyras, saying two words. Mrs. Antonio, there's no good and bad beam. It is not possible through the legislative framework, if you want us not to become so entrepreneur from the law and so much state-run, to impose on the local society what kind of system one cooperative claims and what the other cannot, of course, interfere in the territory of a cooperative organisation. If a cooperative organisation can operate in a larger space, it must do so. I do not understand how we will come to limit it, say, "Look at you, you will operate from here to there". Is that the criticism? On the one hand we say that we are intervening and now you tell us to intervene in commercial activity, in their business? I don't think that's wise. Even throughout Greece, why not? I conclude with Mr Amyras' remarks. First of all, blocked forest roads are not just in Ithaca. It's also in Parnitha, where I climb. And in the Hotland the roads are blocked, for security reasons. It doesn't mean they don't get through the fire brigades. They have a way through. If we were to leave the streets open, if there were no bars - and unfortunately bars are not enough many times - we would have extensive crime on the mountain and not just poaching or poaching. We'd have smuggling on the mountain. Accesses are very difficult and obviously there must be a check on who gets in and who goes out on the forest roads. Let's not add asphalt. Also, about the Fire Service and whether the citizen gets inside the game. We seek it to get the citizen into the game and you know that I am in favour of volunteering. But it's not simple in a body of uniforms, hierarchical, to get a citizen in. It is something that we are investigating, how the citizen, the volunteer, as is done in other countries, can have a degree, have common fitness, have common gymnasiums, so that at a time when there is a need for this citizen to join the House in the firefighting and even regular firefighting, he can join this special court. But it's not simple to do it, and it's something we're exploring. I'll close with a phrase. I'm glad the bill has received such a positive response. I am pleased that when we look at social groups in the eyes - and here they are very sensitive populations - at least there is no micro-participation from the majority of those present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much to the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a clarification before we continue. We will give the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, and then we will go alternately: a Parliamentary representative will speak, and then a Member will speak. In other words, immediately after Mr Brutsis, Mr Simorellis will speak and then Mr Simorellis the next parliamentary representative, based on the power of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the consensual climate in this House today for this forest bill does not reflect the political climate or the social climate that exists in general. I say this because we are now all witnesses and you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are aware of the social anger and the social anger that exists against your practices and political actions. I think you're all feeling it in your skin and that's not unfair. The latest events, which concern the screening of licences for channels, the corruption issues, which concern Mr Kalogrisa, but also the curious silence, the deafening silence of justice creates reasonable questions and the government, instead of responding to these central issues, is silent and trying to avoid its enormous political responsibilities. I don't know where you're going and how far you'll get. What I know is that society has put you on the sidelines. You live, you understand, you understand, and the polls, which show unprecedented figures for a party that governs and has won the elections near a year. Such a political overthrow has never occurred in the historic past of the country's political life. Minister, I would recommend something to you too. It does not concern our resignation, and I do not know whether anyone will speak on behalf of the Democratic Incorporation, but I think it is politically arrogant the way you refer to Parliament, when you say 'if you like, do not vote'. The Minister's job is to try to contribute to the greatest possible parliamentary acceptance of his bill. I see an arrogance when you say to a section of the House 'do not vote'. In any case, our rapporteur has put himself in the bill. We agree, we vote on it, but we have the point on Article 54. We will look back to the end, to see if you eventually withdraw it, because it concerns a piece of prerequisites, a crucial issue, which we said should come along with the other bill, and it would be good if Mr Skourletis came to explain. As far as the amendment of the SYRIZA Members is concerned, I will repeat for the most part this: it is a wrong practice. As far as the parliamentary procedure is concerned, of course, it is possible to recommend Members. The Rules of Procedure allow that too. But we have said that in this difficult period we should also have a justification from the General Accounting Office of the State. No one knows - and what I am saying is not only about this amendment, but about what you are doing on a continuous basis, and you are doing so today by accepting the amendment - its financial cost. So, we bring and sign amendments to make good in a section of society, intervening with five or ten signatures of SYRIZA MPs, to make friends, sensitives, without having the documentation of the General Accounting Office? Why didn't you put it in the bill and have the accounting documentation? This is the right thing to know exactly what this signature and acceptance by you for the state budget, for the pocket of each Greek taxpayer. Ladies and gentlemen, today's policy is running. The issues are too much and too serious. I see, among them, a very serious issue, which is under way and which concerns the part and part of social security. Since yesterday and today, he runs the press, the media, the famous topic of breaking the ACAGE pigeon. I consider it unacceptable to take action and practice today at the expense of the next generations of our country. You may not know, gentlemen of the SYRIZA - and it is good to know a few things about the ACAGE - what the ACAGE was, what this pigeon was and how it is linked to the next generations of our country, today's workers, the current unemployed, who show that you are abstaining from them and showing no sign of sensitivity. Just move into the logic of the “sound today”, so that you do not have political costs and everything to dismantle them. I can confirm something else. We, as a previous government, stood and moved to the line of the household, the gathering and built this pigeon, created by New Democracy Law No.3655/2008. It was a coin, which really gave hope and perspective for the next new generations, the pensioners tomorrow, today's workers, this Solidarity Fund through which we created a framework, a fund where we collected savings from a large part of the VAT, 4% of its revenue, and 10% of the revenues of the demilitarisations. We have created a reserve of very important importance, which began to accumulate and truly create a hope for the future of the pension system and for tomorrow's pensioners. So this future along the way, after 2008, was strengthened by two laws: with Law No.3863/2010 and with Law No.3986/2011 by another government, after our own government. Other resources have been added to support this fund. Indeed, it began to strengthen too much, and we kept it as an eye daughter for all these years. Personally, my suggestion later, being a minister to the Samara government, was that this fund should not be bothered for any reason, because it is sacred and loyal to the country's insurance system and an asterisk, a pillar that guarantees for the future, which in the difficult fiscal context would really be a hope, a light in the difficult tunnel. I had the honour in 2013 to introduce Law 4162/2013. Through this law, we strengthened the AAGE with other resources, the future resources that would result from the hydrocarbon deposits, which would be a very important source in the future for the insurance system at the time this revenue would come to the Greek state, when we would finally proceed to these actions. And where did we get today? I must remind you a little historically that in this Chamber, just a year ago, SYRIZA with the law - "shrink", Law No.4325/2015, broke the AAGE's pigeon. On SYRIZA, then, last year the money broke and the process opened for the first time to raise money to cover pension deficits, which had never been done before. We have been very critical of what you are doing, and we have said that what you are doing apart from unacceptable is something that affects the next generations of our country. You didn't have the moral or political right to do that. I'm afraid you did. Last year you raised the first 400 million of the future generations of our country to enhance deficits. What deficits now to discuss? What does that confirm? We did not break the money, we kept it and strengthened it for the young children of our country, the future generations. You, while mocking pensions to an incredible degree unnecessarily and unfairly, as I usually say - because they did not need this, nothing would have happened if the previous government's political course continued - broke a pigeon that shows and confirms that the insurance system of Mr Katrugalos of SYRIZA is unsustainable. Nor is his viability confirmed anywhere despite pension reductions, nor is there any proportionate study and shows what your real political perception of these things is. "Hold all of them. Dissolve what you inherited." That's what your energy shows you break the AAA's pigeon. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, for the people who do not know about it and the media, the break-up of the bill last year enabled the state budget, Mr Tsakalotos, to cover the deficits, to put the state budget revenues of the social budget from the ASEAN and this year 400 million. So, 400 million last year and 400 million this year, is a total of 800 million, but they have no limit, just a budget. That's the least. I submit to the Minutes on page 111 of the 2016 State Budget, as you tabled and voted for it, confirming the revenues of the social budget by 800 million in 2015-2016. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unlike you, we in the budget that we submitted in 2014 for the year 2015 the revenue we had put into the social budget by the AAGE was zero. In other words, that confirms, in practice, the household we had done and respect for the next generations of our country. Move along with the logic of plucking in all areas, taxation, insurance, everywhere. They arise with ruthless questions, Minister. For this action, who gave you the right to moral, political, to break the pigeon of the next generations? Who did you ask to do that and why do you do it? Today, I think, at least so, it has leaked, that the IKA will recommend raising funds through the AGAE to cover deficits, deficits that confirm what I said that the insurance, despite the reductions you made, is in the air. Already the EIB will do the same. The OAU has already done so at his request, which has not seen the light of publicity, but there is a practical record of the OAU's administration. In short, you are accountable, you should apologise to both the workers and the unemployed, but also to the House. You are making an unacceptable energy, and what we recommend to you as a New Democracy is not to take that money, because it is neither yours nor ours nor anyone. They belong to the next generations which, unfortunately, you have forgotten and you are not interested at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Simorellis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Although I was always of the opinion that when a bill comes we should discuss it, it was heard today, but also yesterday, as well as yesterday, and always by first-class officials mainly of PASOK and of the New Democracy, when a bill comes to discuss other things. I'm not that point of view, but this time I'll do it, and I'll comment on it. Yesterday, especially with a style of very heavy prototypes of PASOK and our New Democracy, we were told: "You're ashamed of yourself", "You have no cheek" and more. Today, however, a lot of evidence came before us yesterday. This bank, called "SYRIZA Bank", provided all these loans with their own administrations. We were not told, however, that all of them, both of them, PASOK and New Democracy, had taken close to 15 million and so far they have not given a penny. We can also put in the systemic banks that took loans near 400 million. I'd like to ask: will they give a damn of that? Have they given anything? They're not answering. The New Democracy has, of course, answered us that they have set it, and in two hundred years, they will pay it, and the PASOK will pay for it in six hundred and thirty years. Don't ask me, "When will you give this money?" Shouldn't I say "your shame" too? I don't want to say, "You don't have any gum"? If you don't have any gum, put on a bourga. I also wanted to comment on Mr. Brutsi, who spoke of buttons and resigns us too. I would say this to him: they have managed over the years that have governed the buttons, i.e. the fund reserves, to end them. I'll remind you of the stock exchanges, the PSI. You didn't leave anything. Ladies and gentlemen, our presence here today for the vote on the forest cooperative bill comes to cover an existing deficit in legislation, which concerns cooperative action in an important part of our natural wealth, forest land. The legislation we are proposing clears up the landscape, distinguishing forests from agricultural cooperatives and trying to combine the proper use of forests with the protection of the forest ecosystem. The aim is to increase the participation of the forest economy in GDP and to reconstitute forest co-operation. In other words, we achieve the best organization of cooperative schemes, aiming at sustainable forest management and ensuring the trade of forest workers as a protagonist in this reform. The benefits of mountainous areas will be multiple. The government's intention, but also a lasting demand from the Left, is to promote the cooperative way of development. Cooperatives are a key axis of our strategy for the progressive exit from the crisis and for the development of a new economy of needs. For many years the cooperatives have been in a bad state and very inactive and bankrupt. We have met a huge legal and organisational deficit, which we are trying to cover both the previous bill and the one now. We want to create financially sound enterprises that operate with democracy and are supervised by the state, providing high-quality goods. It is important to stress that a majority of the bodies are positive in the bill, as it will help reduce unemployment and local development. It is also important that these cooperative organisations stay not only in the exploitation of forest resources, but also link them to the processing of these products and their export to larger markets. In addition, we must stress that the bill provides for the training of new entrants in the profession, which is very important for the safety and the proper exploitation of forests. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is linked to all the previous ones in an attempt to restore the Greek economy, which has been demolished in recent years by bad and often scandalous policies. It is not easy in a regime of economic closeness and without the possibility of raising funds to do so quickly. However, it seemed that bills like what we are going through show that the change in pathogens that brought us to the brink of destruction is a matter of political will. The responsibility for the degeneration of cooperatives and the idea of cooperation in the rural area lies equally with PASOK and New Democracy, cultivating customer relations and carrying out zero controls, which, unfortunately, led him to depreciation. We are making a new principle within the pillar of fair growth to overcome the crisis. Our support will be to the Greek people, to the forests and to the world of work, which every day gives the battle for survival to a difficult reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Simorellis. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u164	I do not want to talk much about this bill. Our special speaker, Mr Shahinides, mentioned in detail why Golden Dawn is not going to support this bill as well. Only on the basis of Article 51, which speaks of red loans, which, as we have said a long time ago, will be given to international loan sharks who have come and flooded our country, it makes sense that we are not going to vote on this bill. In the last few days we have witnessed events that have taken place in our homeland and have not been learned or disappeared so as not to hear what is happening on Greek territory. We have seen the reactions of the Greek citizens throughout our country, we have seen those who so far presented to us as 'convergences' - and they were solidaritys among people and they did well to offer a dish of food - to have reacted, to have literally come out of their clothes, to burn their properties, to burn everything. Lesvos is in a panic state right now, and that's what we're trying to do and say that the whole problem is at Golden Dawn and that the Golden Dawn is getting big. The problem of all of you is not that in Lesvos and in many other parts of our country there are signs and monsters. It is not the problem, it is not that these uninvited people have entered the border of our country completely illegally, which you have welcomed, to whom you said "Come on, Greece is open, go in and do what you want" and now you say that you do not know, you do not know and you will see what you will do. That's not the problem. It is not the problem that in Oraiokastro, Philippida and other schools children, illegal immigrants who have entered our homeland, go uninvasively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u165	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u166	And because you see that Greek society reacts to all of this, you have reached another point. Because you see that the Greek society does not agree with what you have done, because it reacts and does not come with your water, you go in cases of criminalisation. They have no right to talk to parents in Oriokastro and Philippida. They have no right to talk to Lesvos residents. We're on top of them with a sword, with anti-racist laws, with whatever there is to terrorize them and tell them that they shouldn't be heard. But this must be heard! And here is the suffocation of the Golden Dawn. Because the only party in the Greek Parliament that resists all of this and talks with the Greek citizens about these issues is Golden Dawn and that is why you have faded our voice into any media. But our voice sounds constantly at all the lengths and backs of our country. It sounds everywhere and the percentages of Golden Dawn grow. But it is not just an election issue and a question of percentages. It is what we will be able to save from this mess in which our country has arrived. You sell everything out with bills that come lightning, which we don't even have time to see in the committees. So it became yesterday about the Greek, so that people do not even understand what is happening, not getting hampari, no reactions or demonstrations, in a society that's far-fetched, as you have done, who are all ready to accept these bones that you're throwing them. That's the process. He's going through a bill and we don't have time to talk, listen to a point of view, say something different. You bring it in the morning, there is an organ hearing, we vote at night, and the next day we go for another. Is that your democracy? That's her! This mess, which prevails. The average Greek citizen has not taken over what is voted on in the panic that is done. So the voice of the ordinary Greek citizen, who does not agree, is the voice of the Golden Dawn. You sold out airports, sold out ports, sold out forests and quays. You are selling everything out in the name of your democracy, as I repeat - there is no democracy. We're selling everything out and anyone who dares to react, they're coming out bad. They must be prosecuted, whether persecuted or said anything about him. You dare and say all these days in any reaction there is Greek citizens who are evil golden. So the way you do it - because that is the truth - yes, anyone who now reacts to his homeland is a golden man and is welcome to the fight that the Golden Dawn is doing against all those who are struggling for our country. The Golden Dawn will continue to fight, therefore, because the roads here are two and we all see it. We see it in Parliament too, and we see it outside Parliament too. On the one hand, there is the path of globalisation, there is the way of open borders, there is the way of the new order of things. On the other hand, there is the way we want to continue to be Greek, Christian Orthodox. The Greek people are ready to choose who they want to be. It's just, it's clear. And not to say words that don't apply and we shouldn't lie in here. So we have reached a point where we can see on the Greek territory - and in our extreme and particularly sensitive areas - that various para-stated 'children' go and burn Greek flags, as is happening in Lesvos, to fly them to the sea or not allow the Greek flag to be suppressed. Where? To our remote islands. And what does the Greek state do? The Greek state sits down and watches all this, as if nothing had happened, as if there were no problems. There is a problem and it is intense, it is huge and in a few years, unfortunately, it will become even more gigantic. They are what we were saying ten and fifteen years ago about the illegal immigrants who would come, about the fact that our homeland would be filled, about the fact that you would give homes to them, about the fact that you would give them food, you would give them shelter, while the Greeks would throw them out. And we talked about it then and some skeptical people were looking at us and saying 'What are you talking about?' There they are! There are in Greek society today! The Greek is thrown out and every illegal immigrant enjoys special privileged treatment. And I should like to ask both the Minister of Public Order and the Government and everyone: tens, hundreds of episodes every day, especially by illegal immigrants. What are the arrests that have been made? What are the penalties imposed? Because if a golden man yells on the street loudly, there's direct criminal prosecution against him. In the case where they burn, they plunder property that they don't even own, which is the Greek people, I see nothing happening. And all parties within the Greek Parliament, but also outside Parliament, are not talking about all of this at all. And it only speaks of the Golden Dawn and will continue - I repeat - to do so, because it will be the voice of the average Greek citizen, who is fighting for his country. So where are the arrests for all this? Some punks went and prevented the Greek Army from subscribing a flag in Lesvos. What were the incubations and arrests of some supposedly solidarity? Where we hear solidarity, we know they're gay. We've changed names. The solidarity has become generosity, because the solidarity is only mutual in matters of illegal immigration. It is not one of these solidaritys to go to the Greek who is afflicted, who has no child to go to school. I didn't see any solidarity from all of them going to see what's going on in our homeland hospitals, where people can't get in there because they don't have to pay the elementary and they're just like dogs. I didn't see any solidarity there. On the other hand, I saw them all being very sensitive and very humanistic to illegal immigrants, who liked and entered our country and doing what they want, burning, plundering. We will also ask the Minister - to hear it and to answer it at some point - if he wants to - if the Greek police have the right to enter these centres of illegal immigrants. Does he have the right to enter and arrest those who do all this? Because we have witnessed - both eyewitnesses and international media - and we know that illegal immigrants centres become signs and monsters, rapes, robberies, felonies. But that's where no one touches. Illegal immigrants are not touched, because it is the 'early cow' you, the 'globalists', who - most of your knowledge and some of you, unwittingly, unwittingly - support it right now. And unfortunately, things are getting harder all the time. And once the Greek people will have to react and will not be able, because at the same time there is a change in the Greek population. They will soon have the right to vote on people who have no place in our country. They're illegal, we're illegal, we're feeding them illegally, we're gonna give them the right to vote illegally, we're putting them in homes illegally. That is the reality that exists today in our homeland. And because the ruling SYRIZA and ANEL are very humanistic, we have not seen them show the same humanism for the eight Turkish officers who came and who, if they are extradited - who will be extradited, we have said so since the beginning - and according to the so-called 'Sultan', Erdogan, will probably be sentenced to the death penalty. Why aren't you sensitive to being humanists? Why didn't you say in the first place that you would send them to the Turks? But you can't say it because Erdogan swings your finger and does what he wants to do to you like loyal dogs running around behind you. We saw the Prime Minister of Greece - God make him! -, Tsipras, be in a meeting with Erdogan, with Turkish flags from behind, with Turkish issues only with Turkey's positions and Greece simply say "yes". Just say 'yes'! So dare react as you should do to Erdogan. Don't you dare? And not just. We see statements by the Minister of Education, the friend. He is a Minister of Education who is an atheist. These are obviously his views, but he cannot in a state which consists of 98% of Christian Orthodoxs coming and accusing the Orthodox Church. This man cannot say that all illegal immigrants, who are incidentally Muslims, have the right to their religion, have the right to what they believe, but the Greeks have no right and there must be unreliable religion, we must be relaxed, we must do anything. No, neither Philis nor any government, because Greece is a state and believes in Orthodoxy. We are Christian Orthodox, whether or not we want it. So we saw that you were afraid of the people in the various schools telling them: “Schools are not yours. What's this? Do you decide whether the children will come to school?" Whose school is it? It's the Greek citizen. Are they yours? Did you build them? Aren't you fighting to support them? What do you want? It is not, therefore, the Greek citizen, it is not the Greek parent who has the right to decide and say that "no, we do not accept the refugees, the illegal immigrants who have filled our country". Why? Because it's a source of danger. Why? Because you've got them thrown out like this. For you, the humanists themselves, the ones you have filled up with our homeland, are not interested in their own health either. You're only interested in the funds, the 15 grand head falling, because the business is good, the NGOs that exist are very good, and you all slow down. So we see these things going on in our homeland. We can see the Kalogerica scandal lately. A private person who took 127, 130 million - says - loan with some grassland, appeared to have a television station. I'm telling you guys where you're fighting, it's supposed to be, the establishment. We see crazy things going on here. And we see, on the other hand, New Democracy and PASOK going out and saying, "But what are these? They are shameful things." Yeah, they're right about Caligree. But let the New Democracy and PASOK tell us something EUR 220. 250 million that they have received, which is stolen money from the Greek citizen, to recapitalise the banks that we have done with our own money, will they ever give them back? They'll never give it back. And they come out and talk to us about the scandals of others? To speak of others' scandals, they must be clean. And they were never clean, they're never clean, and they're never gonna be, because they've learned so. To finish, then, I say: Golden Dawn will continue the struggle, it will continue to shout for our country, it will continue to be the voice of the middle Greek citizen and you will be sure that we will not give you our homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Sevastakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is right to place previously that post-war development, the post-war period has created a conflicting relationship between the city and the countryside, weakened the countryside, weakened the mountain communities, destroyed the productive activity, and this has resulted in the forest becoming a background, simply becoming the background of the homeless, of the city. We have, as far as the forest is concerned, an overall unstable policy of management. On the one hand, an extremely strict regulatory framework and on the other hand fires. On the one hand, a dogmatic management of the forest and on the other hand a violation. So, in this illegitimate situation, in this pathologically positioned behaviour, the bill comes - I think it should be followed by a sequence of legislation - to try to restore, remove this polarity, this twin, this conflict. The working quality that is trying to suggest, the cooperative rationalisation that is trying to suggest, is a part of this restoration, this new concept of forest. The forest has ceased to be productive, so there are no tools to defend it. There is no organised file, i.e. extensive forest maps. There is no demarcated and rationally organised name and designation of the forest area. Messages come to me, for example from Ikaria, where burnt areas are defined as resurrectable, while they were productive areas, were not forests. Wrong reading and categorisation of forest areas by satellite imaging readings. All this states a society which cannot assimilate a good or recognises good. I would point out the same thing about the destruction of traditional shipbuilding, which was a very important part of the productive function of the forest and this harmonious relationship with the producer and user. In these terms, then, I think that the questions and the broad acceptance that I think the bill has from all the wings are being put. I am not emphatic about the way in which one interprets objections, objections, opinions. I think that these are welcome and I believe that they will also give us legislative power so that in future we can organise the relationship and the restoration better. A key, for example, of the restoration of the forest, is the restoration of the mountain community, is the reading of the countryside with quite different conditions than those imposed post-war. It's not the forest over the city. On the basis of these considerations, one can put it against the individual provisions of the bill, such as the possibility for foresters to process, but also on the very concept of processing. Consider that we are making a huge import of furniture, and we also have raw materials and production know-how to use them. But I would like to make a few notes beyond the bill, in which I reflect my position. Worker register and second maps. This is a very important direction. The existence of a file and mapping is very important. That's where the injustices are based. Also, the non - dogmatic concept of forest utility is the only way to protect it. A note: In my constituency, Samos, we have a hundred firefighters and six hundred volunteers. This states a different culture against the forest, a different concept that says, 'I care for myself as a good, even if I do not have immediate economic advantage'. I think that in this direction we should emphasise. I would also like to make a few notes at the side of the bill on matters relating to merciful policy. I would say - on the position of Mr Brutsi above all - that a huge economic and productive falsification has been made for forty years, the core of the country's production identity has been destroyed, but also of a productive perception. The citizen has been trained not to produce, subsidise or consider claiming a subsidy to be synonymous with production. And in this distortion, we see today, in the crisis, its significant impact on insurance and on the "medium" conception of production. I think that correction or other productive model cannot incriminate a particular political area or a particular human being. I am of the opinion that there is a collective responsibility, but also a collective responsibility for correcting, posting. And micropolitical or a political petty I don't think it helps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Sevastakis. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I listened carefully to you a moment ago and truly with a surprise. Firstly, you said that you would not accept amendments. First of all, I should like to say that it must be the way in which it is legislated, that no amendments are accepted during the sitting. But you made a acceptance. And you did not accept ours - not personally, I mean your Government - which we resurrect for the fifth time and which finds the consensus of all parties. And I will explain later that it cannot be understood by anyone because it cannot be accepted. Therefore, the fact that you are not accepting amendments is not true. You accepted one during the debate. And since we are talking about this issue and I started by saying that I was right to say that the previous speaker from the opposition told you that the amendment on IPTO, which was incorporated into an article in this bill, should have discussed it in the next few days, because it has something to do with it. We cannot understand why he's getting into this bill since he's been discussing Tuesday and why you accepted it. But we have heard you say this before: 'I call on the Democratic Independence to vote against it'. Why? Because you have really accepted tough political criticism. And the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration told you in his speech that we will vote on it at first, as most of the opposition here today said. And while he told you that, you said in plenary, 'I call on you not to vote'. Of course, and it is political arrogance, this way of reaction and it characterises your Government. I would remind you that you did not vote for bills when you were in opposition, even what you are now moving on, because you now consider them reasonable to go ahead. And while, as a opposition, the Democratic Assent tells you, with its specific criticism of the articles and the arguments we have, that in principle we will support it, come and say, "I call on you to vote against it". I think citizens have a crisis, they see and understand. But you also gave us communal lessons. You told us to look at Mr. Mitsotakis at least and follow his communication tactic. In other words, you agree with Mr Mitsotakis' communication policy. It doesn't explain any other way. You told us that, at least, Mr. Mitsotakis has changed, he has corrected the situation and now he has another communication tactic. Well, that really goes beyond us. We did not expect it because our tactics did not relate to Mr Mitsotakis' policy, as we saw at the Thessaloniki International Fair, but also yours. What policy? This policy, which he says, 'I do not understand from the mistakes of the past'. And, of course, there can be many similarities and you can see agreements, such as, for example, governance 2004-2009, which you are not judging. And, of course, we also heard the Chief of Officerial Response at the ICM mentioning in the concrete way, the political acquittal of the period and the mistakes. So it seems that you and the New Democracy have understood nothing of the mistakes of the past. But, indeed, today you have overcome yourself in this particular matter. At the same time, you referred to the Greek and, indeed, to specific statements made by various government officials here yesterday in the plenary session, contradicting each other many times. You had said that "if you were an investor, you would be suspicious of the Greek. There is concern, the lot has not been saved, the movements to do their job." Mr Baltas said that 'on the road to socialism there is still reasonable to go even with strategic defeats'. Look, the left-wing street to socialism is indeed paved with melons, which it often runs on. If that doesn't remind you of anything, let me tell you it's the late Elias Elios who said it. This logic that you referred to yesterday, the logic of Balta, is another logic from the left-wing street that in socialism accepts the strategic defeats. So Balta logic has nothing to do with Elias’ logic in these matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u171	With democracy and freedom.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u172	Don't get upset, because that's reality right now. Of course, because, as yesterday, in 1936, Nikos Pouldzas who died in 1979 was born, I can tell you that socialism cannot exist unless it is democratic and if the Left is not democratic. In fact, in this particular matter, how you treat and how you handle democratic institutions, the independent authorities and all these issues, it is a sign of how you want the government to be exercised at this time, confronting yourself with many issues and then, by reproducing the passions of the past and, in fact, by magnifying them. So Mr Baltas described the investment of the Greek, "lost" and the Memorandum. I wonder who the victories are. What are the wins? The Almondsa reopening? Unless you mean victory, which you were across the street! Here, then, we must speak in clear words today and speak truths. We must therefore say that, in all matters, particularly in the economy, this government is pursuing a policy which is ineffective, whether it is taxes on taxes without reforms, be it insurance, or purely internal policy issues. All these issues are raised these days and, of course, with regard to the issue of the last few days of the Attica Bank. We must not forget on this point - because I have heard it from many speakers - that the government has used taxpayers' money in their losses to finance the Attica Bank through public bodies. That's the reality. It can't be twenty months that you've been ruling, lifting up and the only thing you say is 'what the previous people have done'. I am not going to go into this debate anymore and people are not interested in this debate. What you've been interested in right now is what you've been doing for twenty months. Here you are as a government, we will stand up to you and you will respond to the issues that we have put to you. That's our role. Ladies and gentlemen, the country's ill-considered economic situation - to mention the specific issues of the bill - and its hard effects seem to have, unfortunately, brought environmental issues to a second degree. For us, it is not the country's productive reconstruction to ignore their decisive contribution. The organization, therefore, and the strategy of the Ministry, particularly in crisis situations, must acquire that necessary maturity, which will be expressed by substantial interventions in the Register, in land use, in renewable energy sources, in the arbitrary construction of the protected areas of the country, in the management of waste. In fact, what is the difference in all these matters twenty months now? Have they become cut-offs? Is there any change? They all know very well that the country's forest wealth is invaluable. That is why we must respond to his most fundamental challenge, which is to normalise any conflicts between exploitation and protection. Today, the exploitation of Greek forests corresponds to less than 0.5% of GDP, while on the basis of forest cover, participation should be much greater. It is therefore necessary for the Ministry to have an integrated forestry policy plan. There are issues, Mr Minister, which need to be clarified, but also important loose ends for strengthening and protecting forest wealth. In order to be able to talk here about any facility for logging, sustainable forest management, we need to have a clear picture of where all the necessary steps are in this direction. We don't have a picture like that from the Ministry. In fact, given that about 25% of Greece's total area consists of forests, while another 25% consists of forest land, we understand the excellent importance of drawing up and posting forest maps, as well as of the Land register. These are two very important parameters. In order not to return to the debate that took place before, I should just like to say that you told the committee that the first forest maps would be displayed by the end of September. You've said that. And because we have heard too many such commitments from you, such as that by the summer of 2018 we will have all the maps ready, and because we hear and hear such commitments again and they are not made, finally start once and keep up with the timetable that you set. We would also like to know about the issue of forested arbitrary ones, following a recent ministerial decision to settle them. This is a huge issue to which I am very well aware that the positions of your own, the personal - I mean - and the space in which you were in - are not in line with what you have been doing lately. So you have to tell us what is the specific logic of the Ministry in this matter at the moment. Because what I have to say is that, at last, we must also respect the citizens who are law-abiding in all these matters. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to discuss the status of forest cooperatives with this bill. It goes on in a number of points in detail - the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration has told you too - so thoroughly and so detailedly that the meaning is actually lost at the moment. Political choices, proposals and initiatives are needed to strengthen the negotiating power of cooperatives. A main point we have made is the establishment of the forestry cooperative for which the signature of twenty-five persons is now required. You reduced it to twenty-one faces. We told you it was a lot. We have submitted to you evidence - I do not have to submit it again - that almost anywhere in the world is not that number. Even with the reduction - twenty-one - you kept him above Colombia, above China, while Finland has three, as in various other countries. I understand the argument you have made - which can be solved in other ways - but, if you like, in doubling, for example, from seven to fourteen. Being in twenty-five and twenty-one when there is no international example, or, in any case, minimal and third worldly? To move on to other issues, because I don't have much time. The rapporteur has already done so. I will make a point about the rules of procedure of forest cooperatives. Of course the legislator must define a framework for forestry legislation, but not the way in which the relationships between members of the cooperative and between them - this is a basic principle - is at risk of preventing cooperative autonomy. A significant shortage also in the proposed bill, in which we have focused on agricultural cooperatives, is cooperative education. The bill leaves some gaps in the training of foresters by not clarifying either how or how. In fact, because of our country's position in logging accidents, it is necessary for the training of the disciples to include issues of health, safety and first aid. Ladies and gentlemen, before I close, I would like to tell you again on the subject of the amendment we tabled, for the ELGA. At least the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Members - who seem to agree - must agree on the amendment we have tabled to put pressure on them. This situation doesn't explain otherwise. We have proven that there is no cost. There are other exceptions to research institutions, where there are no costs for the State. And here there is no cost and no expense. We have also tabled a question - in addition to what Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Jellonis have said to you - and to the Minister for Rural Development and to the Minister for Finance in the summer. The Minister for Rural Development is answering us on other issues - Mr Bollaris in particular - and the Minister for Finance has not answered. And Mr Apostleu came to tell us today that it is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. You really need to decide as a government to resolve this issue, because it has to do with the compensation to be paid, 2015, and the estimates to be made in 2016. In conclusion, I would like to say that today's bill is a bill that actually contains some positive provisions, but also many problematic ones. However, legislative work must not be exhausted in them and leave to air important issues, abstaining from an integrated plan for effective action in this area, to finally achieve sustainable development, which is a combination of social, economic and environmental development. These things, unfortunately, have been forgotten in the crisis. But the Ministry of the Environment and the government in question must not forget them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u173	Mr Screkas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, it was indeed an opportunity today for this bill to be a bill on which we could reach a total consensus on what you are trying to achieve, and which is to make use of and rationalize the exploitation of a very important resource - wealth of the country, which is the Greek forests. As we said at the outset, the New Democracy supports this bill, despite the fact that I, too, believe that the increase from seven to twenty-one members of each forestry cooperative is an increase which in some cases creates problems. And I'm talking about areas of the island area. Unfortunately, however, in today's case, ladies and gentlemen, this consensus cannot be achieved without any shadow. I am referring, of course, to these amendments, which have come and joined the main text of the bill and, unfortunately, have nothing to do with the bill under discussion and also give rise to major disagreements on the part of the Opposition. I would like to make some comments on Amendment 680/67/20-9-2016, which has been incorporated as Article 56 in this bill. We have seen, unfortunately, all over the last few weeks, in recent months, the country has been subject to fines by the European Union of EUR 10 million and EUR 15 million every time for the operation of CSR without control and without a framework, as well as for the management of hazardous waste. This, unfortunately, shows that the government at this point is sliding once again and is not moving fast things that had started in the past two years. Unfortunately, at the moment, when the Greek citizen is being penalised and over-taxed, the Greek state comes and takes money from the Greek taxpayer to pay fines and penalty payments imposed on Greece by the European Commission. First of all, we agree with this amendment, but - I repeat - it does not solve the problem. In other words, it is permitted to set up waste transhipment plants, for example, in woodland, grazing, etc. for Evia and for Crete. However, this does not solve the problem of fines, but also the general problem of waste and hazardous waste management in our country. Here too, call on the Minister responsible to speed up even more your actions to get out of this problem. However, what I would like to insist on, ladies and gentlemen, is Amendment No 678/65, which is incorporated as Article 54, which concerns IPTO. This amendment says that according to PPC's general meeting, the separation process of the electricity transmission operator - which took place in July 2016 - will first proceed with the sale of 24% of IPTO to the strategic investor that will result from a tender and then the holding company will be set up, contrary to what was envisaged, first to set up the holding company, to make the distribution of the shares to PPC's shareholders and then to sell 24% to a strategic investor. But we, Minister, disagree in principle with the plan submitted by your government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, as far as IPTO is concerned. We believe that this project creates even more problems for an already burdened company, such as PPC, which, unfortunately, has been overly burdened by the political choices made by the relevant Minister, Mr. Skourletis, lately, this one-year period which is in the Ministry's leadership, but also your government. And I'll explain what I mean. First of all, there was a plan for IPTO, which, according to the then estimates, would have been used by PPC for this significant asset, there would have been an investor who would have come up after a tender, and the estimates were that PPC could have earned at least EUR 800 million for the percentage it would have sold. Today, a few months before you have brought a plan according to which a part of IPTO will be sold, a percentage of IPTO, without seeming this 24% will give a fair and worthy price of the value that this company has, and PPC will transfer a further 25% percentage to a public company, IPTO, without setting the price that this company will pay to PPC and, otherwise, the remaining 51% will be transferred, 26% to the public and 25% to the existing shareholders, the small shareholders of PPC, so that we have a shape so that 51% of IPTO will be again under public control. This, Minister, we believe, will ultimately devaluate PPC's value, a PPC which is already due and sees them gigantic. Over the last two years from about 1.5 billion euros in 2014, it has reached 3.1 billion euros last month. This means that PPC cannot meet its obligations. At the moment its debts to suppliers have reached EUR 600 million. It cannot implement and implement its investment plan, which could make its plants more modern, so that it can produce cheaper energy and more efficiently, so that it can pay less pollutants, which means that this investment plan, once PPC has no liquidity, goes far behind and we do not know if it will be implemented. Finally, basically, we are talking about a company that is the main pillar of electricity production in the country, on which the entire Greek economy, the Greek households and the production base of the country are based, which quickly goes into bankruptcy, under the political choices and directions of your Ministry and your Government. And you do nothing about it, but you only bring this amendment, which speeds up a plan for IPTO which will further depreciate PPC's value and make its survival even more unfavourable. As a government, you should come here and tell us what the strategic plan is, what the overall plan for the safety and energy adequacy of our country is. As you move, I fear that PPC's value will approximate the value of one euro and the next government, whichever next government, will be called upon to manage a company in bankruptcy. We have seen this example with the 'TRAINOSE'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Screka, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u176	I shall conclude, Mr President. You mentioned, Minister, the issue of the sepsis, of interacting and corruption and of the great crisis of values, which has been gloated over the past decades. And, indeed, you have been a little more or more burdened by the PASOK party, which, by a majority of some 70% -80% of the year, has been in power since 1981. But what do you do about it? What did you say about the conflict today, Minister? How do you do it? With this laughing competition? Where are some successful tenderers looking to find the money with guarantees, as they all read, pastures, with loans that each individual knows that these loans are almost unlikely to be repaid? And what about all these loans and all the debts that the channels will close? What about the public debts they have toward their employees, to the banks, why are they borrowed? What are you going to do with all of this, which may be more than EUR 600 million? What are you gonna do with all this? And you'll hit the complication when you come here August of this year and Mr. Spirtz is abolished...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Screka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u178	And I conclude, Mr President, that the law, the incompatibility which New Democracy had voted for, between a channellor and a public works contractor, has been abolished. This is how you're going to hit the complication? In this way you are bringing the complexion back, bring the sepsis back, bring corruption back to the top of the Greek society, as it has actually been in the past decades and the country has arrived here. This phenomenon has become Greek, native to Greek society. That's what you're doing. You are continually those practices of rot and corruption. And, of course, let us not forget that too many officials from those governments today are running into the SYRIZA government headquarters and are taking the lead in your own political applications. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u179	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Famelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a new institutional framework for forestry cooperative organisations. An institutional framework, which is necessary, because we have a very important and useful job ahead of us for society, for the resolution of these organisations, for their development and for improving their functioning. It is remarkable, almost all of Parliament's parties, that the 2000 law created serious problems and that space needs a great refreshing section. Unfortunately, we have lived in the countryside and live a hostage of the foresters, due to the distortions that the law has had, but to some extent - let me say - the country's political administration in recent years. Fortunately we agree and do not have to disagree with something which all people, who are involved in forest logging and forest management, know about, and that is why there is also this consensus - not entirely - in the adoption of the law. We are obviously not just moving from the bad situation in this area and the great problems, but also from the fact that international conditions but also our Constitution supports the strengthening of cooperative cooperation. Unfortunately, in recent years, not only in the woods but in the agricultural sector as a whole, there has been a great devaluation, but I would also say that there has been a great small-party exploitation of the cooperative. The complex had dominated the cooperative space and the positive history of Greece - which was a positive story in the cooperative movement - became perhaps one of the hardest, darkest or perhaps negative features of modern Greece. Unfortunately, there is no trust in the cooperatives or Greek farmers, much more than Greek society, because large scandals, combined with the banking system and always the political parties of the New Democracy and PASOK, characterized the entire Greek province. We must, however, make a great effort to return to the healthy principles of the social and cooperative economy. This is not just about the specific bill concerning forest cooperative organisations. It was preceded by a similar bill for agricultural cooperatives and then, in the near future, a large section for the social economy. Because we believe that within society there are healthy powers, young scientists, but also people with a little bit of work and a lot of work. And the previous one, if you would like, of the two-party period became Greece a country without a job, without a good time, because it was very simply not possible to find the result of his work honestly and a place to create and think freely. The whole story is that it betrayed to a very large extent all the democratic features of Greek society and the entire progressive world. He took particular advantage of this world to create the same benefit, either at the top of the cooperative movement or in the management of the political chair. For us, however, this law is primarily linked to the need for regional development. I think the Minister said so in particular, we want people to stay in the countryside, we want income in the countryside, infrastructure projects and environmental management by the workers themselves who care about their country, income and real product. All that lisverish you've played in previous years with the stock exchange, which just ate the cosmic's money, has to stop. Greece is turning to the real product economy and the operation of foresters is such a concrete example. They are people of hardship, but so far they have been exploited by merchants and by the whole system of intermediates, if you like, non-productive stages of trade. At the same time, we believe that this bill can also contribute to the condition that we give to the new economy, to the cyclical economy, because these environmentally sustainable characteristics also have the function of these people in the forests. Thus, it is proposed and envisaged that these cooperatives and other activities, such as the processing of these products, increase the number of members so that there is no exploitation by unauthorised persons, who are not holders of the forester's status. There is now a clear provision for what this status is, but there is also provision for training and training for teachers. The financial responsibility of the members in the cooperatives now comes, because the public will not be called upon to solve and pay for the broken, stolen, I would say - you know it better than I do - of the cooperatives. Obviously, there is also transparency in their democratic procedures with representatives in their elections, with antiquities, with a ballot, but also with a self-control of their own activities. There is State supervision of these cooperatives and of rules of operation and provision is made for the disposal of the products by tendering procedure so that no direct delegation is made to any trader at very high costs of intermediate management to the final consumer. This transparency of economic activities enables us to have a healthy competition, to have entrepreneurship, to have a cooperative conscience, to have a job and at the same time to finance and to provide tax and development incentives for these cooperatives. I think that this is how there is a clear field, a roadmap for reconstituting forest cooperatives and reconciling them, to stop the phenomenon of cooperatives - seals. We believe that the number of participants also ensures these standards and these conditions. However, there is also a debate on other issues of the rural area and let me refer to them, because my colleague from the Democratic Reconciliation and another Member have already raised an issue concerning the amendment to the ELGA. First of all, I think we need to make it clear that Law No.4336/2015, which limited the compensation of auditors and assessors, is a law which was also passed by the Democratic Incorporation by the New Democracy. We are therefore coming to resolve a problem that was created after a negotiation and the compromise we made last summer. What did he predict? It provided for a limitation on the days on which findings can be found, so off-site inspections and a reduction in compensation. We came and amended by another legislative act the number of days out in the field, so a hundred fifty farmers went in two two days and a hundred eighty veterinarians also went to two hundred. No one mentioned that. Good, you don't remember what we're voting for. It's okay. We'll move on. At the same time, it has become clear that this law allows us to resolve the problem by a ministerial decision and the statement by the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Apostle, is that we have this aim, because you understand that it is also part of a negotiating framework and it has already been proposed on our part so that we can increase the fifteen minutes that are the compensation. So don't spill crocodile tears. The problem, obviously, and we know it. We have increased the days for these people to be in the field, and we are obviously seeking to sign this ministerial decision, but now you do not want to resolve this. You want to attack a government minister personally. We are, however, going to solve the problem, so that we can be okay with the assessors and the farmers. We're letting you do a micropolicy. It is a fact that it would be a wishful task if this bill were limited only to the real policy debate, which is the forest cooperative movement, but there was an attempt to connect to the forest maps - listen to those who had been at 1% so many years and now, as far as we know, on the 27th of the month, 20% is posted with a law that was passed a while ago, if I'm not mistaken, in May 2016. We repeat that in four months' time, when in the past fifteen years you had reached 1% of the suspension. In four months 20% was posted. I do not think that these should be said here for us who know what was going on, because we had served in places where we could not put up forest maps and lived this very intensely. But I have the feeling that opposition and many media are trying to falsify reality in too many fields, rather - for us it is certain - that they have made an agreement to destroy the government. They obviously hide that they are at the same time trying to destroy the country, because where we end up is that this attempt by the Anti-Policy wants to destroy the work of the Greeks, they want to damage the honesty of the Greeks, they want to destroy the work of the Greeks. This is the most important problem they are trying to create, just to get back to the chairs of power. Of course, Mr. Brutsis made a huge leap from forest cooperatives went to television licenses, but I wonder why they scratched themselves in the soap bag. In the last few days, we have been under an unprecedented and coordinated attack by the media which has not been successful in the competition for television licences or by bidders, who probably cannot or do not want to pay the first instalment for their licensing and, of course, by many of those who have participated in a tender with whom they disagreed but did not participate. At the dance, of course, the opposition parties have also entered - and I wonder whether there is a contract or not - to clarify and explore it - which are trying to smash the all-important process - from everyone, even with the hardest opponents of it - to hide their own obvious responsibilities, because they chose twenty-seven years not to give television licences, to deprive public revenues, to let this party of interlocutors, but also to make a political agreement with the canalarchs: first of all to show them to keep their political chairs and then to play all the games that the canalarchs wanted to continue to broadcast without permission. You have not issued a tender, you have not given a licence and still have the questions: have you not had the political courage, have you not had the political size, or have you had other interests, and have you not tendered for television licences all these years? However, we have quite successfully done an imprecise procedure. Within one year, 50 million have been paid for advertising fees and frequency charges, and 250 million is the price to be paid by the four successful tenderers up to now. These, even as an income, were deprived by the Greeks and, of course, you were deprived of the implementation of the Constitution. You did not defend the public interest in television licences. It's very sad and you're trying to suspend and erod the contest. We're not doing you the favor. We know that with the calm it distinguishes us and the perfectly successful design it can proceed legally, as the House has decided, the authorisation procedure with strict control of compliance with all the conditions, because there are so many monitoring stages which are obviously concerned by successful tenderers throughout the competition, because the financial surface must also be examined. I can already inform you that three have been cut, another because he has not paid a paradox, another because he has not given a proper guarantee, another because he has not been informed. Here it seems to us that we are clarifying in a legitimate, strict way the interests of the public on the one hand and any attempts by any businessman who wants to go beyond the public interest. It's all legal. There are, of course, precedents against the successful tenderers. Of course, if they fail, they will also lose this title, and then they will be called - and they have already been called - to pay the amount of the first instalment, and if they cannot, they will also lose the licence. And whoever thinks he was wrong, there's always the judicial way in which anyone can object and appeal. If there is any issue, at a transparent level, in the face of society, in front of the legitimate prosecutors, I would ask that any objections be raised. There are many security differences in this process, but those who talk about opacity and dark trade, or have something to hide or have been used to working so far. So this has stopped. Public opinion has been informed, and everything has been done in the public area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, I shall conclude. Because, carefully, we are talking about an area whose entrepreneurs have so far delayed wage payments, accumulated unpaid sea loans and had come to an agreement or become accustomed to the political system of 'DIGEA' competitions: A contestor, without being informed, without'substantially', at the lowest possible price, with the least benefit for the public space. Is that the way you were accustomed to competitioning with the media people? That's no longer the case. Society requires legality, cost, price. I would also like to say another thing: there is a great debate about the Attica Bank, and I would like to say this: we are all responsible for defending the stability of the banking system and the legality and ethical of banking ethics. Take great care of these games, which you play, whether they serve legality or they serve those who question our banks. We defend the banking system in order for society and the economy to exist upright. I would like to say to you this: there has been a debate on whether we want or are interested in the conclusion of Attica Bank in the Committee of Inquiry. I should therefore like to inform the House that since May, as chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, I have signed a request to the Bank of Greece for the findings of the SSM and the findings of capital adequacy. So, long before it emerges from publicity, we took the initiative and claimed transparency at all levels of banking operation and at all levels of licensing. That's our attempt. Be careful, then, not to be exposed, as you were exposed to "Ithaka Resort", because some people were talking about pastures and today we see in the newspapers that there are five kilometers of beach, projects that had passed through the fast track investments of the Ministry that Mr Screkas served until a while ago and I didn't know about them, publications about one and two billion investments in the area. These aren't ours. In your period of rule, they had come out. We're not with a canalarch. We're not defending any successful ones. We all want them to be honest, to be transparent and to be examined, all to come to the committee of inquiry and the citizen to judge and to know that the law goes back to our country. I would like to say one final word - Mr President, please forgive me very much for the time - on the issue of insurance. Mr Brutsis said a number of questions, of course, on the insurance issue. Mr. Brutsis, governments that have served eleven reductions in insurance and at least 40% of pension cuts, which did not support the Conference of Political Heads our proposal to defend the main pension and are today talking about the insurance that left a mess with nine hundred different ways of calculating pensions in the IKA and which had planned to do so on television - to cut a pension by pensioners in 2015. However, they did not say anything that IKA for the first time was not borrowed to pay the pensions of September and will do the same for October. They said nothing that IKA's revenues increased this year by EUR 350 million, 5% being the increase in IKA's revenue. They said nothing about the work we do to keep the insurance system up. It is at least funny to shed crocodile tears by the 'Minister of Unemployment' of the New Democracy and we cannot raise our voice and say: 'It is enough'! We will save the insurance system, because we have an obligation on the Greek citizen, not for our political chair, but you will not play with the pensions to get a chair, which was the chair of unemployment, memorials and austerity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u181	Mrs. Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u182	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after the stormy position of our Parliamentary representative, the return to this bill may be tiresome. Almost everything has been said and it seems to be at least on this bill - and that is good - a broad consensusary parliamentary position. So you will allow me, as a result of a mountain and forested area, to make my position with two main observations, with the first reminder that Greece, apart from Athens and the large urban centres, consists of many geographical areas, which in about 40% are forests and forest areas. So, with this specific legislative initiative, which is mainly aimed at these regions, we are trying to re-establish and normalise the operation of forest cooperatives, namely to put on a healthy footing the protection of forest areas and the proper use of forest wealth, since the absence of economic activity is known for many years that it results in the abandonment and depopulation of mountainous areas. Of course, when we talk about exploitation, which has often been said in this Chamber, we do not mean uncontrolled business, but all the work that needs to be done by the people who need rules and control. The second point concerns an event which makes the necessity of the bill, I would say, more timely than ever. In the past few days we had the fires, the fire in Thassos that destroyed over 100 thousand acres, which need to be restored as soon as possible, both for the environment itself and for the people who live in it and from it. There is therefore a great need to exercise decisively prevention measures against forest fires, as prevention is known to cost only 1% of the resources spent on fire-fighting and forest destruction. So what is the best way to prevent fires on a mountain? It is known that this forest area is alive, with worlds, with foresters, with growth and growth of grazing, with designed and controlled activity. So what changes with the bill what we suggest? We are trying to improve, as I have said before, the organisation and operation of forest cooperatives, while extending the scope of activities, so as to become an essential factor in the sustainable management of forestry ecosystems and in improving forest products. At the same time, protectionist regulations and incentives are being introduced, and legal gaps are being covered in order to bring about an economic activity that is now in obscurity. In 2009, for example, revenues from the sale of timber were EUR 22 million with 12% of them directed to the state, while in 2014-2015 they have been reduced to EUR 9 million. Specifically, what's changing? The previous law had turned, for those who say they had done it all right, unfortunately the cooperatives in family and even individual businesses. So in very small abandoned villages, like the village of my origin, there were eleven cooperatives, with the registration of members of the same family, where one might be a forester. So, with the draft legislation being discussed, the number of these members is increasing. And it was right to accept and legislative improvement of the Ministry to twenty-one natural persons from the seven that were required today. However, for the mountainously populated areas - and others have said so - there are still requests that the number of members - might be reduced, perhaps seventeen members - to ensure that they operate properly at the limits of the Callicratic municipality. And this is a request for forest cooperatives in the region from which they come, saying that they should also be taken into account for morphological, population and self-government criteria. The most essential thing, however, that is the draft law, is what we call the "forger's specificity". To be a prerequisite for the acquisition and maintenance of the membership of the cooperative, to be demonstrated by the iKA's trademarks and to be confirmed by a committee set up at the Forest Directorate concerned. Moreover, expanding the work of forest cooperatives in the marketing, marketing, processing and processing of forest products is absolutely essential, as it will reduce the phenomena resulting from the way in which timber traded by traders, who have often defined forestry work, quality, quantity and selling price. Moreover, much of the potential for forest products remained unexploited. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of forest cooperatives is linked in a way and with local self-government. And I think the Ministry must insist that the responsibility and decision to exploit forests be at the level of decentralised administration rather than at regional level, for less bureaucracy, more flexibility, the same rules of operation and the same logic of dealing with public administration. Another important element, which will be judged by the success of the law, is the rationalisation of the drafting of management studies, with the main aim of reducing costs. The remuneration of scholars is particularly high, and it is well known that they are based on past data. This means that many municipalities are unable to cover the high cost and thus remain untreated enough municipal forests. For example, 70% of forests in the Ioannina Prefecture are municipal and you understand what the problem is. A proposal, therefore, to reduce costs, would be to pay for wood production. Also, a great contribution to improving the whole operation would be the uptake of both forestryists through the eight months of OAED and the municipalities and forests, which would help significantly in this direction, while there is a great shortage of staff and staff to clean up and safeguard forests. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, our country needs a reorganisation and development of the economy and agricultural production - and of course it is not exhausted in this bill - which has been systematically undermined over recent years. Our proposal for the production reconstruction of the countryside does not mean ignoring the contribution of the forest economy and its importance for a large part of the country to mountainous areas. Today - it was said by others - the management of the Greek forests is less than half of GDP, while on the basis of forestry - as others have said - one would expect more important involvement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The proposals for economic activity in the forestry sector, proposed by this bill, aim to create jobs in the countryside and strengthen the local economy, cover part of forestry protection needs and manage forest ecosystems from well-cooperative schemes which do not conflict with the public nature of forestry and, finally, strengthen social responsibility for the protection of the forest environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u183	We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamanto Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u184	The truth is, we have forest wealth. Except forest ecosystems are on abandonment. And you know, Minister, it's not after the Civil War. Because in some cases it has been done and forced to do so. In other words, in the regions of Grammos, where there is a great wealth of forest ecosystems, the villages have been empty. After Conica, you had to have a passport to get there. And I'm talking about the inhabitants of these villages, which have necessarily been expelled. After the junta was made possible and refilled, at least with their pensioners. I say this because it is seventy years from the Republican Army of Greece. We and we remember and learn and honor and continue. And by the way that at Tritsi Park today opens the KNE Festival, a large part of its program is just for the Democratic Army of Greece. But for forest ecosystems, we need to talk about the two, that's three, that's three, that's three decades ago. Why? Because it's getting worse. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to give us an answer on this matter. Why? Because staff shortages are large, naked services, limitations even on staff movements to reduce travel costs. With regard to what Mr Kegeroglu said about ELGA, yes, there is a problem with their movements. We too agree with the amendment tabled and a pity that is not accepted. Of course, at the same time, there are all the anti-religious laws that have been passed by previous governments. You also disagreed, but many of these laws live and reign and perpetuate. It is natural, then, that if we have 55% of the land on forest land, it does not even give 0.5% of GDP. So who's to blame for that? Isn't it all the anti-religious policy of the urban state? Here, even the definition of the forest by a scientist has become a legal definition, and so for years there has been a postponement of the debate in the Council of State on the critical characteristics of the forest, causing involvement in the matter of forest maps. Even the provisions of those laws that broaden the status of permitted interventions in forests for business activity, i.e. the profitability of the few, or even the lack of a national and forestry register, tariff, forest maps, the design of land that is profit-based. The legal framework for forests, the expectation of legalisation of arbitrariness and other forest violations, to the detriment of forest ecosystems and so many property loose ends. At the same time, the Forest Service and Forest Research are subordinated, resources are shrinking, depreciated in total and scientifically and cannot meet the protection, management and development requirements of forest ecosystems. But why is that? Because the strategy of the bourgeoisie is to serve the interests of the monopolistic business groups and, indeed, hierarchy. The political intensity of the capitalist exploitation of land and its use essentially presupposes in practice, in various forms, the change of ownership status from state to private of a significant part of the earth, by changing legislation to the benefit of private ownership or use. This is what privatizations serve. And yesterday we talked about Greek and June with the port of Piraeus. That's right. This policy presupposes the privatization, transfer of forests or their long-term lease, the declassification of millions of hectares, the assignment of state areas of forest ecosystems to enhance business activity. That is why you are voting for laws, to open doors and windows to all kinds of interventions, investments which would be of interest, and to ensure that they are implemented and at least costly. So, with this bill, you make the new vehicle, the forest cooperatives, which are capitalist commercial companies, and let us not admit it. They will not be forest cooperatives of forest workers, who in difficult circumstances try to survive with some limited part-time income, from their job not enough to live, how much more to save to build other infrastructure. You describe this in the explanatory statement, and you are right to say that due to the failure of cooperatives to cover the guarantee letters to the public, to award forest work to the traders for advance payments and thus to form the price of wood, resin and others that they sell to them at the lowest possible level. Can I talk to you? That is the way we are doing in agricultural cooperatives today, now that we are talking about. Now they're taking the raisin. Any farmer who asks for a deposit - because you know merchants pay production after three, four months - understand that he needs it and they throw the price at him. This is the capitalism that the left government serves. You're protecting the big traders and that's why you're legislating. And, by the way, you did not give us any information - to tell us how many forest cooperatives are today, how many loggings, how many rhein collectors are there and where. I am talking about 2014-2015, about the latest data on both the size and importance of the intervention. Because, yes, there are forest workers who work, but there are also "music" cooperatives and foresters. There are also non-registered contractors who do not only logging, do more. So you come with this bill to be soaking illusions that you will secure the forester's profession with the operation of their forest cooperatives, which are commercial capitalist businesses. From the first article, guarantee this. That is why you are extending the scope of action by providing them with development incentives and tax exemptions. The purpose is to concentrate the forestry object on fewer enterprises, forest cooperatives and the penetration of commercial banking capital into the object. You are essentially privatising the object of the management of state forests in commercial enterprises, which may in name be called forest cooperative organisations with members of certified forest workers. You appear to seek rationalization of existing forest lands. We're telling you, what guarantees? Who's gonna give these guarantees? The banks? So this is where the road to debit and bankruptcy opens. And you came to ask the Communist Party of Greece that, in any case, you do not want to improve the position of the forester in order to process as in the agricultural cooperatives. But we barely know what's going on. And - you know - agricultural cooperatives have been bankrupt in the consciousness of the farm - your rapporteur said so before - and this does not change with laws similar to those of the previous ones. They also bring together the agricultural production cooperatives on behalf of the trader, carve the farmer for every service they provide him, such as the IACC's requests for his subsidies. And according to your law members are both traders and industrialists and processors, i.e. the sheep wolf. And life itself has shown that under no circumstances has these cooperatives helped not to get rid of small and medium-sized farmers. And those who have remained continue the struggle of survival without any support from the cooperatives. And with regard to the fact that we Communists cannot see the Left ruling in the context of capitalism, I would remind you, Minister, that SYRIZA called us to participate and refused. And we were right, because we knew what we were saying, that you were giving it all to "slash" the exploiting capitalist system in his judgment, pouring out the working class and the populace. You better do the dirty job for the capitalists' profits, so they're fencing you. You are in pain, because we reveal to you and why you are all voting together for what serves capital. It's a hypocritical attitude and you're trying to sow deceit. The laws of the capitalist market will sooner or later lead the forest cooperative organisations operating for the dividend, as will agricultural cooperatives, either tied up at the hands of traders, as is done to date to a certain extent, but also banks, or bankrupt. The sure thing is that it will survive a small number of capitalist enterprises active in the marketing and processing of forest products for as long as they win from forests and when profitability decreases, they will close them down. Forest cooperatives cannot manage forests, they cannot guarantee conditions of labour productivity. They can, however, ensure large capitalist companies when they consider that they will profit from this activity. So in question, if the new Forest Cooperatives Act solves these problems, that is to say whether to protect the forest wealth or to trade it for the profit of a few vehicles with the basic cooperative, we say that first you have to answer whether forests are a commodity for profit or good for the needs of the people in oxygen, resin, wood for processing, furniture, paper, fuel etc. You've made a choice. When all of you, the parties that have made governments, have you traded the health of people, the education of our children, the needs of people with disabilities and so many others, will you now exclude the forests? You are merely serving it, as you are accustomed to, with the philosopher’s cloak, to allegedly have differences from the previous ones. You voted together, you did the same yesterday and, finally, you do not. We say that forest ecosystems are socially good. Integrated protection and management must be made centrally with a scientific design to serve the people's needs, not by converting them into goods and criteria on the market and profitability. That is why we call on the people's movement to demand that all the anti-African legislative framework be abolished, that it walks on a line of conflict with groups and their state, the civil state. For the Communist Party of Greece, from the point of view of the interests of the working class, its land and its use, forest ecosystems, are social goods and must be social property.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to my compatriot, Mrs Manolakou, to analyse the attitude of her party as a parliamentary representative. What I didn't understand, of course, is how he got into the Democratic Army, Grammos, Konica and all the forests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u187	Grammus has a lot of forests, too much!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u188	You have to understand - and I think you understand - that you must not provoke historical memory. You are the only parliamentary party today, which tried to change the country's civilisation with arms. We are trying to forget these things, and we must forget them, because new generations owe nothing to what has been done fifty and seventy years ago. So do not expose old wounds, for there are open wounds from each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u189	And we have to learn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u190	I feel, Mrs Manolakou, that forests are more eternal than these memories, which must be forgotten.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u191	And Taygeto is a story.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u192	I repeat, you are the only parliamentary party today who tried to change the civilisation with the weapons. You did not do so because of the majority of the Greek people and the national army, who stood up to the circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u193	The Anglo-American.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, I have always said that the Ministry, which Mr Chironis owns, a man with a path in the field of ecology and the natural environment, should always be coordinated with two other ministries, both the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Culture. Because both the productive environment (Ministry of Rural Development) and the cultural environment (Ministry of Culture) are directly related to the Ministry of the Environment itself. I am saying this because the effort being made, an attempt by Parliament's legislative initiative, which we support, which we in many respects have supported and supported through our rapporteur, Mr Mitsarakis, is an effort which promotes a number of issues such as the processing of forest wealth through forest workers, but on the other hand, I feel that it has a fragmentation of their effectiveness. The forest, as Mrs Manolakou rightly said, has, I would say, been depreciated from the point of view of workers - of course, this is another case that is huge - as the other natural rural areas of the country have been depreciated by people who have, unfortunately, given their place in the migrants for over 15 years - 20 years in our country have been replaced because of the wages due to the whole composition of the production process, agricultural hands. On what we stand on, it is that the forest maps, as you have rightly said, must finally appear, a clearer picture of the logbook and, finally, this underselling of forest services must be stopped. The New Democracy as a liberal party, a civil character, is always in favour of the small state of service. Of course, it is always in favour of strengthening those services, such as health, such as the rural economy, such as the country's environmental situation with that staff, that staffing, which will come from a better and more, I would say, proper management of the staffing potential of the wider public sector. For example, it is not the Forest Service of the Laconia Prefecture - and I say this because it is an emblematic area of the Peloponnese - with two huge mountainous tumors, such as the one in Taygetos and Parnon, that only has five forestists, who will manage all the problems, with three Forestry, thirty-five forest guards. The problems are most often seen when there is a fire and there is a ministerial meeting that comes and we see the biggest of every other time deforestation of the Forest Service, when you see people who want to help, not having the means and the capabilities. You've come to Naples last year with the fires and you saw the deforestation of the Forest Service. I therefore think there should be a workable effort in this regard, in addition to the legislative initiatives that you are taking, in order to ensure that forestry services are better served. Also, with the echo of yesterday's Greek meeting, we should see more Attica's lungs, but not just Attica, as far as their management is concerned, like Tatoi. There are studies by the Hellenic Environment Society, which can go ahead. The Ministry of Culture is doing a great deal of work on the conservation buildings of the former Tatoi palaces, and I think that this great natural reserve in Attica must at last be attributed to its natural recipients, who are the Greek people, who are the inhabitants, the citizens of this country. It cannot be the ideals and paths of the past that lead our steps even in this case, which, if it were known, is what the whole world says in another state, this great cultural reserve, such as the former Tatoi palace and this wonderful natural wealth of Tatoi, has not been exploited. In the recent destruction suffered by Laconia from the flooding of the Euro and other torrents in other municipalities, a ministerial step has appeared, as is usually the case. You know that after a disaster - not now, decades now - the ministerial step is coming to make an estimate of damage. The President of ELGA, by the name of Kurebes, said the payments would start in November, but as the findings go forward, the procedures will proceed. I share the amendment of the Democratic Asylum and other wings in this Chamber. You need to see it. I regret, as I said at the outset, that the Minister for Rural Development is not here to support something very important. This amendment must be accepted. You are not competent in this matter, unfortunately, but in any case you should not be left alone. I think that the costly system that the Minister said earlier in a timely question, this morning, shows that it needs to be changed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Do you know that the ELGA of Tripoli, to which the President of the ELGA refers for the Laconia disasters, has hired ten contractors to make assessments faster and to provide money and do these people accept their appointments because the so-called 'estimates' have been reduced from 25 to 15 minutes? It is what you abdicate us that we voted for other reasons last summer. But there is also the asterisk of special, exceptional conditions, including the floods, where what the Democratic Alliance says could be included and accepted and accepted. Why do you not accept this amendment? It is - I would say - strange, at least because the damage that is being done is enormous. Also, whenever it becomes a natural disaster, they are invoking, Mr Minister - I tell you to convey it to your colleague - the ELGA regulation. The Gospel has become the ELGA regulation. Recently an amendment has been made to change the ELGA regulation on compensation for the agricultural environment from deer. The same must be done for feral pigs, which is a huge issue. The population of wild boars in the Peloponnese, at least, is huge.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Davakis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u196	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. There is also the issue of incarinity. There is inconsistency in olive groves in the Laconia Prefecture, but also throughout the Peloponnese, and the Minister responsible who heads the ELGA - and Mr Bolaris, who knows the issues - must see it by changing the ELGA regulation and giving concrete compensation. That is what I wanted to say and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u197	The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Dannelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last year we closed down from the last election. "We end with the old," said the Prime Minister in his last election speech in the Constitution, "with the old and the worn". How close are we to this one year later? Because I think that all this maniac slogan that was set up on this motto, all this rhetoric of morality today, it turns out that it was nothing more than another dividing and polarizing tool. It is well known that even in democracies, when morals are used at work, it leads to a discount and a cannibalism of institutions. Above all, it leads to a new civil war bipolars, which do not in any way prejudge the new one, but are directly referring to the oldest, the most problematic, in this old inter-terrorism, corruption, the manipulation of the rest of the powers by the executive, in the end of public life. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have not finished with the old one, because unfortunately in many areas, you are reproducing it on many occasions, making it with ideological clichés, with the aim of maintaining you in power and not changing all the features of power. But ideological clichés do not promote democracy. Instead, it is narrowed, as citizens are divided into good and bad, first and second categories, "to ours and others", what the Left historically experienced in such a painful way for many decades. A left-wing government would therefore expect a republic of the compositions as a project. A left-wing government would expect to know that democracy is not a conquered goal but a lasting struggle, a struggle of self-criticism and self-improvement of all those who compose it. Unfortunately, you do not seem to do this, because not only do you not recognise your shortcomings - many of which are justified or expected - but instead, by theorizing these you are attacking and that is not a left-wing policy today. The aim of the Left is to overcome the pitfalls of power and to pursue a clear policy without selfishness and inclusiveness. Let us not forget, since we are talking about the new and the old, that bonaparism, of course, characterized yesterday, but we are seeing him with very strong expressions in the case of television licences. It is a case in which you have lost a historic opportunity to reorganise and exalt the very problematic broadcasting landscape in an institutional manner. You have missed an opportunity, to which you have had comparative advantages, because for the left, control and authority cannot be an end in itself, much more is not done to establish its own new fireplaces, fireplaces that directly refer to days, persons and situations that we lived in the late 1980s and which we would like to forget. Unfortunately, we are reliving a special de ja vu. We must finally stop making fun of ourselves, ladies and gentlemen. Domestic temperous predators who appear with a lot of nerve even today are the new economic barons. The rotating logic of the netting of "because others did it yesterday, we do it today" eliminates the famous prerogative of the moral advantage to which you are constantly referring, because it is not a donation stamp for anyone and must be confirmed in practice. As the adequate and acceptable responses are pending for what has happened with the Bank of Attica and not only with the continuous changes and choices of the individual of the bank's management, some coincidences within the context of the tension relationship that has sometimes deteriorated between the government and the central bank, seem even to be beyond Murphy's law today. For all this, we must be careful of all the expressions of power. In addition, the Attica Bank has a lot of answers and I have referred to this issue from this step, when we spoke in the draft law on the recapitalisation of banks, on the adventure of the funds of the Mechanics Recipes Fund. Mr Spirtzis, as the critical President of the Chamber of Technical Chamber, knows too much. It has been associated with many of the options of the Attica Bank, and of course it should give us answers. I was mentioned not only in my parliamentary capacity but also as a member of the TEI and TSMEDIE I think I am expressing the anger and anger of all colleagues in both the Chamber and outside. Unfortunately, you're reproducing the old one. You are allegedly reducing unemployment, according to ELSTAT's recent figures. But at a closer look beyond the triumphs, what you are actually doing is to force the ineffective and disreputable public with the recruitment of your own children, unfortunately, it seems, and in an irrational manner. There were twenty-seven thousand seven hundred public recruitments between June 2015 and June 2016. It is almost half a billion the cost of maintaining this, unfortunately, a party army. Otherwise, to have a comparison measure, it is the half CSCE cut off by the small pensioners. It should be said that the reduction of unemployment is of course a precedent for the reduction of possibly some pensions. But is that so? Where exactly do they work? What work do they produce? Why were they hired? What are the standing needs of the state machine, the ones they serve? Have there been contours of positions which would ensure the qualitative upgrading of the Greek public administration, in order to make it a lever for growth? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you could indeed have brought the new one. Go, choose to continue the logic and tactics of the past. He needs courage. It takes courage to separate the ideoleptic 'horses' that have brought him to power and to adopt the rhetoric of the right speech and reality, which are goods in short, which today characterise our political life. Once again, just before the whistle, we will run to close the prerequisites for the evaluation. Again the suffering of the drop, which at the last minute we expect to be completed with a magic hand in hope, so that on 29 September, five days later, in the Euroworking Group, we will be in line with our obligations. With regard to the bill, which we are of course voting in favour and which settles a space, an issue would of course have been much more efficient, Mr Minister, if it had actually been 'walk' the great loose ends, of course, which are not due only to you - you are bored in these two years - in the case of forest maps, in the case of forest land registers, which are crucial to many other sectors and, of course, to the environment and to a sensitive part of it that forests are. I and our party think that the required number of members is almost dissuasive, it is forbidden for certain regions. Maybe we should see it again at least at the last minute. The requirement of twenty-one members may not help to promote the idea and practice of cooperatives. I imagine that even at the beginning of the implementation of the institution, a smaller number would help to have cooperatives, which would be a good example, that is to say, the smaller ones, in the case of those who still have great doubts. In relation to the amendment you tabled, Minister, on the creation of waste transhipment stations in forest areas, grazing areas or other public areas in Crete and Evia, which were the two islands excluded from the previous relevant regulation, to which all the small islands had been subject, we have no objection. But perhaps we would like some explanation, because you think it is appropriate to extend this possibility to the large islands, to the large regions, which are able to find other places. In Crete, of course, as far as I know, because there is a road to waste management, and we do not seem to have a particularly strong demand for such sites, I imagine that there will be no need to create a placement of transhipment stations in forest areas. But we would like an interpretation. For ELGA, the amendment tabled on several occasions by the Democratic Compact is an amendment, which I think we all support because it is rational. This amendment does not bring about a budgetary burden. It is financially neutral, because the ELGA is self-financed. I do not know whether Mr Chakalotos has correctly interpreted this in the institutions, and I do not know whether there is a clear conception of the institutions, which raise a question of accepting this amendment from the Minister's interpretation. However, I think that in order for ELGA to be able to give the work it is called upon to do, and in relation to all the weather and disasters which have recently become dense, it should have resolved this issue of its rationality. If this is not solved, it certainly cannot carry out the work, which is burdensome. Speaking of ELGA, I do not miss the opportunity to say that the ministry should see the remodelling and modernising of the regulation again, because the regulation is obsolete, it does not cover much, from the problems that farmers, farmers and farmers face today. A lot of new topics and some branches, such as the beekeeper, are completely outside the protections of ELGA. That is why the ELGA regulation needs to be updated quickly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by mentioning a short two-day delay, because I have not been able to place myself earlier as a Parliamentary representative on another anniversary, beyond the one with which my speech began, which is unfortunately distant and forgotten by many: The morning of September 19, 1970, he poured himself into the main square of Genoa, in Mateti Square, the twenty-two-two-year-old Corfu Geology student Costas Georgakis. He gave his life to awaken consciences in Europe, but also in our country against the junta, even in the darkest years of the junta, in its heart, in 1970. "I can't do any differently than think and act like a free person," he wrote just before putting an end to his life. He was a real hero and the few real heroes of democracy. Those who hurt democracy are even burning up for their ideas and ideals, but they obviously do not think of burning their people. On the occasion of the postponement of the Marfin trial, which began by touching the limits of the veto, we should all agree without stars and without footnotes. Marfin's tragedy was not the result of a struggle for democracy, for its ideals, for our rampant national dignity, because of the memorial imposed on us by our 'bad partners'. It was the expression of a brutal, enthusiastic and irrational fantasy, that this is how the so-called enemies of democracy are being beaten and they do not have any discounts, especially in our day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u199	Thank you. Mr Balommenakis has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u200	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Although I do not come from a region without forests and therefore also forest cooperatives, I think I can appreciate as a citizen and refer to the positive aspects of the draft legislation under discussion as a necessary, mature and sound modernist regulation which is even a long-standing one. It is a regulation which, having been correctly monitored - and here of course, there is a need to restructure and strengthen forest services of all kinds - and also since it is not undermined by the well-known 'Greek demonium' and does not go into situations of self-interest and peculiarity, such as those which we have learned here that they were with family-type business patterns that had clothed the cooperative cloak, many can offer and deliver to both the economy and as a desirable parallel consequence of the protection of forest capital and sustainability. In their new form, forest cooperatives create in essence a new environment. The provisions of this bill reflect, ladies and gentlemen, the government's firm policy on the methodological enhancement of the country's productive potential, the stimulus of cooperative schemes and the assistance of small and medium-sized enterprises, hence the provisions on the exclusive participation of forest workers in forestry cooperatives, namely those who work and live from their every kind of work in forestry systems, whose status and criteria for their classification and residence in the industry, I think they are sufficiently and clearly defined. A number of colleagues, and also indirectly from the Scientific Committee, expressed reservations about Article 6, and particularly the point where the wood traders and their spouses are imported into the forestry cooperative. As far as I understand it, the reservation is based on the general principle of Article 5 of the Constitution, which actually guarantees the free development of the individual's personality, including freedom of economic action. It therefore says that it is not possible or tolerable to put obstacles of this kind in place, such as the ban on participation in forest cooperatives. I believe that this negative crisis is not correct and I would remind you of the provisions of Articles 12 and 106 of the Constitution. The first, refers to the obligation of the State to defend and strengthen the specific nature of cooperative schemes against the risks of alteration and undermining their purely cooperative character. The second, that of Article 106 of the Constitution in paragraph 2, refers to the obligation of the State to ensure the harmonious functioning of the entire economic activity, which must be treated as a whole. On the basis of this provision of Article 106, it has been stated several times that the State has the power to intervene in the sphere of individual, economic rights. It is - if you like - that provision that we are already dealing with here at times, the cornerstone of the State's regulatory intervention, an impediment to unregulated economic liberalism, which leads to the immunity of the individual and per area of power. I would also like to refer to the provision of Article 51 of this draft law, because those who practice the profession of lawyer or those who deal with economic matters relating to the liquidation of bankruptcy property before and above all after the indictment of the judicial decision know that, despite the 2007 reform with Law 3588, the procedures are currently completely unreliable, slow, many times incomplete, in the sense that they are stopping in the middle without substantial control of their course and that they are leaving themselves exposed to corruption, in the wear of time important means of production and infrastructure. [[The first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, takes over the President's seat.]] As we see, reference is made to the adoption of Presidential Decrees, the definition of the procedure for setting up insolvency administrators' registers, their conditions and criteria for their appointment, their obligations and the way in which they exercise their legal duties. The time that will take place must be used to develop a dialogue with the legal world in particular. In my opinion, it goes without saying that we should prefer this profession to the lawyers. It is not a syndicate concept, but it is the product of a reflection at the core of which the mere thought is that to deal with complex issues, which the insolvency administrator must solve, legal knowledge is absolutely necessary. Otherwise, bankruptcy will be excessively burdened by the recruitment of legal advisers. Mr President, I am going to take advantage of the last part of the time available to me to address both the issue of days and the parafiscality of television licences and so-called scandals in this respect. I like, first of all - and I have been amazed at it - the certainty with which many colleagues give their opinions at every opportunity on unconstitutionality of the law before the Council of State. It is perfectly understandable, but also anticipated, the intensity of the war against the new one that the competition marked. We are now seeing new purposes - which now include those who have participated and been declared successful - to be mixed with a battle of retreats, which have since the beginning given the impregnable private interests for decades, the interests which have been blemished by a public good, that of television frequencies in cooperation with those political forces which have been protected for years. In other words, the only answer to the parafiscality of days is the very text of the law, the provisions of which have been observed, respected and respected respectably, as well as the channelling, as well as the long-term loan press and politicians desperately fighting not to vote. It is the law, ladies and gentlemen, which defines the control of the origin of each participant's money. It is the law that defines what will happen if even a successful tenderer fails to pay or cannot justify the origin of his money on the basis of the existing legislation. Simple as that! All the rest are over-simplifications and populism. A few days of patience, therefore, is to be completed, as laid down in the law as the time limit for payment of financial obligations. Mostly we need to see if interested parties are making good objections. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, thank you, I'll be done in a minute. Until then it will be good to take the following three things into account: The most'serious' - in introductory, of course - and incomplete attempts to undermine this successful tenderer was made by a newspaper attempting to link it to criminal activity. Those who wrote it had read the law, because that's the only condition. I'm afraid everyone else hadn't read it or burned to ignore him. The second thing we need to take into account is the fact that the relationship of borrower with lender is bilateral and strictly subject to supervision of the Bank of Greece. So those who are unfounded attempting to engage in government operations in a private bank lending agreement, let them address their favorite child, Mr Stournara, and his mechanisms, but also in the administration of the bank that was not designated, as you know, at that time by SYRIZA. Third and last. I would ask everyone to take into account the sober and, as always, a multi-level position of the Vice-President of the Government, concerning the possibility of conscious undermining this non-systemic one, I would remind the bank, which, if any, is at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Balomannakis. Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u202	Thank you. Only for this bill I have not heard much or heard very little, and I cannot resist the temptation to say certain things, since I have to say what I have to say about the bill, because I think it is an obligation in this Chamber, the topicality is a first issue. I'm not complaining, that's why things are coming other than the bill. I just want to say that the bill is a positive step and rightly has the consent of the parties. It's a big deal about the ecology and the destruction of the planet. In fact, tomorrow, the Greens have a conference in which I have the honour of having been called and I will be present, because I believe that the damage to the environment is the tangible proof of where we are coming from, when market laws prevail, rather than society. I can summarise this and close it quickly. Very soon there will be no forests. We are now talking about something that we consider to be a given. It's not a given at all. The global warming, the ozone hole, all this cycle, which has been disturbed by our own interventions, by market laws, will sooner or later leave us without forests. The tree will see it in pictures of how it existed. I'm not in danger. I think it is a big issue, which is also tangible proof that we should focus on this problem. You tell me we're a small country and what we can do. A few things, but I think we can. But I want to concentrate on the issues of the days. Let me remind you this: it is now or will be certain - if you will excuse me, I am exposing myself - that the second assessment will end. 2.8 billion will go into the Greek Treasury and 1.7 will go to the market. By the end of the year, the 5.4 billion to be put into the market will be supplemented and I think a lot will be changed. The difficult issue of putting the debt on the table, I believe that this government is struggling with fingernails and teeth and I want to believe that this will also have a positive conclusion, because it is a strong signal to the markets. Draghi and with his speech, he misunderstood us all, because he's a man of the banks. He talked about a society in Europe and that if we do not change and if we do not give another perspective to the European Union, it will be dissolved. He expects to put us in QE too, in quantitative relaxation that is a very strong signal to the markets. All this is a good chance, not to say for sure, that government can do it. Then we all know that growth doesn't come with spells, comes with investments. I was pleased to hear that, instead of thirty-three signatures and two, three months, a business is being set up within one day, the announcement by Mr Stathakis, who 'douches'. I am saying this because, at the same time, we are seeing an unexplained precursor and movement from some canals, some entrepreneurs - and I am sorry to say it - and some of their expressions in this Greek Parliament, with incredible characterisations, with a lyric response to undermine this effort. I have listened with great respect and attention to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi. I would like here to say two words and to remind you - without having anything with the central banker, whom I respect, and I believe he is obliged to do his job well - that his wife had not been controlled for many years. Checked for the first time. I would also like to remind you that at the door Mr Mandeli's trial is to justify the way in which he was financed by SIEMENS. I would like to remind you that at the door is the postal savings bank trial. The presumption of innocence, first of all, exists for everyone and I wish it for them, but they are also intrigued by Mr Laurentiades and the Grivela family and Mr Kontomenas. I would also like to remind you of the 'ENERGA' case. Some "children" who have unreservedly spent the charm of the Greeks and who were against eleven million Greeks, are finally in trial. I would also remind you that the first advocate of 'ENERGA', while he was a parliamentary representative, was Mr Makis Vorides, who gives us lessons of democracy. He didn't do anything illegal to be explained. It's under the constitution. It's a matter of moral order. Then, I think, Samaras himself made him quit. I would also like to remind you that the translation of the 'SIEMENS' has been given and the trial, which in a devastating way has been delayed, will begin. There has now become the great "goats". I could talk until tomorrow about what this government really does for the first time. Whether or not it hits the tax evasion, for the revenue we have seen for the first time on the islands and everywhere, for the surplus we have all seen. We heard voices of exaggeration of cutting power in the first year. They all know that the surplus will be much greater than 0.5%. They all know that next year it will go better. I see a rampant reaction, disproportionate to what the government does, a government that, for the first time, meets the President of China at high prices, twice Putin, and that Obama holds it for two hours, and that goes to the UN as well. Five billion euros have been returned to the banks. Unemployment is cowardly but steadily falling. I see a disproportionate climate, which reminds me of other times, the times when people dragged to the court by Andreas Papandreou - then there were no televisions - because they saw their privileges being affected. Shortly thereafter a particular canalarch even put a bet and threw the government of Constantine Mitsotakis. Other Prime Ministers were shortly followed. Some people with a closed circuit purely exo-institutional were raising not only the compositions of the Ministerial Shields but also Prime Ministers normally. I don't want to remind you of the facts because they're handcuffed. For the first time, the attempt - which in my opinion has been delayed - has been made in a disgusting manner. Because, you know, the one who got the first channel is the greatest persecutor. This is how the rules of democracy are, and very well he did and took leave of SKAI. That's right. No one questioned the procedure. But the parties here in this House are questioning it. Why is that? What for? I want here to catch a little bit of a post that's made a great impression on me. Mrs Fofi Gennimata - I was honoring her father - turned around and said 'SYRIZA BANK AND SYRIZA CHANNEL'. It made me a great impression. The PASOK Chief forgets a lot about it, and I want to remind her of it. President, first of all at ATTICA BANK for six years was Yiannis Gabrielis, appointed in 2010. He left his position in June 2016. I would like to remind you that Anna Pouskouri proposed by Mr Stournara, if I recall, was denounced by the newspaper "The AUGI", because she had forgotten a "red" loan she had and renounced. I still want to remind you that CEO has been Gikas Manalanis for quite a long time. It's a name you have to remember. He did all the process of shutting down ERT. In fact, it also went through an amendment to Parliament's plenary to exempt any criminal offence that workers would claim later. The system child was completely protected. In fact, this particular gentleman, the CEO of the Bank of Attica, hired Panagiotis Mussa as his right hand. He's already in custody, and I found out his custody was extended for another six months. He is the man who created the profile of the spokesperson of the New Democracy, Mr. Kumoutsaku. He was advising him what to do. Who did the late Maurikos and Mussa relate to, all of Greece knows about it. I would also like to remind you - in particular with regard to the extreme expression 'SYRIZA - BANK' and 'SYRIZA - CHANNEL' - that on the board of directors of this bank for many years was Mr Selianakis, Mrs Zwegoli and another gentleman who was Director of Mr Venizelos's Politburo, Mr Goulas. I still want to remind you of the name Nikos Bakcelos. I don't know if it's related to the Bacacelu family. He was on the board too. I would also like to remind you that the next Managing Director, Mr Antonopoulos, who was reputable, had no objection - when he spoke to the Committee of Inquiry in this House, was the man who revealed that the parties of the New Democracy and of PASOK did not fulfil their obligations and had no guarantee, not only those that would receive from sponsorships. He also revealed that the media owes more than 10-12 million euros credit and unscrupulously over EUR 10-12 million. I'm saying that because the lie has short feet. I would also like to remind you, because this is a topical issue, and there is an incredible noise which does not really have the dimensions that they give him, that the man who guaranteed Mr Kalogritsa, Mr Karabatsos, had an area of five thousand acres. Now we find out that he had 5% construction, four kilometers of access, etc. In fact, the lawyer, Mr. Kyriikopoulou, who represented an incredible 'fund' three years ago, was negotiating there to make large tourist facilities. Newspapers that today see in other light the truth, such as the "ELEEROS TYPOS", "KATHMERINI", "NAYTTERVORIC", "NATIONOS", wrote other things and biconvexes about the investment made in Ithaca and will lift the island up high. This man, after hearing that he trespassed, stole or heard about the dead - in general he heard it all - saw the terrible post of "FOTHER TYPE" that he owes 1,800,000 euros and is therefore not entitled, it is not his property, but it belongs to the bank and that it has become more illegal. Yesterday, Mr Pantalakis and Mr Romulatis calm people I respect - and in general I believe that there should be no noise behind any bank, but unfortunately it is the choice of "land fire" by some people here in this Chamber - that Mr Karabatsou's loans are normally served, he owes about a million, he is a zero dose and interest rates. What other answer to give? The tab is specific. I'm saying that because there's been an awful lot of noise for a certain businessman. I join the position of Prime Minister and Mr Spirtzi. If that businessman is, in fact, in breach of the rules of legality, then he will not be allowed to take a leave. It's over and out. Dependents don't exist. But there is one difference. They're all down on that businessman. Why? They believed that if they rushed to the Attica Bank, if this businessman departs, something will happen to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. So I am telling you straight away, because it sounds like this, that we Independent Greeks are more tied up at the moment when an incredibly dirty and unjust war is taking place, which is not documented by anywhere and by nothing, but by gossip and nonsense. I want to end by reminding you that we didn't get into this House to get rich. I can't afford to give 17,000 euros a month to advertise my story. There are too many Members like me. Something's changing in this country and it's going to change definitively. Let some decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr. Yannis Theonas has the floor for seven minutes. Then the last parliamentary representative, Mr. Karras, will speak. Here, Mr. Theonas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like you to allow me, because many times I have commented negatively on the quality of the political speech expressed in Parliament, to express my satisfaction today, because not only in the debate on this bill, this has not only been confirmed, but the climate that prevailed, shows the way in which the House must follow, all Parliament's forces can reach an agreement on the main problems that they have to resolve through the vote on concrete drafts. I think this will be much better for both Parliament's prestige and for the country and for the people, because better decisions will always be made than when conflict and blows are underneath the zone. However, I would like to say that while the debate on this bill started so well in the morning, there have been various, let us say attacks. Some colleagues have remembered their previous self and made some attacks that were excessive. I would like to stand up and comment a little on the inappropriate attack made on SYRIZA by my friend and forgiveness, Parliamentary spokesman for the New Democracy Giannis Vroutzis. He reported that SYRIZA broke AKE, the account, the fund that has been set up to cover the new generation when it will have to receive pensions, receive compensation, etc., so that there is money to pay the new generation. But I'd like to remind my friend Yannis that the new generation of others stole it. In 1992, there was an extensive reform of the country's insurance system. Law 1902 passed a number of measures. I will now remind you in the brief time I have, that the insured were divided into various groups. There was a grouping: those who entered insurance before '83, those who entered after '83 but before '92 and those who entered insurance since '92. That was the youth, which then did not have immediate expectations of retirement, because it entered insurance only in '92. What happened then? One night a hajara was taken, and he cut 25% of any pensions that this new generation would get in the next and subsequent years. Within one night the rate of the main pensions was reduced from 80% to 60%. This is a horizontal reduction in the pensions of the new generation by 25%. These were made by the government of Constantine Mitsotakis, by the law that started as the law Sufflia and ended up as the law Sifa. He said no word about it, my friend Yannis, but today he dealt with the fact that SYRIZA, as he said, broke AKAGE. I would therefore like to ask him not to worry so much, because the ACEE has not broken. First of all, ACAGE operates in a way of contributing. In other words, if the GFCM needs to receive a sum of money to finance an objective, it is done as a contribution, which will be returned as soon as possible. I, at least, who since February 2015 have been in command of the IKA, so I know that the AKA's account was also being used. This to reverse the allegations of “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”, which she found every time that this month pensions would not be paid to Greece and thus started an orchestra of the channels. They were after me by all the bands to ask me if the pensions would be paid, and I told them they'd be paid. I did tell them that pensions would be paid whole and, at the time that they were intended to be the money in the central store that the banks had built. From there they were distributed by DIA to the branches of the banks that the insured had declared they wanted to enter their money. So, to close this story, I would like to say that two were the key factors that contributed to the funds being able to fulfil their obligations towards pensioners by normally paying pensions on time. These two factors were, firstly, the imposition of the tripartite financing of the insurance pensions sector. This was imposed with the struggle of the workers at the same time as this reform of the insurance system. That's when we made strikes so that this reform doesn't pass, but it's over. So we turned and instead of fighting something that could not be cancelled, we asked - because in 1953 the social security reserves were looted - to contribute the state and to vote, to accept the tripartite funding. This means paying the state through the budget 1/3 of the workers' social security contributions. So that was the one factor. These - which are today - were EUR 280 million every month, of which pensions had to be paid. The second factor was also that of adjusting the hundreds of doses. In fact, some have ruined the world by insisting on being abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I should like to say today - because, in fact, the President is right to complain - that they must come back. Because the hundred-dollar regulation gave and gave deep breath to both the funds and the debtors. Because a debtor always wants to give him a way to fulfill his debt without being destroyed, but he can pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Theonas, please complete your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u206	That's what I think can happen again. I therefore call on the appropriate ministers to reset the hundreds of doses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Theonas. Last speaker before the rapporteurs' denology is Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Union. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. So in the midst of calm in the Chamber and after confrontation and confrontation have been made, I will make my comments as well. I shall start by saying that the legislative work, each piece of legislation introduced into the House, reflects either the population as a whole or a large part of the population. Today, then, we have a bill for forest cooperatives. Forgers are a part of the population, which must also be supported and dealt with and their position improved so that we can make forests more productive through foresters and maintain the balance of the environment. I have little heard of these critical issues. I have, of course, heard about the AAGE, a very serious issue, and I have heard about the pastures of Ithaca, a lot of discussion about whether they are grassland or not. Of course, the question is whether on Monday 80 million will be submitted by canalarchs or involved. I'm going further. I heard the New Democracy, I heard the Democratic Alliance, I heard SYRIZA, who did it better, who was to blame, because, who was to blame, when. So I will say this: this moves the question of the legislative work of the House, which I consider to be the most serious, in parliamentary control. Because confrontation on issues that are not dealt with in the draft legislation is a parliamentary control. The Rules of Procedure, however, allow parliamentary scrutiny and the Constitution also provides for questions, topical questions, extended topical questions, at Heads of State or Government level, to be discussed on the agenda. I am a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I will also propose once a week that a broader debate be held on topical issues, because today we have debated topical issues. We didn't discuss a bill of forest cooperatives. If you want, Minister, to be precise, we've discussed very little in relation to the bill. This reduces legislative work, because it restricts dialogue within the House. Unfortunately, in my brief term of office within this House, I have seen that many times my will or my attempt to improve a legislative text on the whole, or on the good of a large part of the population, is being pushed back because the time of discussion is limited to one sitting and the debate is changing who is smarter than the other. I do not think, therefore, that we are helping ourselves here in this Chamber with these positions. But I do not want to say any more on this point, because I am sure that the phenomenon will be repeated next Monday, more and more on the day when the plan comes. It will be repeated on Tuesday and resumed in the adjournment. So my little solitary voice should not tire the few colleagues who are in the Chamber. So let's go see some parts of the bill, because I'm last of the speakers. The speakers will follow their remarks. I read the bill. I know about cooperatives. I believe that always a bill for cooperatives is good, and that is relatively good, because it relates to issues relating to the natural environment, without being able to abandon the fact that people have to coexist with the environment and we should not forget that human interventions in the environment, have brought about a reversal of nature to a great extent and it is very difficult to overturn the consequences. So I see that this bill is coming. First observation. Number twenty-one as a minimum number of members I have to tell you that I am in agreement. Why would I say that? So that we don't have a split-up of the number of miners. To be able collectively to work, otherwise personal ambitions will begin. Let us not forget the prehistory of all forms of cooperatives that have resulted in bankruptcies among cooperatives, but in the enrichment of some cooperatives. We must not forget that, we must have it before the eyes. So the number twenty-one, even though historically number seven, tells me that it is not wrong for that number to enter so that collectively work together, so that great ambitions are not born and that internal control by the largest number is also present. Why don't we hide, as few as we are, they're falling down and they're redealing. If we're few, we're in a good mood. If we're too many, it's harder. Now on the subject of relatives who are first-degree spouses. He says that if one is a logger, he can't be a member of a forest labour cooperative. It has a question of constitutionality. It will not overturn the bill, of course, will be dealt with later by the courts in the future, with the promotion of a claim that it affects economic freedom, offends the self-interest of the property of the spouses, offends personality. Let others find them. We won't find them in this Chamber. What concerns me about the forestry provisions of the bill is that it refers to ensuring the employment scope of the cooperatives-forgers. It is therefore a question of tripling responsibility. Since we are talking about cooperatives, of course, we are talking about a small part of cooperatives, at least EUR 200. Why triple individual responsibility over third parties in times of crisis, and we take it to three times and look after ourselves and say, 'yes, the statute can put multiples or more of a triple'? Cooperatives have a form of work, it's work-intensive. We cannot make the cooperative a capital intensive company, because it does not in fact have high capital, it has a small cooperative share. I think, Minister, that if we make the responsibility of third parties for the obligations in the cooperative with the value of the part of the cooperative, we can help them at this point at the beginning, since the forced cooperatives with the same law are maintained - it will not change their status, as was the case - and we are obviously talking about new voluntary cooperatives. Since no one can be forced to become a member of a cooperative, they are voluntary, they are not mandatory. It's a point I'd like you to see. A second point is the rights that the cooperatives will have. The plan, however, also extends to an amendment to the Forests Code in matters of small societies. I'll be clearer immediately. So we say: What kind of work will forest cooperatives have first? Public forests. Public forests will be allocated to the cooperatives, so that they can work on shaves, cleansing, rhetoric. It's a big deal of resination. There's no more. We may in theory mention that we have shallow forests and we have a special charge. Both in Attica and in Corinthia - friend Giorgos Amyras you know them - and in Thebes the root forests, a particular category of forests we have not yet faced, in principle, are considered private. However, forest rhining does not exist, because resin has been replaced by imported chemicals, starting from the 18th, 19th century with the famous rosary. It wasn't a resin derivative, it was a chemical compound. We don't have rhein forests. It has a provision here that private forests, if they have been abandoned for twenty years - and here it mentions the ones that are not called - will take over, it says the public, the forest service to make available them to the cooperatives. Well, I hear that, but what's he going to make? Because at this point there will also be involvement with the owners. The owners of the ground forests, the pine forests, have had concessions since 1923. There will be a involvement with them because they will want themselves to be able to exploit it or not, but they will not want a forced form of rental. This is a forced form of rental, which reminds us of the 1950 rent room, 1952. It was a pasture rental - the Ministry of Rural Development is aware of this - which forced the admission of flocks or the admission of forest workers into means, but under different economic conditions and under a completely different constitution. We are not going to resolve this today, just to observe it as a matter of the bill. Moving forward, we have an observation to make. Reintroduces the right of burnt-down, the branching of Article 138 of the Forest Code and replaces a paragraph. You say there, however, something you must not say. You need to erase it. You say that the price, the beneficiaries and the supporting documents will be determined by decisions of the Minister for the Environment and Energy. So, for the grandmother who's staying in the village and carrying the branches on her back to warm up, after your decision, will the master have the right to go and cost these? You need to restore the free right to branch and burn for two reasons: The burning of fires allows us to have warmth. Let me not recall the allowance for the heating of frontier areas and the Minister who distributed it as an allowance for the officials of his Ministry. I imagine that today at least it has been abolished because, if there is still one, it will be a new scandal. Your ministry was the heating allowance, Minister. I'm not saying this for you, Mr. Cironi. So don't remember that. So let the elderly inhabitant have the burn and the branchage free of charge. What's a branch? Cut two sticks and feed the goat. Let's not charge people at this point. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude with your tolerance, Mr President, by speaking on the amendments. I have not seen any worse amendment than the one concerning the Council of State, the right to be appointed graduates of the School of Judicial Officers in excess of the Minister. This is where I am absolute. First of all, the number is decided upon and recommended to the Minister the administration of the Supreme Courts. This amendment does not have such a prior decision. Secondly, this amendment was introduced to the Committee on Production and Trade, it concerns matters of justice regulation and is also accepted by the Minister for the Environment. If it were a joint meeting between the two Committees on Justice and Production and Trade, I would not have discussed it. But this is a matter which now relates to and offends the self-interest and independence of the courts. I haven't been able to speak with the judiciary. If I had spoken, I would have put a lot of arguments in this direction. I did not even want to talk about it because it was something serious for Parliament that should not be made more public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u209	Please complete your speech, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u210	On the subject of IPTO what can I say? It's coming on Monday, a multi-project. We'll also discuss energy issues. That's where we should see everything together. Today, with this fragmentary arrangement, we cannot discuss any more. Mr President, you can understand that we are voting in favour of the bill in principle. We are also voting in favour of many articles, but we will vote against them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr. Carras. I would ask the rapporteurs and the special speakers to give a brief answer. Mrs. Igleze, do you get four minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u212	Two minutes is enough for me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u213	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much. It is very pleasant today that this draft law, which deals with the sound and sustainable management of woodlands, is accepted by the House by a large majority. So I don't have much to say about the bill. What I had to say in my prototype. I just want to say something that impressed me. I was impressed by her position as a double colleague of mine, Mrs Antoniou, who I believe has made an acute criticism of her proposition. I say this because he is surely aware that the understood and depreciation of the Forest Service has taken place over the last thirty years and not in the last one and a half years that we have SYRIZA - ANEL government. Neither SYRIZA nor the ANELs ruled nor was the Minister for Economist Yiannis Tsironis these years. In fact, in times of arable assignments to the public, the Forest Service was being succumbing, deported and discredited for just one reason, because it was the embezzlement of the robbery plans for the exploitation of forests by specific interests. As far as the management studies are concerned, in the Arnaia Forestry, where I worked, the latter were drawn up in 1994. Since then, two more had to be written. I do not think that this is why the current Ministry of the Environment and Mr Chironis should be responsible. The fact is that today's bill is a positive step - I said it before - in terms of sustainable forest management. But from now on, further steps must be taken and one of them is the financing of management studies, and management studies must finally be drawn up. It is also the verticaling and proper staffing of the forestry service, the creation of a single body for the preservation and protection of the terrestrial environment, so that we can speak from now on, indeed, about the sustainable management of the Greek forests and the exploitation of this important natural wealth of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mrs Catherine Iglezi, SYRIZA rapporteur. Mr Panagiotis Metarakis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I pointed out in my report, we voted in favour of the draft law. We consider it to be a bill dealing, as a general rule, with administrative issues for the operation of forest cooperatives, which can indeed play an important role in protecting our forest wealth. However, it is not a bill full, it does not cover the main issues, which are exactly how we can make better use of, in the public interest, our forest wealth. And I believe that the Ministry should come back with a more thorough and deeper legislative initiative. We have also raised some objections, some reservations. We still expect to hear - of course the Minister has not spoken - how he will comment on what we said in our prototypes. I would also like to point out - and I will end by saying this - that we still consider it appropriate for Parliament to withdraw Rule 54, which concerns the privatisation of IPTO, because it concerns prerequisites. Tomorrow there will be a special debate, a bill, for the prerequisites. As far as I understand it is, they are moving forward. It will be Mr Skourletis, who is the instigated Minister, and I think it is appropriate that this article should also be taken by Mr Skourletis, and that Mr Skourletis be present at the National Representation, in full, of the government's strategy for the energy sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u217	Thank you to Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, rapporteur of the New Democracy. The special speaker, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, has the floor. And you'll be short, I guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. I might need a minute more. Tell us, at last, Minister, and you and your co-government, and everyone here, in this Chamber, beyond the ecological conscience you all have, that you have a human conscience, by proving what you are saying, that you are exercising, apart from social policy and pluralist policy, even in the long run, accepting the amendment - an addition that we have tabled as Golden Dawn by a general number of 683 and a special 70. If it is not accepted, Minister, we will simply inform you that we will present it at every opportunity until it is accepted. I shall also put it in the Minutes to inform the House and to be able to monitor it. I believe, however, that it is appropriate, Minister, to inform the House of the content of the amendment - an addition which we have tabled: 'Theme: Priority for borrowers and guarantors in the redemption of their loans against foreign funds'. Four requests from equal companies have already been submitted to the Bank of Greece in order to obtain permission to manage claims from loans and credits, namely, the management of red loans from households and small businesses. With the completion of the licensing process, non-performing, but also serviced loans, they will pass into the hands of speculators, the well-known funds, which operate on purely financial, profitable criteria, without any social sensitivity. If we take into account, Minister, that at the moment in Greece we have one million two thousand Greeks with red loans, we have one million two hundred thousand Greeks with served loans - many of which are potentially red - and so many other guarantors, then we are talking about nearly five million Greeks, and the cohesion of our country's social fabric is therefore at stake. Therefore, the transfer of loans is made against a very low price and without the payment of taxes and charges, at the time when they are charged off-the-spot taxes on Greeks. For example, Minister, in other countries the sale of these loans took place at unprecedentedly low prices. In Romania, 6% to 10% of their nominal value were sold, in Hungary, red consumers were sold at 12% -15% of their value, in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, compared with 19% -21%, while in Poland consumer loans were sold between 11% and 14% of their nominal value and business loans against 6% and 10% of their nominal value. It is an obligation, Minister, to legislate in favour of borrowers and guarantors to submit a proposal to buy the loans before they are sold. In such a case, the bank achieves exactly what it would achieve and its conciliation with the speculative fund, i.e. the collection of the same amount of money. Her faith is not shattered, because she will carry out an institutionalised obligation. Any dispersion of the moral risk for those loans of consistent borrowers may be avoided by a significant epilocal relief that the state can also establish. Recently - and I shall end shortly, Mr President - in October 2015 it was legislated in Cyprus, during the eighth evaluation, and while it had not left the memorandum, the possibility for the borrower and the guarantor within forty-five days to submit a proposal to the bank for the acquisition of his loan. The Greeks, Mr Minister - and this is a reality - do not want to avoid paying off their debt obligations. Maximum evidence that non-performing loans amounted to 4.6% in 2007. Today, they amount to 53% and this is exclusively because of the unprecedented size and duration of the Greek economy. They are unable to meet their credit obligations because of the violent decline in their incomes, unemployment, the multiple unstable tax burdens and the large volume of bankrupt enterprises officially and unofficially. I will not get too tired of you, but you should simply bear in mind that our proposal to add - an amendment to Article 51 - should be accepted, Minister, because it will reduce a very large proportion of Greek citizens. It should be possible to manage access as the borrower feels appropriate and if within forty-five days there is no interest in the borrower, then the sale will continue to take place in some other companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u219	Thank you. We are moving on to Mr Michael Jelloney, a special speaker of the PASOK-DEMAR Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Since we are discussing the bill on forest cooperatives and other provisions, my position, as rapporteur for the Democratic Partnership, has been in the direction of modernising and making an institutional social, developmental and economicly useful tool, developmental for the Greek region and for the Greek foresters. Unfortunately, the Minister seems to be unable to withstand the political criticism, which is why we have seen him with arrogant and state-of-the-art behaviour to encourage us to vote against the bill. I stressed both the committees and the Step of the House in my protagonist that we are voting on the bill at first, although we say it is a bad stitch of previous laws and will not help to modernise a institution that is necessary today for the Greek region, especially for the sustainable development of forests, for Greek forests. I sincerely hope that our fears and concerns are not confirmed, because we do not learn. We do not see what happened today and the cooperative movement has been denounced to Greek farmers, where one of the main causes was the tight state hug, which acted as a belt to transfer orders - bad orders - in terms of the operation of cooperatives. And today we have a bill here, which deals with a state-run concept, an institution such as cooperative, as a legal person governed by public law. In relation to the forest maps, we have said a lot. I accept that the Minister has understood that with Law 3889/2010 - where, in the midst of a crisis, thirty-seven million - something happened for twenty-two prefectures. He can't say that only 1% of the forest maps were mapped. It was for twenty-two prefectures, and he knows that very well. It's changed the way again. Then he took it from the real estate company, took it to the office where we have shortages of staff. We're waiting. We'll see the results. Everything is judged in practice. I would also like to point out, in relation to ELGA, an important amendment. At the moment, about seventy with eighty thousand Greek farmers have been waiting for estimates since March 2016. We have a September month and we have heard here that "you know the days of the outsiders from a hundred and fifty have become two hundred". No, it was a hundred eighty days, a hundred fifty plus thirty. It is not a question of how many days ELGA officials have been allowed out of the house. The issue is compensation for them and does not come out of ELGA, which had been solved in 2011, 2012, 2013, and the estimates were made at the time they had to. With the process and the time you have to deal with everyday life, you deceive ELGA in the eyes of farmers, farmers do not receive compensation at the time and there is really despair at the moment about how to assess the damages that were done in March, May, when we go to September, let's go to the end of the year and don't happen. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to point out that, while listening to the Parliamentary spokesman for the Independent Greeks, he should be allowed to place himself on the channels and especially on the pastures of Mr Kalogrisa, I should like to point out that it is important for him to ask his Chief in relation to what he has done through the social media with two tweets. On August 24th, he posted: “With the black money on the sites, the Kalogerica thinks he will press to get a channel?” And on September 17, six days ago, he wrote: "Gida resort by Karabatsos holdings". Ask him what he wanted to say. In conclusion, I would like to say that here we have heard from positions of co-chairmanship about the fact that there are foreign forces who want to drop the government and that everything is going well. They seem to have no sense of reality when recording public opinion today by 85% what they say Greek citizens is that they feel absolutely frustrated in relation to the September 2015 elections. And their attitude is reflected in the words'disappointment, anger, anger and distrust'. I would say that the caravan is on its way, but he lost his way, and the camels are not aware of it. When they see it, there will be no more return and it will already be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u221	We proceed with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. In the beginning, we consider that we should refer to what the Minister said to the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece. The Minister told us that he still has ecological sensitivities and that he is opposed to the installation of wind bridges on the ridges. Minister, if that's the case, why don't you bring a specific provision to the bill to ban the placing of wind turbines on the ridges? One thing is that. Because today, we have also told you in our prototype, these are delivered to three - four groups active in renewable energy sources. Our criticism was different. You didn't answer the main one. We specifically asked you whether they could coexist with the profits of the forested entrepreneurs along with forest cooperatives, forest workers, particularly those who fight for the cut. And why do we say that? What did you do to Article 50? You say it clearly. You say that if there is an investment interest in fast track procedures, all these licenses for tourist facilities, business parks, for storage of solid and liquid waste, for quarries, for mines and go saying. And forty-five days. We are also asking you another question here. Do you know, Minister, how long it takes today for farmers to obtain a certificate from the forests? Three years. Hey, tell us who you're serving now: the businessmen or the poor, medium-sized farmers and the foresters? As far as the amendments incorporated into articles of the bill are concerned, we are voting against the fact that you are creating a new position, that of the insolvency administrator, who is registered in the special register of the Ministry of Justice. This is a Memorandum of Understanding, it is in the prerequisites of the third Memorandum and it aims at the rapid, flexible liquidation of bankruptcy proceedings. In Article 52, which is Amendment 668, we are voting against why, in fact, the graduates of the National School of Judiciary are used in personal positions. You have a clear objective, no organic positions, rapporteurs in the Council of State. So, you're trying to cover these places with cheap and flexible staff. As far as Article 53 is concerned, we are voting against this because you are broadening the composition of the Board of Directors and putting a representative of non-governmental organisations with which we disagree vertically. Also, in paragraph 4 of that article, the Minister is given the opportunity to do what he wants for the composition of the Board of Directors. We are voting against Rule 54 for IPTO and PPC. Of course, 51% are also calling for businessmen and for PPC to play its role as regulator. Because this is the orientation, PPC itself is the strap, the vehicle to pass the energy to the business groups. As far as Article 55 is concerned, we are voting against it because you are promoting a number of regulations that are part of the liberalisation of the gas market. We are also voting against Article 56. And we ask you: Why are you now putting Crete and Evia? You have to give an answer. Are there any business interests asking to enter these forests to create in relation to the treatment of garbage and other issues? You have to give an answer. You have only accepted one amendment, the one of the SYRIZA Members, concerning foresters. We say clearly that since you have literally cut wages and allowances, you have carved these workers, you now have them involved in the committees. In our opinion, 30 silvers are. You seek to be supporters of the choices at the assembly of committees. Besides, whatever their composition, we have no illusions that they will implement governmental choices for forestry legislation, which is cut and sewn to serve businessmen's interests. As regards the amendment to the Democratic Reconciliation, we have said that we are in favour, although we disagree with the reasoning in the explanatory statement. Of course, we put it because it is timely and a number of topical questions have been raised today concerning compensation to thousands of poor farmers and farmers affected by the recent floods that have taken place in the past few years. In particular, we have a delay in our assessments here. Of course, what we are asking for and the workers are these movements to be launched in such a way that their work is efficient. In conclusion, Mr President, we would like to say what all the urban parties have put into the debate. It is enormously possible, the comparative advantages we have for forests. In particular, the government claims that deserted areas will be revived. And we ask: was your bill missing, Mr. Chironi, where this development was not? We are clearly saying that such a perspective stumbles on the capitalist way of production. And we believe that, in order to make use of the forests, there must be another policy that really serves the needs of the workers and the inhabitants of this region. The articles will then be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. The special speaker from Potami, George Amyras, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be brief. I won't need three minutes. I would say that we have had a constructive, substantial debate today in plenary. There were, of course, some differences, but I would say that it is rather a fact that today's sitting is different from most of the previous weeks and given the low intensity and the substantial debate. Forestry workers, forest cooperatives, forest wealth, forest production, forest goodwill, these are issues, not only for all political forces, but above all for the government - and we are here to strengthen it where it takes good steps - which must be made in Greece. So far they have been words, meaning empty content. The ecology in practice seems. Today is the world day without a car. I don't know how many of the three hundred we came on a bike and how many we came on foot. I guess most of us ignored today's celebration day. Nevertheless, Mr President, I believe that this time, first of all, God, we have a great increase in those Members who will come in an ecological, alternative way and not in a vehicle. To conclude, I should like to say that we are voting in favour of the draft law. We will say 'no' to Article 54 for IPTO. We believe that, as I said in my previous position, we should come to the debate on the prerequisites tomorrow so that there is a full and in-depth debate. And we will say'residents' in Article 52 on the possibility of appointing graduates of the National School of Judiciary Officers to individual positions of the Council of State. And I'll tell you the rest of the articles in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Lazarides is missing from the Independent Greeks. I don't know if you want to say anything, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u226	We are voting in favour of the bill. Whatever I had to say, I said it before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u227	It will be time for the vote shortly later. The special speaker, Mr Saridis, from the Centroon Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Today our subject was forest cooperatives, forest cooperatives and other provisions. On this point, the Centro Association is voting in favour of this draft law in principle. It calls for the withdrawal of Article 54 by the Minister for IPTO. Otherwise, if it does not withdraw it, the Central Association will vote against it, and it will also vote against the reasons which our Parliamentary representative referred to in Rule 52. There has been a lot of hearing today about the need to save our forests and with them to save our traditional villages. We have all identified the extent of the dynamics that forest cooperatives can give to GDP. It is all our responsibility and much more the government to give the local communities to understand the need to implement this bill. With great anxiety we expect the Forestry to be our side, we expect management plans as well as the register of foresters. There are a lot of things that need to be done. We will insist, however, on our side to hear it, that within our forests a great wealth is hidden, an equivalent that we are not asking anyone to approve. How many pensions has the government cut off for half of GDP? Think of the two units of GDP that hide in our forests! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr Saridis, special speaker of the Centroon Association. The meeting will be closed by the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. I imagine, Mr. Cironi, nine minutes is too long.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u231	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. [[To enter the text of the bill p. 435 a]] Ladies and gentlemen, I really think the climate today was generally good. Although Mr Brutsi spoke of a bad climate in the government, I would like to say that there is no bad climate in the government. The climate in the government is fine. Everyone, of course, sees it from their own perspective. He also said about polling that there is a collapse. I would remind him, however, that we had a collapse in the polls in the three elections. I wish we were constantly losing the polls and winning the elections! So, here, let's not try to shift the debate from where it is from. So let me start with some things I want to point out. First of all, I shall start with the amendments. I have committed myself, not that I will not bring any amendments, but that there will not be any amendments which will not be discussed in the committees. The amendments are also the right of Members. I won't change the Rules of Procedure. The fact that the parliamentary amendments do not go through the General Accounting Office of the State did not make it myself. This is the only amendment that I have accepted symptoms, that there should also be a forestry worker in the committees, I think it is not the budget at all, it does not have an economic object. I would also like to make it clear to the JRC's colleague that these committees are unpaid. They deal with the objections to forest maps. So it has nothing to do with whether it is the forester over there and with all that has been heard, that we are giving them thirty silvers, etc. That is not the case, because we are talking about civil servants who already have administrative positions. Now, if he or she is a forester, I don't think we need to talk about it. So I think that in the amendments we have complied with this good legislative practice. As far as the amendments to IPTO are concerned, I would like to say that Mr Skourletis can obviously judge - because he is the responsible person - whether it is better to discuss it with the prerequisites or whether it is not better. That doesn't change the substance. If this paragraph creates legal certainty, it is a good legislative practice. There will be a little improvement in what we have already voted on. It has nothing to do with IPTO, however, this paragraph, if you look at it with strict criteria. The same applies to Mr Paradise's amendment. It's specific. Three or two years ago - not in our day - I was informed that seven positions had been declared for the Council of State, as the amendment says. The vacancy was five. There have therefore been two people who have been selected since then - we have not chosen them - who are currently not in a vacant position. That's what this is about. So do not make the amendments to the hair. I am really glad that Mr Jellonis, as he expressed his reservations in his speech, covers a large gap. I have no mood for a Vendetta with the Democratic Partnership. It's just, when I called and said "do us a favor not to vote", it's what we used to say at school, if you remember, the offended kidnapping. Mr. Jellock said in his first speech that he was a state-run, anachronistic and useless bill. These three together, if we accept them as his logical proposal, obviously for a person with an elementary consequence of opinion and decision, they mean a vote. Why should we vote on one thing which is useless, which is the stitch of other laws that already exist, which is anachronistic and state-of-the-art? I, obviously, would not vote for this if I said that for a law. Another thing and completely different is - and I am, of course, glad you are voting on it - if you say that this thing is not enough or I reserve it, or that in future it will be proven if it solves problems and another thing that everything was excellent and not solved. The same applies, of course, to the other issue on which there is a barbarity. You spoke in your own position of postings. If we are talking about elaboration, in fact in Greece they had been drawn up around 50%, perhaps a little less, of the forest maps. The problem was that the maps drawn up were not considered or even those considered in 2002 were never posted and never ratified. The valid maps - take the data - are 1%, may be less than 1%, about 1%. This is our problem today, maps paid by the Greek people have been in drawers since 2002 some and never have these maps been ratified, never posted, never objected. These procedures were completely stuck for 50% of the maps prepared by Greek citizens and the ESRB. That's what we're going to do today. To settle arbitraryly within forest areas. We have not voted anywhere to settle arbitrarily within forest areas. Where there are urban settlements, which is a reality, if we want to continue to ostracize, our right. It is obvious that it is going to deal with this issue and simply to be fully documented. This issue needs to be resolved in the forest maps. Obviously, we need to be clear here at last if we see reality, namely, multiannual weaknesses, multiannual illegality, multi-annual client state that created the situation. We don't start from scratch, but these too must be solved. Nor can I understand this debate on Karystos, on Aliveri, on some parts of Evia, mainly and secondaryly - I think - in Crete, which had a problem with the placement of waste stations. We're not talking about new locations of big companies. We are talking about existing CFDs, which need to be restored, and in order to be restored, an integrated management must be carried out there. That didn't solve the problem. The thing is not if we could find another place to go. If we could find another place, we'd have gone. Talk to the mayors in the area to see that a real problem is solved. I can't resist the temptation to talk about the famous laughter competition, as it was called, and about the fact. I'm still sorry. I am not going to go against your party. Mrs Gennimata wrote today - I read it - that we were left by the "mouzour" during the old children's game. But the question is, whose hands will the musket be left or who gave birth to the mosquito? The twenty-eight years of lawlessness gave birth to the "smurf". Do we want to end up with the sluts? I'd be happy to get this over with. If he's getting up, it doesn't mean that he's born now. And it was over the quiet lake underneath the rotting. Whether or not the media remembered the rotten media, once Mr. Koskotas chose to take the line then, that is to say, enter the media space, and then bothered -- it was not before lawlessness, everyone knew lawlessness -- and suddenly lawlessness came out of the air, rose tireless. The point is, there's no squirrel. Of course I don't know, but Mr. Papachristopoulos said very well about Mr. Kalogritsa, if he had or had not had the money. All these things, which are currently being referred to with great heat, have been done over the days of previous governments, and economic activities and contractors and all. It was reported that the forests are privatised. Forests are not privatized. Forests are and remain in public, and the question is why these cooperatives are a special purpose. It's a special purpose, because they're public goods collection cooperatives. The people who are in there collect something that's public. They do not produce, like the agricultural cooperatives. They don't produce. People are collectors. Whether mushrooms collect or collect high quality wood or burnwood, they are collectors. We must understand this important difference. Even for the retsini, you said there is no retsini in Greece. Our rhetoric producers in Evia have suffered huge damage from the fire. There is retsini in Greece and we have a lot of economic activity from the retsini. The retsini in Greece is not finished and must be protected. I would like to mention three, four more points, which are important. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In the case of subsidized services, she has said them wonderfully - I conclude, Mr President, in two minutes - Mrs Iglezis, Mrs Iglezis. It was systematic and multi-annual, depreciating our forests. I said that this was a total of the reasons for this. Really in times where there were steadfast assignments over there, there was a blemish. Now all of a sudden, we're crying about the fact that we don't have forest services. Of course it will be solved, but it is not solved from one day to the next. The very economic activity and the interest of the state and our interest is stated. About Tatoi. Tatoi is in a very good place. Already finish the study and we will actually have a jewel there on one thing that's been stuck for over twenty years. Here, I think - and at some point we will be given a greater chance - we are in the final phase. This is a complex and important place with agricultural and livestock production, with archaeology, with new monuments, which centralize at least our interest - because the kingdom in Greece was a historical reality, we cannot ignore it - and with a very great environmental interest. This place will become a jewel. It's worth mentioning, because we've had enough of those wild boars. And here, right here is this: Some are scaming some urban myths, that the bad things in Greece are winding up by the economists: Snakes - says - wasps. Whatever's wrong with the economists. The economists have nothing in nature. Let's make this clear in this Chamber. We are vertically opposed, even to this most innocent import of species. So these wild boars, ladies and gentlemen, are hybrids. He's not really a wild boar. They are animals that have been persecuted with extensive breeding of different pigs, and that is why they bear too many babies a year. The normal, genuine wild boar gives birth to one or two babies. These wild boars give birth to ten to twelve wild boars. That's where the problem starts. It was human, wrong, criminal, and pointless human intervention, which those who did it thought they were doing something good. So, at the moment, this kind also threatens the genotype of genuine wild boars and our agriculture. So it's not innocent. And they didn't even raise the wild boars with some naturality. I heard about the hires. I hope you don't add to these recruitments you're saying - bring us the evidence - our post-call employees. Why? I personally have seven post-call heroes who work for over ten five hours a day and are people who, if I leave, will also leave with me without compensation. You know that. My predecessor had a few dozen. Let me just say another thing: let us assume that even if these seven officials are burdening the state budget, I would remind you that these seven officials have made four bills at the moment, without giving a single bill outside the market. So our predecessors also had ten and twelve posters. I heard Mr. Mitsotakis, when he was Minister, had fifty. I'm not a minister, but I'm a Deputy Minister, and I only have seven. Those 50 employees at least made the laws. The laws were, then, given outside. And they didn't count, of course, in this heavy burden you're saying, half a billion, but they paid gold instead of being exploited and at least making the laws. All these laws you see in previous governments have been made out. And these are costs, which you are not counting on. I hope you don't have an octades, who were hired every year, you don't have teachers inside, nurses. I hope so. I don't know. Because my number seemed really weird. I personally beg in my space for some engineers and don't come. I'm done and I'm not going to make it any more. With regard to the equal responsibility, which the speaker of the Centro Association said, we have basically done so because we say 'yes, you have the responsibility for twenty people and it is at a EUR 100 and it is not with six hundred euros'. All he does is reduce the ability of this cooperative to claim works. That's all it does. I don't think it's a big difference to feel that someone has a three-fold responsibility. We're good for them. We don't do them badly. Granny who cannot be shaved is laid down in the law, because apparently the residents who collect for their own use are imperfect and do not need any management. It is foreseen that you have not studied this. To conclude with a few comments, because others have responded to the debate. Obviously, we have left openness with the huge wind turbulences that I think, if I remember well, without our competence going beyond 30 GW, the total permits that we received, when all of Greece is in need of power of nine. Go on and say we're over the West, it needs twelve. This thing, obviously, you don't have to. But what is questionable is how many of them have mature permits. So it is not enough for Chironis to say - I have been saying this for years, I do not have to say this here in the Chamber - that this is all a bubble that I do not need. He never needed to. And he didn't have to be in our mountains. And I fully share your concern. But how many of them have already had time to grow their permits Finally, for the day without a car, which you well mentioned, I will say that it was a great sadness yesterday because of his Greek surprise, which we were not on the day for sustainable mobility in Samos, which was our honorable city this year, as was the Trikala, which events were wonderful. The warming of the mayors there in both cities was very great and happy, Mr. Amyras, at some point it is the Municipality of Athenians that will be the honorable municipality, because so far we have not seen light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u235	You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Jeleigh.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u236	I would just like to explain, as the Minister said, that, with the inappropriate abduction and as the bill considers an anachronistic and that it does not correspond to the cooperative authorities, I should vote against it at the outset. Minister, I would once again stress that we consider the institution of cooperatives and, in particular, forests to be very useful to the periphery. We believe that even a bad bill such as this, with a bad drafting of the laws, is preferable to vote on it than to vote against and that there is no bill to regulate the issues of forest cooperatives, even in a way that we can correct it along the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is adjourned: 'Forest Cooperatives and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u246	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Forest Cooperatives and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u250	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u255	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 2 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u260	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u264	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 3, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u273	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 4 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u278	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u282	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u284	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u285	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u286	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u287	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u291	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 6, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u294	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u300	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Asked by this House: Is Article 7 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u309	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by this House: Is Article 8 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u314	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u318	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u327	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u336	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u345	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u350	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u354	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u363	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u368	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u372	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u377	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u381	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u386	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u390	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u395	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u399	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u408	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u417	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u426	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u430	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u431	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u435	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u438	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u440	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u444	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u449	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u453	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u458	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u462	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u467	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u471	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u476	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u480	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u489	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u494	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u498	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u507	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u516	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u521	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u525	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u530	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u534	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 33 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u543	Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u552	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u555	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u557	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u561	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u565	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u566	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u570	Article 36 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u574	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u579	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u585	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u588	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u589	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u590	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u591	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u594	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u597	Article 39 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u598	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u606	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u607	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u609	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u612	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u615	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u616	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u618	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u624	Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u625	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u627	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u630	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u633	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u634	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u642	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 45 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u643	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u648	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u651	Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u656	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u657	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u660	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u661	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u663	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u665	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u666	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u669	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u670	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u672	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u674	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u675	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u677	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u678	Article 48 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u679	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u683	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u684	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u686	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u687	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u688	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u690	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u692	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u693	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u696	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u698	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u699	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u701	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u705	Article 51 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u706	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u708	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u710	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u711	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u714	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u715	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u717	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u719	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u720	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u723	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u724	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u725	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u726	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u727	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u728	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u732	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u733	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u735	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u737	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u741	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u742	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u744	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u746	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u747	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u750	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the vote on the amendment. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 673 and a special number 62 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u751	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u752	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u754	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u755	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u759	The amendment, under a general number 673 and a special 62, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u760	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u768	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Forest Cooperatives and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and under the articles. We are entering the vote as a whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u771	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u777	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy ‘Forest Cooperatives and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles, amendments and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u778	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u779	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-22-S1-commons.u780	With the consent of the House at 18.18 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 23 September 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate on Question No 3317-14-2016.
