ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting will be attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the Vrondou Chios Municipal School. Welcome to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Incidentally, with primary school students, it happened that the head of the Ministry of Education was here. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u2	I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 13 June 2016: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The current question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the new delay in the construction of the new airport in Kastelli Crete. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health regarding patients who operate at their own expense at the University Hospital of Thessaloniki "ACHEP". 3. Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the maintenance of jobs with all the rights of workers, in poultry facilities by the new employer "NITSIACO". 4. The Question No 963/7-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the non-implementation of the Disability Card programme despite its establishment by the State. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The current question by MP Chios of the New Democracy Mr Panagiotis (South) Mitaraki to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the protection of feta in European Union trade agreements. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Sakis Bardalis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Sakis Bardalis, Minister of Finance and National Defence, on the Greek Vehicle Industry (‘ELVO ABE’). 3. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the European Parliament, asked the Minister of Health about the situation in the State General Nice. 4. The current question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the deterioration of the manufacturing sector in our country. 5. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Elias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction about the "stability of Greek citizens from a well-known para-state anti-semitism website". 6. Under number 935/31-5-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health about the shortcomings and problems of the fleet of the EKAB. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 926/30-5-2016 by Congressman Arta of the New Republic, George Style, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the payment of the minimum possible coupled aid to the citrus producers. 8. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of the projects for the development of the former airport of Greece. 9. The Question No 938/31-5-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the situation in the Second Chance Schools. 10. Under number 825/254-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economics to the Minister of Health regarding the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metataxas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Previously, I would like to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs and the Standing Committee on Social Affairs are tabling their report in the draft law: 'Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country - Establishment of a Development Council and other provisions'. I also announce to the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its reports on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of authorisation to prosecute Members of Parliament. Thirdly, I would like to take into account the fact that the Committee of Inquiry into the Lawfulness of the Loan of Political Parties, as well as the Owners of Mass Information Companies by the Country's Banking Institutions, set up under Rule 144 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, for which Parliament's plenary has set a deadline for submission of its findings two months from its establishment and which expires on 19 June 2016, calls for a three-month extension of its operation. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u4	Therefore, the House unanimously agreed. Mr Nicholas Voutsi, Member of Parliament, Mr Skrekas from 13 June to 17 June, Mr Theocharis from 11 June to 15 June, Mr Michaelides from 11 June to 14 June and Mr Fortsakis from 13 June to 17 June. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u5	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Fortunately, the first two topical questions will be answered, because the leadership of the Ministry of Education is here. Once again, of the sixteen topical questions, only two will be discussed. For three topical questions, the ministers, namely Mr Bolaris, Mr Tsimonis and Mr Toskas, are justified, because they are not abroad. These three topical questions which are not discussed due to the absence of the foreign ministers are as follows: The first under number 955/7-6-2016 topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Serres of the New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the clarifications concerning the scheme of use of milk powder in the manufacture of Greek yoghurt. The ninth under No 928/30-5-2016 topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the strengthening of the mission and the economic position of resin growers for the benefit of the forest and the national economy. Eleventh question under number 896/23-5-2016 from the second question of Member of Parliament I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the state of control of the supporting documents of participants in the tender for the recruitment of firefighters for a five-year term. There is also one which is not discussed by the honourable Member. It is the fifth under number 901/24-5-2016 topical question of the second question by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the problems in issuing visas for Russian tourists. All the other questions will not be answered, with the well-known slogan 'Council of Ministers', 'the workload of Ministers'. The situation no longer goes. I would suggest that - and I say this in the Minutes - the President of Parliament should review the Rules of Procedure and three unjustified absences of Ministers to be a question of criminal law and even stricter ones. This is no longer the case. I see, in other words, specific ministers who have been to honour us for too long. The questions put off on account of the responsibility of the Ministers are as follows: Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. The second under number 964/7-6-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the reduction of the cost of transit from the "Harilaos Trikoupis" Bridge, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The third under number 958/7-6-2016 topical question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Health, on the steep operational problems at the Anticancer Hospital of "Metaxas", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The second, with number 959/7-6-2016, topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the problems of nursery and childcare stations, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The third, with number 967-7-6-2016, a topical question by MP 2, Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the strike of the port workers at the Piraeus Port Authority (PAO), is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth under number 953/6-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Efstathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the costs of the "representatives of the institutions" in the public sector, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The sixth question under number 899/23-5-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukokorous, concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESDP programme, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The seventh question, number 708/28-3-2016, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Health of the General Hospital of Lamia. The eighth Question No 936/31-5-2016 topical question by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Ministers of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction and National Defence, on the unacceptable and dangerous conditions of "friendly" refugee conditions in Koutsochochero Larissa, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The tenth under number 934/31-5-2016 topical question by Independent MEP II, Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the suspension of the extended hours of customs R and F of Piraeus, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance. The thirteenth, under No. 891/23-5-2016, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Efstathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis to the Minister of State, concerning the "private promotion of specific MPs and journalists from private and state channels", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, concerning measures to relieve the affected in the Municipality of Ierapetra from the destructive fire and the proclamation of the region as a fireman, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The second under number 3062/10/10/2016 question by the Independent MEP Lakonias Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance on compensation for the share of cooperative banks is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health about the problems in the operation of the operating rooms of the General Hospital of Elefsina "Thriasio" is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth question, with number 962-7-2016, will be discussed first cycle by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the delay in examining and recognising the professional equivalence of qualifications by the Board of Recognition of Professional Qualifications. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the topical question concerns the Qualifications Council. In particular, with the n. 4264/2014 the responsibility of the Council was extended to include recognition of the professional equivalence of two further categories of qualifications, firstly, formal higher education qualifications awarded not only by the CITs but also by third countries cooperating in Greece and, secondly, postgraduate studies. A working group was set up in the summer of 2015 to examine the dossiers. This group met - I have the impression - three times. Thousands of files have been lurking since 2013, resulting in thousands of young people suffering, being unemployed due to non-recognition, legal recognition of the qualifications. In view of all this, Minister, you ask what action you intend to take in order to reduce this timely process of recognition of diplomas as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, thank you for your timely question. You are giving me the opportunity to address myself to the National Representation on a matter which is afflicting about three thousand young people and their families and to apologise on behalf of the Greek state for these young people and their families. I would not only like to apologise but also to assure them that by the end of the year this loose end, which - I repeat - does not honour the Greek state will be fully cleared up. The truth is that, like so many others, we did not create it, but we inherited it. There is a series of wrong moves that led from 2010 to 2014 to accumulating a large number of applications, without ever entering for discussion in the Professional Qualifications Recognition Council, the GSP, as planned in d.d. 38. In addition, I must tell you that in the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 there have been many misinterpretations by the administration. In particular, the provision of the Law 4093/2012 provides that, as of 1 January 2013, competent authorities to issue professional recognition decisions would be the relevant professional organisations, organised as legal entities governed by public law, a decentralisation which would help to resolve the problems more quickly. As a result of this provision, the responsibilities of the ESA have been raised, the professional organisations, chambers, and the gathering of a huge volume of applications - I think they have reached the three thousand - of which timely management has no longer been possible. In addition, we did not receive all of this, but in 2014 the Ministry's service unit was abolished, which was responsible for the administrative and secretarial support of the GPA. The new body of the Ministry of Education, which entered into force in 2014, did not provide for a new administrative support unit of the GPSD, which has also reduced new loose ends to the Ministry. That's what we received. As far as our actions are concerned, we immediately set up a committee to put an end to the hostage of thousands of graduates. We are promoting a draft Presidential Decree. We are substantially updating the current Presidential Decree, because unfortunately its incorporation in 2010 has been done without the Directive's provisions being substantially harmonised with our existing national legislation on higher education. We want to introduce a more flexible structure within the structures of the Ministry of Education with the assistance, where necessary, of professional associations and chambers. We believe that following the completion of the procedure and the adoption, improvement of the Presidential Decree, the new institution will be able to examine all dossiers within a few months. This is our commitment. I would like to assure you that we will give way, in response to both the legitimate requirements of the interested parties and our international obligations within the European Union. In the meantime, I have to tell you that a number of administrative measures have been taken to deal with, as far as possible, more outstanding cases, mainly because of unfavourable political and legislative interventions from 2012 to 2014. We have set up a working group, staffed by fourteen staff, to proceed more quickly with full-time monitoring and to complete all application files and to electronically record the files and supporting documents submitted. We are also moving on with Article 54 of Law No.4386/2016, which was passed this year in May, to some amendments to the a.d. 38, particularly with regard to - you are right to point it out in your question - the definition of rapporteurs - not one, but many rapporteurs - but also in the functioning of the Council, in order to facilitate the work and speed up the time-limit for examining the requests for debate. We are in the process of consulting on the final amendments to the President's Decree and we will proceed to a universal solution to the problem, which - I repeat - is afflicting thousands of children and families. One would say that it is one of the shames - small but shameful - of the Greek public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u10	In short, Minister, there are many problems with education. This government has inherited many and important problems and has to manage them. One of them, one of them, is S.H.I.E.L.D. Thousands of young people are suffering - you said three thousand - and they and their families for something reasonable and legitimate. This should have happened yesterday. I'm glad for your answer. Other rapporteurs need to be appointed to examine the dossiers as quickly as possible. We hope that, at least in the next few months, the recognition procedure for all these young people who are really suffering will have been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u11	Minister, I think you've covered it. You want your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u12	I just want to say, in the light of what the honourable Member has said now, that we have indeed inherited many problems in the field of education. However, we have decided and proceeded to rapid areas in order to upgrade education, to have a democratic educational reform for a public quality and equality school in all areas, and for formal and informal education. Since September, there will be specific initiatives to rebuild and upgrade the educational system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u13	Me, too. We move to the twelfth under number 897/23-5-2016 a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the intentions of the Ministry to restore the Scientific Park of Patras under the custody of the Foundation for Research and Technology. Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there's Patras Technology Park. You know that. It is an effort launched by HEI several years ago, seized and has an independent dynamic course of his own. At the same time in Patras, beyond the Scientific Park, a historical university operates, a very large TEI and the Open University. So Patra is actually - and it is good that the Minister is here - it can be a pole of knowledge for the country. At the same time, the previous government - which, Mr Philie, not only inherited badly, but also some good - had created the Western Greek Research Centre based in Patras. The current government, the government, which in fact sees a lot as far as constitutional tolerance - as does the Minister who has just left - what is he doing? It enables HETH to take the shares of the Scientific Park of Patras to Crete in essence. At the same time, the Western Greek Research Centre goes for later. So, in fact, Minister, the questions are two: First, because HEI is well aware of this, is there the thought of transferring the shares of the Patras Scientific Park to HEI? Secondly, when does the Western Greek Research Centre start? Is it going to start? Is there the possibility of launching the Western Greek Research Centre without the Scientific Park of Patras? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u15	Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr Katsaniotis, for the timely question, which gives me the opportunity to reaffirm once again our interest in the development of the "knowledge economy" in the region of western Greece, centred on Patras. The main objective of our research policy is knowledge and innovation, produced by it, to contribute to the development of the "knowledge economy" and through it to contribute to the country's productive reconstruction. Scientific parks, as structures located next to and within the academic and research ecosystem, are key tools for the success of this objective. In particular, the strategic objective of the Scientific Technology Park of Patras contributes to the creation of a modern business activity in the Region of Western Greece, which will be a support for the development of both the existing and the emerging "knowledge economy". Your timely question has been answered by the Step of the House during the recent discussion of L.4386 on research, at the hearing of the Board of Directors of HEIs at the Special Standing Committee on Research and Technology, in which you were present and the Board of Directors gave answers, as well as from the administration of HEIs and the Scientific Park of Patras in the local press. For the record, I would like to mention that the first three scientific and technological parks in Greece were founded by HETH in Patras, Heraklion and Thessaloniki. In particular, the park in Patras was founded in 1989 at the initiative of the institute of FORTH there, ETHYMYTH, later renamed JEHM. The total of its shares since its establishment belonged to HEIs and under this regime worked and developed for many years and the building of the current building that is housed was also possible. In 2001, the share - because basically one is, not to mention shares - of the Scientific Park of Patras was transferred from HEI to the Ministry of Finance with the aim of attracting private investors. Unfortunately, this objective has never been achieved. Since May 2014, based on n. 4261, the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology once again exercises supervision. From 2004 to December 2015 HETH ceased to participate in the administration of the Scientific Park in Patras. After December 2015, he is now involved with two JECH staff, in order to give an opportunity for more effective cooperation between the two organisations. The assessment is that this new administrative scheme will have upgraded potential for contributing to innovation in the region, taking advantage of the multi-annual experience and success of HEI in creating technologies and companies in general in terms of technology and innovation. This, of course, always with pole of IHIM, which is an institute that operates and operates in Patras. Article 25 in the recent law passed on research, which has to do with your question, merely enables the state to transfer in the future, in essence, the shares of the Patras Scientific Park to FORTH. This will happen if this is really beneficial to both institutions and ultimately to the area of western Greece, which both the Patras Scientific Park and IHHMI are serving. Therefore, this is a potential synergy between the Scientific Park of Patras and HETH in Patras and in any case there is no decision made. If this happens at one time, it will be the result of a mature and two-way fermentation between the two institutions. Now, the only guide for such a decision - and I am ending with it - will be the added scientific and economic value that will result in the most effective promotion of the 'knowledge economy' in the region of western Greece. As regards, your question about the Western Greek Research Centre, this, as had been made by Law.4310 along with two more research centres, was just a shell without substance. What we expect - and we have mentioned this to the actors in the region - is in accordance with the new procedure laid down in the recent law on research, based on the activity of the local CIPs, the Regional Research and Innovation Councils, which will come with structured proposals, where there will also be a study of the feasibility and sustainability of the structures to be built, to make these proposals and to see if it serves more the development of the innovative economy in the region of western Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Secretary, but close. I've left you talking about seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u18	Yes, Mr. President. ...the creation of an ecosystem, a consortium of stakeholders, or even if a proposal is made for the creation of a Western Greek Research Centre. But all this must be proved and documented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u19	Here, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u20	A lot of issues have just been raised, Minister. I will begin, saying and making it clear that it is not beneficial for Western Greece to pass the Scientific Park of Patras under the custody of HETH. Let's get this straight. I'm sure he's not beneficial. The other thing we need to see, Minister, is that there are other parks, Ioannina, Thessaloniki. Can the shares go through the law at the FORTH? Why Patra? Is it because Patras is a new dynamic part that, in my view, needs to have an autonomous role and be able, together with the businesses in the region that are many, along with the scientific potential of the area that is large, to go autonomously? Why would the HELL be able to get a piece whenever he wants? And because you said about the committee, can I tell you exactly what they said from the HEI to the committee? Mot a mot. "We have no view. We haven't decided. It wasn't our initiative. We'll see how the science park works. Our man will enter the Board and if he is beneficial, we will proceed." Mot a mot. So it's not that he doesn't know what he's gonna do. HE's coming with a plan, he's putting a person in the board, he's watching what's going on, and if he thinks it's interesting, he's gonna take Patras Park. That's it, Minister. On the other hand, you spoke of the Western Greece Research Centre. We are talking about a project that, of course, the bodies had participated in - and you know - had been discussed with the local society, started and caught the arc in substance by the Arta TEI and ended up at the Kalamata TEI with three important pillars, agri nutrition, food technology, pharmaceuticals and chemical analysis and industrial applications, which is all about the local economy and the scientific potential of the region. What I don't understand - I'm telling you again - is, because in Patras, because it's Patras in the sights. If you want Patras, go ahead, give her the tools, give her autonomy and do what she knows, and the University of Patras and the TEI of Patras of Western Greece and the Open University of Patras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u21	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u22	I will not share your suspicion of HEI, which is an interregional research centre. And the JEHMH, who operates in Patras, has already created important innovative operations there successfully...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u23	Then, Minister, enter Western Greece Research Center...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u24	I, in what you're saying, have no view at this time. I told you that I am waiting for the first report from the local CRP, the Regional Research and Innovation Council, which has to do a serious study of feasibility and sustainability, because research centres are not created simply by adding organisations from here and there. It must be seen clearly - I do not know how you do - the resulting added scientific and economic value.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u25	They became their state law, Minister. There's been consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u26	What this state law leaves is, as I have said, the possibility. And she...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u27	The previous law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u28	I haven't seen any such study, if you mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u29	It's a state law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u30	He became a state law and will be corrected by a presidential decree. Let him come now with a sustainability study, or we'll have a hollow shell that doesn't say anything at all. The same thing has been done with two more centres in areas which also have their own potential and have been treated the same. We have said that, by the end of the year, there should be studies, serious studies of the resulting added value and sustainability. Now I'd like to fix something. There is no technology park in Ioannina.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u31	Isn't there a technological park in Jannah?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u32	No, there's just an institution of FORTH there. It's not a tech park.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u33	Thessaloniki?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u34	Also in Thessaloniki, the technology park belongs to IKETA, which is a research centre that operates there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u35	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u36	I didn't tell you it couldn't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Casaniotis, please. Nothing is written in the Minutes. I expect to see when the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u38	You have a suspicion about an organization that has contributed in particular to the development of the 'knowledge economy' in the country, it has an interregional character. And what I'm telling you is not something that will be done in any case or not. I don't know. What I am saying is that we expect there to be a documented position from the Regional Research and Innovation Council in the region and, of course, from both bodies, always in the best interests of innovative entrepreneurship in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u39	Minister, let me make it easier for you. If, after all, the suggestion that you are waiting for, does the study plead in favour of Mr Katsaniotis' request, is the political will of your own, the head of the Ministry, to return under the guardianship of the Institute of Technology and Research? If it is positive, that is, the suggestion you are waiting for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, what we are going to do is look at the suggestion that will come. If the suggestion is positive, that there should be a reunification of forces with the FORTH - which I do not see - the same country is - we will do that. If it's not positive - and the arguments really all show that we should...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u41	I'm saying if it's positive. The return is fine, you've answered it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u42	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u43	So you'll accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u44	We'll take it. It is an option that exists, without any decision being made at the moment. It's a potential expression.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u45	It should be recorded. Ladies and gentlemen, before I finish the sitting and so that my dear colleague Mr Panagulis, who for the second time - I do not know how comprehensive he is - had a timely question and the Minister responsible, Mr Chakalotos, did not come, I will give him the floor for two minutes to express his protest and be written in the Minutes. Here, Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I have two topical questions today. Within twenty days, the State canalarch, the Minister of State, Mr. Poppas, has not come. And it's not abroad, which would be justified. It's between Maximos and his office here at the beginning of Congrou Street. Mr. Pappas is violating, Mr. President - and you know that, because you have great sensitivity - and the Rules and the Constitution...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u47	I said it at first. You heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u48	...and despises this Chamber, the Greek Parliament, which millions of Greeks have fought to operate. As far as Mr Tsakalotou's second question is concerned, the Ministry of Finance has four ministers. A minister could come here. They despise the Greek Parliament. It's unacceptable! And the enemies of democracy and parliamentaryism rejoice in this mess here. Twenty questions we have today, Mr President. In addition to three ministers, who are absent abroad and are justified, where are the others? If Mr Papapas - I said so next time, I will fill in another word - he cannot perform his duties, let him go back to Koumoundourou Square to be Surukleme! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u49	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-10-S1-commons.u50	With the consent of the House at 14.00 noon, the sitting for the next Monday, June 13, 2016, at 17.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate; and (b) the debate on Question No 26/18-4-2016, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
