ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 16-6-2016, the PRACs' minutes of the PRACs' PRACs' meetings, Thursday 16 June 2016, concerning the resolution to the whole draft law: ‘Institutional framework for the establishment of private investment aid schemes for the regional and economic development of the country – Establishment of a Development Council and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Four topical questions will be discussed, and eighteen questions will not be discussed. The second question by No. 5166/28-4-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on measures to relieve the affected in the Municipality of Ierapetra from the destructive fire and the proclamation of the region as a fireman, is not discussed after consultation of the honourable Member with the relevant Minister. The third, with number 986/13-6-2016, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Health, on the redundancies of OKANA officials in Patras, is not discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister Mr. Xanthiou abroad. The seventh question under number 965/7-2016, on the suspension of the wage promotions of military personnel of the Armed Forces for the period 2017-2018, is not discussed due to the absence of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, abroad. The tenth under number 953/6-2016 topical question by Independent MEP 2, Eftathiou (Stathi) Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the costs of the "representatives of the institutions" in the public sector, is not discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister Mr Tsakalotou abroad. Also, the third under number 3062/10/10/2016 question by the Independent Member of the Laconia Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance regarding the compensation of the members of cooperative banks is not discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister Mr Tsakalotou abroad. Because of the impediment of the competent ministers, they will not be discussed and will be redefined for discussion: The second, number 987/13-6-2016, timely question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the possibility of a 60% reduction in the pension of farmers, in accordance with Article 20 of the new insurance bill, will not be discussed, due to a workload of the State Secretary Mr. Petropoulos. Mrs Arabadzis has asked for the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I have asked for the floor because, in fact, I would like to denounce another phenomenon of insulting parliamentary control and, of course, parliamentarianism. Mr Petropoulos, who, in the suggestion you read, claims that he did not come to the House to answer the current question because of a workload, did not come because of a workload, because, as he himself revealed, he will not come to answer this question and, as he said, he will never come to answer it, because he considers that he answered a relevant question from a colleague from another party. Mr President, as you can see, parliamentary control cannot be a burden on the evaluations of an extra-parliamentary minister. If the services of Parliament should group the relevant questions, please do so in order to facilitate parliamentary control over all Members of all the parties. I would also like to say - and this is the most important point - that Mr Petropoulos, when I asked him about this major issue of cutting the pensions of farmers to 60%, told me that he has much more serious jobs than answering and answering the same questions again and that it is therefore incomplete for the Prime Minister to stop him. As you can see, such excuses cannot be edited and such expressions can be said, because they seriously affect parliamentarianism. If Mr. Petropoulos was so busy, we wouldn't have bothered him to come here to answer that question if he'd issued a circular on this matter for a month and a half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u4	You know that the Conference of Presidents has decided, if the phenomenon continues, to establish one day, and each Minister will say 'I can come on this day', so that there can be no hindrances to the workload and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u5	But he's never coming to answer, because he thinks he's answered a relevant question. That'll be mandatory...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u6	Deal, Mrs. Arabaji. That is what I can tell you from the Bureau. What you said that the Minister, when replying to a Member of another party, is not responding to another party, is certainly not the case. You understand that. Ladies and gentlemen, the first under number 944-14-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Papaliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the ‘Hadjigakis package’ and the decision of the European Court of Justice to recover the sum of 327 million. The euro as illegally paid to Greek farmers in 2008 and 2009 is not being discussed because of the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Evangelos Apostleos, due to a workload. The third, with number 991/13-2016, a top-circuit question for the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the need to strengthen the staff of the First Dodecanese Police Directorate, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction Mr. Nikolaos Toska, due to a workload. The fourth under number 1003/14-6-2016 topical question for the first cycle of Piraeus, the Communist Party of Greece, Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Health, on the operational problems in the anti-cancer hospital “METAXA”, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. Also, the eleventh question under number 899/23-5-2016 of the new Republic MP, Christou Bukouros, concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESS programme, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. Also, the twelfth under number 708/28-3-2016, a topical question by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Christos Stakosras, on the question of dealing with the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The fourth question by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems in the operation of the surgical rooms of the General Hospital of Elefsina "Thrias" is not discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload. The ninth under number 967-7-6-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the strike of the port workers at the Piraeus Port Authority (PAO), is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Theodorou Dricas, due to unsuccessful obligations. The fourth under number 1004/14-6-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning measures to cover the thousands of needs for teachers for the new school year, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Nicholas Philie, due to unsuccessful obligations. The sixth question under number 996/14-6-2016 of the Independent Member of the Achaias Parliamentary Mr Nikolaos Nikolaos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerning the reading of the Gospel on the day of the Holy Spirit in Agia Sophia, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Nicholas Kotzias, due to the absence of his outside Athens. The first question with number 5113/26-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKGGKKKKKKKKKKKKKKGROKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKOS SpirtziKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKOS SpirtziKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKOS SpirtziKKKKKKKKKOS Spirtzos SpirtzitziKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKVKPPPPKKKKKKKVKVKVKVKVKVKKVKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKPnisPnisPnisPnisP Ladies and gentlemen, the thirteenth question, number 891/23-5-2016, will now be discussed at the end of a second question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Efstathiou (Stathi) Panagouli, Minister of State, on the "private promotion of specific MPs and journalists from private and state channels". Mr Panagoulis' timely question will be answered by the Minister of State, Mr Papapas. Please, Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, in the last four times, Friday, eighty-time questions have been raised to date in the previous four ministers and four others today. Eight Ministers! It is a disgrace, Mr President! Ten percent! To abolish the timely questions, to abolish parliamentaryism! As far as Mr Pappa is concerned, on 25 April I tabled a question on the privileged visibility of specific Members and journalists, particularly raised by state channels and private channels, in breach of Article 15 of the Constitution on equal treatment. The Minister refused to reply in writing, refused to come here to Athens three times. Mr President, the Constitution is violated every day by state television and private channels. It is a change in democracy, Mr President, an aristocracy of guests to guarantee the parliamentary seat for free advertising. This has been done for many years, but we never expected that from a government that continues to say that it is left-wing government. They must have read Marx backwards, Mr President, because the left-wing governments have both the spirit and the style. I would like Mr Papapas to tell us - because I asked him to list and refused to list - who are those who are favoured every day, both from state channels and from private channels. He refused to testify to him. He has dozens of advisors to his ministry, they have dozens of advisors in Maximus to answer, but they despise both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. What have you done, Minister, about the monkey degrees in ERT today? You know - and this is what I am ending, Mr President, although I have time to tell us what has happened with the'mummy' degrees? Do you know the joke circulating in the ERT corridors, that bananas are forbidden, why will all the monkey degrees be lifted? That is the reality, Minister. You haven't done anything at all, about a year and a half you've been there. What did you do about state television? Why do you favour specific MPs and journalists? I am neither shopping nor want to appear and avoid many times when private channels call me. But I have been invited by ERT, Mr President, once on an anniversary sad for the Greek people last November for the Polytechnic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's where you've turned state channels. You think you've become the canalarch, as other canalarchs have been, and they're calling whoever they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u8	Please, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would remind you, Mr Pappas, in my dentistry, of what your personal friend, Mr Kouris, has written about where you intend to grant permissions. Your personal and daily voicemail, Mr. Kouris!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Panagoulis, please, in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u12	Minister, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll start with Mr. Panagoulis' quotes about Marx and Left. I imagine Mr Panagioulis was also there, reading Marx, and passed the Spring Policy ballots in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u14	Excuse me, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u15	I'm saying that you, too, reading Marx, I guess...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u16	You're not listening, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u17	The microphone is open. Do I sound?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u18	Now you're soundin'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u19	I say that you, too, read Marx or paraphrase him, have also passed through the Spring Policy ballots. Now, for the'monitor' degrees, for the first time in the ERT a process of evaluation will be launched. That is, I think, something very positive, and we should all recognise it. I am very impressed, unfortunately, by the timely question. We should keep mild tons. But I would like to tell you how ERT manages guest issues. ERT has an obligation to cover all parties. And he does this many times at the expense of the news. It is the only channel that ensures pluralism. And here - let me - I am making an assessment crisis, because it is clear that private channels and despite their number and the criticism we have experienced, pluralism has not been guaranteed. One example of this - known in the Greek - is the choices they made and the publicity they gave during the referendum last July. ERT TV MPs are called on the following: the particular attention they may have on a topic for discussion, the choice made by the party they represent or if they have produced a more general report with their positions. It is characteristic that the ERT had not been received protests about unequal treatment by parties and that is very positive. Independent Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament are present, as in the recent issue of refugees, in the matter of negotiation or what is known as 'Panama papers'. I think that state television is 'like flies in milk', as regards the balances and objectivity of presenting views. I would, however, expect a Member of Parliament who has voted for the government's programming declarations, in which programme statements were also the law on the licensing of channels, to acknowledge that our effort is precisely the break in the subjection of the journalistic agenda to the particular and special interests of the owners of television stations. We are also doing this, seeking to build sustainable channels. I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u21	Apart from the fact that Mr. Pappas, like many other government officials, have read Marx backwards, they have read all of Machiavelli. Yes, Mr Pappa, I had gone as a collaborator in the Spring Politics, because I have been consulted and have expressed it many times in this Parliament. I have had many periods in this Chamber since 1977. But you're following Machiavelli's tactics, throwing mud and making big lies. Mr. Pappa, why didn't you answer for monkey degrees? Who are you covering? But we will come back with another question here no matter how many times you do not come. Because last Friday, here, in Athens, you were. And I know where you were when we met here. You didn't have any government employment. Do you want me to tell you? I'll tell you. You've supervised the olive-coloured man in your offices on Syngrou Street, which you and Mr. Spirtzi are keeping together. There you were at 10:00 in the morning. But you have the tactic of throwing mud, as Machiavelli said. You have the tactic of telling great lies and throwing mud. Do you want me to remind you, Mr Pappa, what statements did you make on 21-1-2015 in the slums of Athens? I will remind you this: "It is our commitment that the 2015 ENVY will not be collected." And you urged people not to pay HISBIA, you urged citizens not to pay tolls. And now they're on their way. Mr President, do you know what revenue ERT has from the percentage collected from PPC? It's over 250,000,000 a year. And if I'm wrong, if Mr. Pappas knows, he'll tell us. Each account of every house that has a PPC clock is about 6.25. If we consider business and advertising, ERT is more than 250,000 000 euros a year. I, therefore, challenge him to say - he did not say or say - about the monkey degrees and the jokes circulating in the ERT. What have you done, Mr. Pappa, a year and a half with all those who have forged a degree? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But you should know that your friend, Mr. Kouris, just wrote an article four days ago about where you're headed to give permissions. I'll report it briefly. I imagine you'll have seen it, of course, because you're regularly working together and you're also a visitor to the Theory Street. So it leaves it imply that you are haggling various licenses with suspects, not to say the underworld. But here, in the beginning, when the law was passed, you told us it was four. Then you said it could be five, it could be six, it could be more. I will now answer you with something the former President of SYRIZA said with which you have had the luck of working with him, Mr Alavanos. You know very well what Mr Alavanos said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u22	Please finish, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u23	I shall say that, Mr President, and I shall conclude with that. Mr Alavanos said that even the junta of Papadopoulos and Bavarian rule was not given public property to an organization controlled by foreigners. I, Mr President, have an opinion and an opinion. Since 1977 I have been in this Chamber, Mr Papapas - and I have been nursed in many periods - many of these benches have passed. But some of them also sat on other seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Panagoulis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u25	I am no longer surprised by the extremities of the designations Mr Panagulis uses. I think they don't surprise anyone anymore. I think last week he called me Gaulier, overcoming a smaller opposition party parliamentarian who had described me as 'Georgals'. I'd tell him to keep trying not to be a pussy. But what he said is a pussy. It's creepy, but it's touching the edges of pheasy, because if I'm Gaulier, I imagine private television stations are players of the new national resistance. In any case, Mr Panagoulis, because you said a great deal about the government's policy being pursued, I would like to remind you that we were candidates on the same list in a programme that you were aware of and with an agreement that you were aware of. Then you turned the violin. And still sit in the parliamentary benches!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u26	To the question of answering!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u27	We were elected on the same schedule, Mr. Panagoulis! You are currently enjoying the parliamentary salary and you are criticising the programme that you have voted on. You talked about HISPIA again. You have used New Democracy's arguments. The September elections took place. Because of the September elections, sit at that seat, Mr. Panagoulis! And in the September elections this government asked the Greek people to judge what it had achieved in the negotiation. So let the magnificence, because the worst thing a politician has to do is to see his shadow and think it's his boo, think they're all dealing with him or having the syndrome of the Capitol's geese.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u28	For the monkey degrees, answer us and why you cover them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u29	I've answered you! Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u30	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u31	If Mr. Panagulis has something specific to report on the monkey degrees, to report it. Because he also served four parties that were in the Greek Parliament and is now independent. If there's anything specific about him, he'll report it. This is the first time after forty years that we will proceed to the evaluation process in ERT.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. The second question under number 988/13-6-2016 will be discussed in the context of the second question by MP I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the correction of the administrative boundaries of the island of Agios George and its place in the Municipality of Hydra. The question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Balafas. Mr. Katasfadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for not having a coma. Obviously you must work much less than your colleagues. I don't want to go on. And I will refer you back to that, Mr President. It is unacceptable what is happening. And I'm saying it with as much of a contraction as possible. There are topical questions about very serious and flaming issues, which have been tabled more than two or three months by fellow Members, not only on matters in their region, but on wider issues that concern the whole of the country. And it is at least unacceptable and hypocritical that the ministers choose what questions they will be asking if they are concerned about whether these questions are from the headquarters of the government's MPs or from the chairs of the opposition. Mr Minister, I now come to our point and to the topical question I have tabled to you. On the occasion of this timely question, I come to try to find a solution and correct an injustice which has taken place at the expense of the Municipality of Hydra. This injustice has to do with the island of Agios Georgios. As you know, in the administrative boundaries of the Municipality of Hydra, since its establishment by Royal Decree of 1834, the island of "Agios Georgios". From 1834 until today we are talking about, there is no presidential decree, no legislative provision, there is nothing to change the boundaries of the particular municipality, where was the island of Agios Georgios. Suddenly, with the 2011 census and when the figures were formalized in 2012, without knowing the municipality - in secret all - it appeared a year and a half ago that the island of "Agios Georgios" has left the control and the administrative boundaries of the Municipality of Hydra and has gone to the municipality of Laureotikos. The answers you have given me to the questions I have asked you have told me that there has been no administrative change in the limits. In my letter to the Greek Statistical Authority I am told that they are not responsible for this change. Unfortunately, the question remains. I will explain to you in my dentistry why the problem is very important. It has nothing to do with historical reasons, but it has to do with economic reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Because we talked one way or another about the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny, I say that today I am a victim of a blockade by a Vice-Population MEP, who declared a coma yesterday and did not come today. From there on, I think there is an issue with the permanent image of the bearings or ministerial actions in the stage of the debate or the procedure of parliamentary control. It is not an image of honour in this top, in my view, process of parliamentary life and Parliament. So it's a more general issue we need to see. Soaps exist when on one side, when on the other side. So I tell you that today there is a coma from a Vice-President, which was announced yesterday. He didn't come today to defend his question because he had a coma. This does not, however, raise any objections to what has been said before and which must be paid particular attention to both the Bureau and the President of the Parliament. Mr Papoutsis, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that I will try on my part - and I think Mr Katsafandos does so too - to take a step further in addressing the issue, which is raised by Mr Katsafandou's question. I say this because legal aspects of the matter have been raised by the honourable Member and have been answered by the Ministry in response from March and May, if I am not mistaken, this year. I would simply remind you, Mr Katasfados, that as far as your two specific questions are concerned, ELSTAT - how to do so - is an independent authority, which is supervised by Parliament. And as an independent authority - and I come here to your second question, the first was similar - its decisions cannot be commented on. I am going to inform you - perhaps by far - of the answer that ELSTAT gave us three, four days ago, on 15 June, to the question about what you're asking us. It says, therefore, that this independent authority, the Hellenic Statistical Authority: ‘The procedures for reviewing and establishing the autonomous settlements of the municipalities of the country are part of the preparatory work for organising and carrying out the general censuses and are governed by national and Union census law. The procedures for reviewing and defining the autonomous settlements of the municipalities of the country are therefore not a criterion for determining or changing the administrative boundaries of the municipalities. The administrative limits are laid down by the primary committees and by the competent administrative courts. It follows from the above that the Hellenic Statistical Office is not competent to establish administrative boundaries of the municipality.’ [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So - and let me just a second, Mr President - if we go a little further into the case of this rocky island "Agios Georgios", "San George" for the locals in Saronicos, Velvina for the ancient Greeks, we must inform ourselves that this issue is being charged particularly by the energy investment that took place on the island by the Ministry, PPC and made it an energy centre for the region with a number of renewable energy sources, photovoltaic wind turbines. In this way, this rock island is of particular importance to the municipality that will have the island in its administrative jurisdiction. Let us not forget, too, that the municipality in whose administrative jurisdiction this RES station belongs receives 80% of the energy sale price. This is important, and that burdens the issue we are discussing. However, I would like to say this: there is undoubtedly - as Mr Katsafada says - the decision of 1836 on the administrative jurisdiction of the municipality of Hydra. But there are then - I am not sitting there, I am simply quoting, I repeat - laws and decisions that have changed the administrative boundaries of local authorities. In these decisions for about eighty, a hundred years, the island of San George was not mentioned anywhere. And the decision of another independent authority, of the Regulatory Authority for Energy, which validates the accession to the Municipality of Laureate, is coming, in order to allow PPC and the Ministry to continue the investment for the Renewable Energy Station, which, as RAE says, produces legal effects if not legally insulted. I'm stopping here. There are one or two other issues, which I could raise in my dentistry. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Katasfados, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u37	Minister, as you quite rightly said, in response to the President of the Hellenic Statistical Authority, he clearly states that the regulation on the administrative limits of the municipalities does not fall within the competence of ELSTAT. I want to tell you about the history that the Municipality of Laureate during the preparation of the census approved a leaf of autonomous settlements, sent by the Greek Statistical Authority, in which the settlement of the island "Agios Georgios" was not included. There's a terrible distortion here. In response to the question I have sent to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, Minister, the Minister responsible says: "In the absence of data, the census limits of the municipal or local communities of the Greek Statistical Authority are used. The Greek Statistical Authority is responsible for correcting the data of the above website.’ So, through this issue, which concerns my constituency and a historic island of our country, we can understand why development may not go any further in our country, Mr President. One ministry is complicating itself with another, one independent authority makes other decisions. And suddenly we see that politicians, the ministers, have no opportunity to make a decision on what is self-evident. So the Greek Statistical Authority cannot, in secret, deliver a rock island to another municipality. There is a more general problem here. Nor are you, Minister, responsible for this situation, for this bureaucracy, and for this demonic system which has been created in the country. The Minister says that there is no change in the administrative limits, the Ministry of Energy says that there is no specific system for the mapping of rock islands, which is a more general problem. And we're talking about rock islands that aren't in the Argosaronian. Mr President, there are also rock islands which are in the Dodecanese, which are your constituency, but also rock islands of national interest, which should be clarified to whom they belong, to which municipality they are. The ministry says that because we don't have evidence of some rocky islands, we get and we adopt ELSTAT's proposal. And we have Hydra, a historic island that tends to become a barren line because of the terrible problems of the coastline, an island that has no doctor, an island that has huge problems, with residents being burdened in a variety of ways in their everyday lives compared to those who live in urban centres. The municipality on this rock island loses income that exceeds every year the five hundred thousand euros, which could create even better infrastructure for islanders who need them more than another municipality, in my opinion, who we still do not understand how he took this rock island. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. Mr Balafa, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u39	I'm watching my colleague. There has been a debate in the past. This is not the first time that we have been discussing the matter with Mr Katsafados, as, after all, we have done with representatives of the Municipality of Hydra and representatives of the Municipality of Laureate. In trying to see the issue, I have to say that subjecting this rock island to the Municipality of Hydra or to the Municipality of Laureate is a matter - I stress it - which, because of the great investment that is taking place, is of major importance for the two municipalities concerned and, in my opinion, must be dealt with with with with due seriousness and responsibility. There are legal, administrative, financial aspects. To the extent that I am allowed and of course fully respecting the self-sufficiency of the municipalities, the local authorities and their self-evident ability to take decisions by their own bodies, or to determine the ways in which they will best defend their interests, I would also say to Mr Katasfados and, more generally, that we want to take a step towards effective solution and address the issue towards the final solution, because at the moment there are what you have said. Obviously there is an investment, there is one project that has been done, there are cables that lead to the opposite shore, a de facto situation is created - de facto, I repeat - which creates a decaying de facto, a situation that has two sides. If, therefore, we do not just want to see the issue - and I do not believe in any way that this is the case with Mr Katsafados - but we want fair and fair treatment, assuming that the law is as it stands, I would say: I would say that we have to produce what is available, gather it, play this role, include a further brief investigation that must be carried out on our side along with legal advisers, because we - I say, Mr Katsafade, and I answer that - cannot say 'this is and is done'. We say what it is, in 1836 this, in 2011 this. We cannot say, 'It is over, that is the issue'. If a person considers that he is wronged by what is happening, he appeals to the administrative courts, he appeals to the Commission to determine the limits by which he is set up and convened by the relevant decentralised administration. I understand that the Municipality of Hydra or one side - let me say it more generally - think that she is right on her side, she says, 'I do nothing'. This is a confrontation. It is possible to see it, to try it, because whoever is right on his side has no problem resorting to it and dealing with the matter through the existing provisions, through the laws and jurisdictions that exist. I repeat that there is a Commission which can and must be set up for these matters in the context of decentralised administration at the request of the interested parties. In any case, with the context that I said earlier and with an absolutely good attitude and political will to find the solution to seek and 'enforce' the right thing, I am still at the disposal of both the honourable Member and the Municipality of Hydra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u40	Thank you. The fourteenth question under number 859/13-5-2016 of the new Republic of Thessaloniki MP, Stavros Kalafatis, will be discussed with the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the lack of a political will to improve road safety, in line with the objectives of the European Strategy and the National Plan for 2020. The Foreign Minister will answer Mr Marina Chrysoveloni. You have the floor, Mr. Kalafatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the question of improving road safety is a maximum priority for many countries in Europe and should be at the forefront of interest and on the part of the Greek Government. Unfortunately, the results so far in terms of numbers and incidents are dramatically high and large, inversely depending on the effort and care that the government has shown or should have shown on this very serious issue. Greece remains the country with the highest rate of traffic mortality among the oldest Member States of the European Union. These are elements invoked by the official European Monitoring Centre for Road Safety. The average of road deaths in the European Union in 2015 was 51.5 deaths per million inhabitants, with Greece being in the seventh worst position among the twenty-eight Member States, with seventy-four deaths per million inhabitants, showing a better performance only from specific countries such as Bulgaria, Romania, etc., with 31% of victims being riders of motorcycles and motorcycles and 17% of pedestrians. The economic cost of every fatal accident in Greece is 1.5m euros, which you understand is particularly high in a country that is suffering from such a difficult economic crisis. A strategic objective of the European Union's road safety policy is to reduce half the number of road accident deaths from 2010 to 2020, an objective that also goes hand in hand with that set out by the National Strategic Plan to improve road safety in Greece for the period 2011-2020. Of course, we have to say that it sets the six hundred dead for 2020 as a maximum target, and only in 2015 we had eight hundred eighty dead. The National Strategic Plan sets as a fundamental objective the development of road safety education, in which Greece falls short of the European States. Let me just mention that while it is compulsory at the first level of education at 71% and at the second level at 43% in the countries of the European Union, we do not have it as a compulsory lesson here. Following this, and on the basis of the fact that the competent bodies provided for have not been established, such as the Interministerial Committee on Road Safety and the respective Special Secretariat, I would like to ask the Minister if the implementation of the National Strategic Plan for improving road safety for the period 2011-2020 is to be made possible, but also the country's compliance with the European Union road safety strategy in 2020 and, of course, whether the Interministerial Committee on Road Safety is to be re-established and the corresponding Special Secretariat to coordinate the implementation of the programmes, such as road safety training.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Mrs Chryssovelloni has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the question, Mr Colleagues, since you have given me the opportunity to address an issue that has been bothering me since I took office for about four months. It is therefore true that, according to statistics on the performance of the Member States of the European Union to which you have also referred, Greece unfortunately owns one of the highest death rates per million people in the European Union, yet a slight decrease in the years 2014-2015. The strategic plan, to which you referred, Mr Metten, is indeed a very important tool of the state to improve the level of road safety and it refers to actions by all the stakeholders, which will make it possible to reduce road accidents dead by 50% in 2020 compared to 2010. Therefore, it encodes road safety programmes and actions in six areas. Firstly, the training of road safety. Second, traffic surveillance. Thirdly, safe road users. Fourthly, the safe road infrastructure. Fifthly, safe vehicles and, sixthly, immediate help to the pathogens. By your question you ask whether it is being put to the priorities of the SYRIZA - Independent Greek Government and, by extension, the implementation of this national plan. Mr Papoutsis, I would like to inform you that we are already applying this. So we are now trying to maintain and strengthen good practices, with vision and consistency, really integrating road safety high on the social agenda. In particular, in the area of infrastructure, I will mention the following concession projects, which are within the competence of our Ministry. I'll tell you why I'm invoking them. First, ‘Aegean Motorway S.A.’ - Key. In 2007 there were eleven fatal accidents and in 2015 there were three. ‘Olympia Road S.A.’ Corinth - Patras with twenty-five fatal accidents in 2007 and eight in 2015. The Ionian road is under construction, part of which, i.e. the bypass of Agrinio-Artas, has already been given. Corinth - Tripoli - Kalamata and Lefktro - Sparta, apart from the perimeter route Kalamata, have already been completed. As you can see, projects are being completed very importantly in a year and a half of our own governance, which, unfortunately, were bogged down on their own governance. All the above motorway projects, which are listed completely indicative, which have already been released, as well as the other sections, which will have been given by March 2017, as you can see, will significantly improve user road safety on our country's national road network. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] You'll give me some time from the denology, Mr. President. Also, in the context of harmonisation with Directive 2008/96 of the European Parliament, our Ministry has established a plan of actions to improve road safety, distinct planning actions for the national and provincial network of the whole country, the management of which has been entrusted to “Egnatia S.A.”. The implementation of the programme has been successfully completed since the end of 2015. The studies are approved and are accompanied by detailed tender documents for each dangerous position, so that they can be implemented immediately as soon as the relevant funding is ensured. One of the most serious advantages of this programme is its flexibility, as it can be adapted to the available funding, since it can be financed from one to more positions or sections per county. However, as you quite rightly said, I think that what plays a very important role in safety, particularly in road traffic, is the question of education. For that very reason, we are already in very close cooperation with the respective Ministry for the promotion of actions relating to the use of the road, namely the driver, the passenger and the pedestrian. The actions are as follows: first, participation and organisation of conferences and seminars. Secondly, the development of educational manuals. Thirdly, the reform of the Road Traffic Code. Fourthly, the development of new candidate drivers' manuals. Fifthly, the implementation of European projects. I am referring to HEROES and to e-Call. Sixth, the development of software applications for driver training and road safety management, the development and operation of an electronic academy, the so-called e- Drive Academy. Seventh, full introduction of the Road Safety course in the educational process. Of course I have a question here, Mr Papoutsis. How have you for 30 years of your own governance never thought of any planning and synergy with the Ministry of Education? [[This is where the ending bell of the speech of the State Secretary is ringing.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. Last but not least, the meetings of the Legislative Committee for the Review of the Road Traffic Code, as reconstructed by Protocol No I4B/56341/8777/9-12-2015 Ministerial Decision, have already begun. Now the Interministerial Committee on Road Safety, to which you referred, remind you that it was first set up in 2010, was reconstituted in 2014, when it met once and for all. So, Mr Papoutsis, it argues that both the Interministerial Committee and the National Road Safety Council, which is unfortunately multiplier and we will reform it, must become flexible and functional structures, have new tools for coordination and policy-making, such as the allocation of available resources. However, honestly - and I am closing with this - it is a great wonder that the interest and anguish expressed for the Interministerial Committee, when in the four years of your own governance this committee has met once and for all. In any case, the purpose of the government, if you ask us the relevant question, is to direct their activation in order to make the country's road safety a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Kalafatis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much. I'm afraid, Minister, you didn't cover me at all in your reply. First of all, I say that the tape you have been using for thirty years of previous governance has no more listeners, it often sounds very well in the ears of the citizens, but it has no effect at all, you know. And because this tape has been damaged, this slogan has now lost and effectiveness, it doesn't say anything. And even when you yourself confess that there is a plan in place that starts from 2011 and extends until 2020. So, in fact, you are undoing yourself with your word and with your arguments what you are going to tell us that we have done nothing for thirty years. Of course you also said and admitted that, apart from the fact that the programme, which is in force, has been drawn up and implemented on governance, in fact, another one, but has been continued by us, but there has also been a steady course, it is also the question, of course, of the Interministerial Committee set up in 2000, to be precise. You said right in 2010 and after 2014. In fact, he met under the former President of the Republic, Mr. Charles Papoulias, and he also recommended the National Road Safety Council in 2010. So, at the level of application and care on the part of our own governments, it proves in practice our interest in such a vital issue. In connection with the programmes concerning traffic surveillance, road safety, safe road infrastructure, they are of course part of the national road safety plan. Except, you know, they can't just stay on the level of a nomenclature or subject matter. There's gotta be work. And over there, when there's work, there's a problem with the government. By the way, the government existed before you came Minister, who came to four months. So it's evaluated, the government is judged by us, by the opposition in general, on your face, of course. I would like to tell you, therefore, that when you hear work, there is a problem with the government, because these programmes, which you have referred to, should be implemented at national, regional and local level, which requires and requires systematic cooperation, vertical and horizontal coordination. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposals, and I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to give us an answer. I would like to say, of course, that there is also a number of other worrying findings, which have been submitted to the House by a well-known automobile which all of Greece knows, which are also catalysts. I will only mention that in about a year, we had a thousand six hundred dead and twenty thousand injured in traffic accidents. And while in all the countries we have had a reduction in traffic accidents from 20% to 99%, in Sweden, for example, we have had an increase of 60% in Greece with the quality of roads and dangerous drivers ranking us, as has been said in the committee responsible, in the last twenty-eight of the European Union in terms of road safety. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am closing down and talking about the subject of studies. I do not know if you refer to studies, which will in fact relate to each county separately or to the large counties. Two studies will have to be carried out. I would ask, however, and I would like to know, for example, whether these studies have been completed, whether they exist or are not there - you have made a reference - and if there is provision in the NRP - because this is an effective demonstration of the government's concern and interest in road safety - to finance and implement these programmes. Minister, you know that there are issues, such as road safety, which may not be the hard core of political confrontation. Of course, however, this very sensitive point, which is, if you want, a modern genocide against the Greeks, is not a matter of building enemies to the government, which is a friendly, classic method of government on other issues, which in fact have nothing to do with such a sensitive and delicate issue, such as improving road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to you. I would like you to know that under no circumstances have I come here in the mood of controversy, because I really think that the issue of road safety is a matter which concerns all of us, and it is an issue that we must deal with over parties and beyond any political controversy. What I have mentioned, referring to the period of your own governance, is just some remarks, but without any controversy, because I really think that the work of road safety is a project that is evolving - or rather should be done - during each government service, that is to say, a programme that is dynamically evolving over time. So the aim of the government, I imagine, will be understood by what I have said, is really to be able to invest and achieve the reversal of this climate, which is negative at the moment, so that we can create a new concept of road safety, which will cause and bring about a definitive change in the current situation. In this context, therefore, this framework is part of a very detailed intervention, which I made on the Special Standing Committee on Road Safety, which is in the House, which you referred to earlier, but also the very dynamic presence and representation of the country at the informal Council of Transport and Environment of the European Union, where I attended and represented the Greek Government and the Ministry, which took place in Amsterdam, as well as at the Ministerial Conference of the International Transport Forum, which took place some time ago in Leipzig, with a view to highlighting - and I think this is very important - new transport models aimed at strengthening the level of road safety, such as intelligent transport systems. From there on, on the most specific issues you mentioned, I would like to tell you that I personally, as having the transport portfolio, will always be at your disposal, at any time, to give you specific information and specific answers on what you have referred to, as regards the funding from the ESDP, etc. I will always be at your disposal, as I will be at the disposal of any Member who wants any cooperation on road safety, because in fact, Mr Papoutsis, I believe that in order for us to be able to have positive effects on road safety, there must be partnership and cooperation. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that in the presence, which I had in the committee responsible, I have diagnosed with great pleasure that there is indeed this will from all the wings of the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Chrysosvelloni. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-four students and students and six educational attendants from the British School of St. Catherine. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are attending a parliamentary control meeting, during which Members come to the House with specific questions to the ministers, in order to resolve various problems, so you do not see too many Members in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member Mrs Theodora Bakoyannis asks, for personal reasons, for a 24-hour absence abroad for Friday 17 June 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u49	The House therefore approved the requested permission. In addition, New Democracy MP Christos Bukoros asks for a short-day absence abroad from 1 July to 7 July 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u50	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We enter the fifth under No. 1000/14-6-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the financial consequences of the procedural inertia. Mr. Kammenos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In the question, as the title says, we will try, from the concern, which has arisen from publications, from my personal experience, to investigate the economic consequences of the procedural failure. We know that in the last six months there have been ongoing abstentions from the courts. The result of this long-term abstention is obviously to benefit people, companies or defendants who are avoiding the consequences of any irregular act. This is a part of the equality between citizens and businesses, which we should explore. It's very important. The second is a matter which we should explore - and it is probably not exactly your responsibility, but I tabled the question to you, to begin with - the footprint on the Gross National Product, namely how much money the Greek State has lost from the abstention of lawyers. And to be clearer, a lawyer's work is a multitude. He'll represent a man to defend him as a civil lawsuit in court for a difference, for example rent. A man doesn't pay his rent, there's no lawyer, and for as long as there's no lawyer and court doesn't pay his rent. So the lessee doesn't collect and the lessee is outlawing. The state cannot give justice and a solution. Secondly, banks, loans, housing or any procedure have to do with a bank with a borrower. For example, the attachment to no real estate cannot be signed in housing loans, so the bank cannot proceed with the issue of a loan. Secondly, the bank has to restructure a loan, cut a loan, prolong it, make another deal. It cannot do so, because in this case it needs a legal performance, because it may be necessary to attach an attachment as a guarantee to the bank in order to proceed with the restructuring. It is certain, but it is not clear that we have huge economic damage to the Greek economy from the abstention of lawyers. I'll come back to my dentistry. Questions, Mr Minister: What is the amount of the public's loss of revenue so far from a long-term strike? How are weak citizens, who are unable to ensure that their case is dealt with or want to make a restructuring of debts? How are exemption permits granted, all defenders who are temporarily defending prisoners are given? And finally, what will happen with cases that have been entered into the Katseli Law and with multitude of trials? They will continue, will they be deleted, will they be deleted? What's gonna happen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Cammene. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Papoutsis, for the question, which raises an important issue under discussion. An important issue, but of course - you will also agree - not the most important one in terms of the administration of justice. As far as the administration of justice is concerned, the most important issue is the awarding, rationality, legality and a secondary point is, before it, the financial benefit of the country from its operation but, in any case, it must be considered. Of course, the abstention of lawyers has an impact on the revenues of the state from the field of justice. They cannot be valued by a month. They are appreciated annually, and at the moment I am not in a position to tell you exactly what the impact might be, given that after the end of the abstention, the density of certain cases can be increased no matter how difficult this is in justice. I must tell you, however, that in response to your questions, which were specific, I addressed the Athens Bar Association and the President of the Athens Bar Association, in his capacity as president and plenary, to have his reply. From the President's reply, which I shall be tabling on behalf of the Minutes, for you too to be able to take note of, there are two points: firstly, the fact that the lawyers have put in place some frameworks which would allow the granting of a licence for a number of cases so that what was necessary for the sake of justice is going on and, secondly, they are not, in fact, in response to Mr Alexandres's reply, the scale of the problem, assuming that the figures which have been heard for a large number of cases, which have been postponed or cancelled, do not correspond in fact. Lawyers think these numbers are smaller. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr Nikolaos Paradopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I can tell you that I am not ready to share all the arguments on the part of lawyers, which I have read, for example, that there was no impact on the conduct of major trials. I believe that the delay in carrying out major trials is a problem where many have to recognise their own percentage of responsibility. As Minister, I have also assumed my responsibility for malfunctions affecting the pace of major trials. I believe that a degree of responsibility for this delay has also been given by the abstention of lawyers, but that is certainly not the most important issue. If need be, I'm able to give more information. Thank you, Mr President, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your reply, Minister. I have to say that, in order to cover ourselves as a serious state and as a state of legality, we must listen to all views. Of course I will read the reply of the President of the Athens Bar Association, but we should see the situation as observers from far away and be honest to all sides. When, for example, the figures say that a bank had planned 1,4 billion euro housing loans for 2016 and this bank in the first four months has given 100 million out of 1.4 billion, which was ready to be granted, it means that we have lost from the market, we have lost transactions, no transfers for hereditary issues, bankruptcies, pre-marks. All this, for us economists, has a clear economic footprint. No transactions shall be made, at least where a lawyer or a lawyer is needed, either in a company or in the State or in the defence or in the civil proceedings to an audience. The numbers are relentless. I say it because we have to talk about it, so that we in the government can fix it. Because of the prolonged legal abstention, only for the prolonged legal abstention, cases which have not been dealt with are three hundred and twenty thousand. That's what I've got and it's been published. All unjust cases go beyond seven hundred thousand. It was one of the issues on which we had been indicted since 2010 and probably quite rightly - you and us as government - the justice system should be restructured and given the opportunity for the company and the natural or legal person to avenge his case soon and of course in the best and fairest way. In conclusion, I would like to say that this infarction in the Greek economy, with regard to the specific issue that we are discussing today and the chaos brought about by the failure to deal with these decisions, will bring, and we will see it at the end of this year, a financial loss. But this government will never blame and will never go on the sidewalk towards lawyers and lawyers because they have their rights. At the same time - I will make a controversy because of Piraeus and my locality - we are messing with port workers. This is relevant, because with the port workers we almost lost fifteen thousand tourists this weekend and we might lose them another weekend from the cruise. There is an economic footprint from a protracted strike. The state must be fair and all together whether they are lawyers or port workers with us, we need to find a solution for the economy to move forward and protect the Gross National Product, which is a national product. It's the words. It's a product for everyone. Trade must happen and justice must be attributed and the citizen and the company must feel that he can find his right to either the one who owes him or the one who owes him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Pinheiro, I do not know exactly what information you have about three hundred and twenty thousand cases. What I must assure you is that I have, however, asked the courts, through the Ministry of Justice, through the central offices, to have the exact number of postponements and cancellations of cases. I'll have him soon and I'll be able to let you know exactly. However, I must say that there has indeed been concern that citizens should not be seriously troubled, at least in critical cases, such as auctions, as are temporary detentions, condoms. There was also special care in cases where there was a threat of limitations. The comfort is that there will obviously be an economic impact, but this is happening at a time when in the general budget, in the general monitoring of the country's revenues, we seem to have a course that goes beyond what is expected. So any deficit will arise, I think it will be absorbed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. In addition, I would like to announce that the eighth question, number 959/7-6-2016, on a second question from the MP of Heraklion, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Emmanuel Synthakis, to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the problems of nursery and childcare stations, is not discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The first, with number 995-14-2016, topical question of the second-cycle Member of the Ietalo-Karnania Coalition of the Radical Left, Maria Triantafylou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the immediate treatment of the water supply problem of the Ietalian Aetolokarnania, is not discussed due to lack of competence. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The Question No 28/22/26-5-2016 of the New Democracy MPs will be discussed. Mrs Mitsotakis, Konstantinos Al. Karamanlis, Antony Samaras, Charalambos Athanasios, Savva Anastasiades, Ioannis Andrianou, Ioannis Antoniadis, Maria Antonios, Photinis Arabatzis, Anna - Misel Asmakopoulou, Eleftherios Augenaki, George Vagios, Miltiades Varvitsiotis, Apostle Vesiropoulos, Constantine Vlas, Georgios Vlachos, Mauroudi (Maki) Vorides, Sophia Vultesis, Ioannis Vroutsis, Georgios Georgios, Spyridos Georgiadis - Adonios Gikoumatiou, Gerastou, Stergiou Giannakis, Vassilis Yoyakassilis, Astantinou, Kystasssiou, Athanasiosiosiosiosiasiosiosiasou, Athanas, Kyssiou, Kyssisiou, Kys Ekradis (Calaisiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiouliasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasos), K. Karamanli, Theodorou Karaoglou, Georgios Karasmani, Georgios Kasapidis, Andreas Katsaniotis, Konstantinos Katsafandou, Simos, Kedikoglou, Christos Kella, Nikos Kerameos, Olga Kefaloniann, Ioannis Kefalokyannis, Vasiliou Kikilia, Emmanouil (Manu) Konstantinos Konstantinos Kontjeorgios, Konstantinos Kokodimos, Georgiou Koutsiakou, Christos bukouros, Athanasios, Vasiliou Meimariotis, Panagiotis (Noti) Mitaraki, Theatos, Ioannis Kostopoulos, Ioannis Tsiliou, Ioannis Kostorostou, Ioannis Kosanisostou, Ioannis Kosiliou, Ioannis Kosiliou, Ioannis Kosiliosstaniakoloou, Ioannisstaniakoou, Ioannis Kosiliou, Ioannis Kossiou, Iostaniakoulou, Ioannis Kossiou The honourable Member will have the floor, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, after announcing the parliamentary representatives who have appointed the parties: From New Democracy Mr.Nolaos Dendias, from SYRIZA Mr. Vassilis Tsirkas, from the Golden Dawn, from Ilias Kasidiaris, from the PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodores Papatheodorou, from Potamis Spyridon Lykoudis, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis, from the Association of Centres Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras. The Communist Party will not have a parliamentary representative. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. There's a big deal about justice. A large share of the judges are dependent - they are the polite wording - while others are part of the wrongfulness of the past and of the present. It's the non-selective wording, the normal wording. She saw Deputy Minister of Health Paulakis yesterday. Before I continue, Minister, I would like to hear your reaction to this. Is there really a big issue with the judiciary, with justice? Secondly, a large share of judges are dependent and there is an outlawing circuit of the present and the past? I want to hear your reaction. It's important for the continuation of my place. If you want, it's not mandatory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u61	I'll give you a reply, but do you want to do it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u62	I'd rather now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u63	Whatever the President says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u64	If you accept that, Minister, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u65	It is at the discretion of the Minister, but I would like to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u66	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u67	The Rules of Procedure provide for this, stop the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u68	If the Minister accepts it, of course, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u69	The Ministry of Justice and I personally trust the Greek justice and the level of its award and the judicial officers in their overwhelming majority. There is no category of politicians, judges, teachers, in which there are no exceptions. The exceptions are those which are also controlled by the institutions and are therefore known to exist - confirmed - so that we do not have more general uncertainties. As absolute as my confidence in justice as a whole is, I must tell you that equally absolute, of course, it is my commitment to the need for pity...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u70	Has Mr. Paulakis resigned?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u71	I don't mind right now. I'm here, I don't have any contact so I know something like that. I reply to Mr Voridis on the question he raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u72	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u73	I repeat, therefore, that trust in the functioning of justice on the part of the Ministry of Justice is complete. I must say, of course, that I consider it a very important individual right and a function of democracy to defend the freeness of speech, which can come from a citizen, can come from a politician. Anyone who exercises power, any power, any function subject to criticism, and in this particular case what Mr Paulakis said, to say that what he said, as I heard them, is not linked to specific persons. This reminds me of the teaching of the teacher of Giannis Manoledakis and a teacher of many of the lawyers in this Chamber, that surfing is important and must be penalised, when it reflects specific persons who can be identified, so it can be defamation or exaltation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u74	You're talking about 181, the old one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u75	The principle of subsistence. In the context of 181 he said that, in his view, the derogatory wording reflects particular persons. If it does not reflect either a statement of meaninglessness - to say it elegantly, he had said it with a strong expression - or is an institutional criticism, which is due to criticism of arguments. Thank you very much for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. Mr Vorides, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you can see, here we are not discussing whether in any body, any body, there are some who are vows. That's not what the Deputy Minister says. He says he knows there are addicted judges and he knows there is an indictmental circuit in justice. He even says - he has a solution for this - that he needs new blood for the judges. To leave these bad guys - who obviously knows them - and to be replaced, I assume by the well-known Paulakis methodology - you know her, the one you get and write who's going to the intensive care units, the Minister will decide, I imagine, had something in mind - and to go to new judges. Evidently your answer leaves him sadly exposed. However, the political issue remains, because a minister - it is not a citizen who speaks virtuously and says no more - a member of your Government comes and says about your space, your area of responsibility, that the judges operate circuits and are dependent on them, and you are right - and you are saying that we honour and respect the judiciary and we have absolute confidence and, obviously, bad people may exist everywhere but we do not talk about it. But here there is a top issue. What will Mr. Paulakis do after this and what will you ask for? I have a further question. Does Mr. Paulakis really know anything and we need to ask him for clarification? Should he tell us the names of the wrongful circuit he knows? Should you call him, possibly to exercise your disciplinary powers, disciplinary powers or others, after the revelations of what Mr Polakis knows? After he knows it, you have disciplinary jurisdiction over the judges, to tell you, to tell us who forms the offense, to exercise disciplinary proceedings, to disciplinary action, and to send them indictees of those jury judges, which Mr Paulakis knows. But if he doesn't tell you, will the Prime Minister call on him to send him to his house so that he doesn't in this brutal way affect his justice and function and you? Because if you supervise an area that is corrupt and your colleague knows that he is corrupt and you do not act, he also affects you. Are these actions going to be taken? We're waiting for them. But, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the New Democracy comes at the right time with the statements by Mr Polakis, because they are not cut off, they are not cut off and they are not on their own. It is not random, it is the product of a certain perception, which has led justice to a severe crisis. What have we been living for all this time, ladies and gentlemen? Minister, you referred to before. We have abstention from the lawyers for six months and from what I hear she will continue. I hear that decisions were taken in most legal associations and a plenary decision is also expected today. Sounds like it's going to continue until 30/6. Six months, then, the country is without justice and that is why the lawyers are not to blame. It is the fault of those who do not discuss with them, those who do not listen to them are those who do not solve their issues, those who have decided to make the insurance contributions fivefold, those who have decided to destroy a whole sector. They go back to the Minister of Justice, who is their chief administrative officer, and they wait to see a solution and there is no further intervention. Justice was left in her luck. Lawyers continue to mobilize the desperate. You understand that, I imagine. Free professionals, who don't work for six months. You understand the anxiety because it is not an easy decision for anyone, both for their trade unions and for each of them. I must tell you that the spirit of lawyers is even further ahead of their trade unions. Their memorials, their assemblies are more militant than their trade unions. They're actually asking for an extension of abstention. Why are they doing this? Because the arrangements are actually completely extinguishing the legal office. What does the government do about this matter? He's been stalking, indifferent six months, the country doesn't have justice. Then we hear the Prime Minister last night telling us how rapid growth is to be achieved. We obviously don't all live in the same place. The second big issue, however, is the huge conflict that is currently tempting within justice. We have unprecedented things! The Prosecutor, a senior judicial officer, denounces Deputy Minister for intervention in a specific project and in the specific handling of criminal proceedings. Subsequently, the President of the Ice Bay will exercise disciplinary action against the Public Prosecutor. Then another Public Prosecutor may assign five of his fellow prosecutors to deal with this case. Subsequently, the controlled businessman apportioning the President of the Ice Bay, implying serious charges, essentially bribery or attempted bribery, and on the other hand, of course, the President of the Ice Bay will reject these complaints falsely and slanderly. It's an incomprehensible situation. Will the Minister say: What can I do? Can I interfere in all this? But the answer is these have a cause. For some reason, they happen. What's the cause? Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has often explained his plan in this Chamber, his theory, his opinion on how things are going. What's that theory? The theory says. There is a corrupt political system, this is the old political system, the old parties, which, at the same time, are interconnected with a corrupt banking system and this corrupt banking system finances corrupt media, which in turn support the corrupt political system. It is the sinful triangle against SYRIZA. But in order for corruption to exist, there must be superficial acts. To verify SYRIZA's theory, it must be seen that something bad has been done here. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I still have a minute. I'm gonna need a little more, not much. So what does it take for the theory to be verified? We need criminal convictions, ladies and gentlemen. Cases need to be taken in which the decision must have been made beforehand. Why do you imagine this whole theorem to be, without on the other hand there being a criminal conviction, without a political involvement, without a relationship that proves all this theorem? We need criminal convictions. Hence the statements in this case that the case-file was removed - this was described as a coup, I will then tell you - from the operator to go to another allegedly illegal prosecutor. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. When? Before the criminal prosecution is carried out. How did they know that there was to be criminal prosecution? How did they know that one of the prosecutors would prosecute criminal proceedings, while the other prosecutor would not prosecute? Here, then, there is a militant position of SYRIZA, which says that in specific criminal cases, they must go and be judged in a certain way that serves their political plan. Hence interventions in justice, hence the necessity for judges to judge according to what serves the SYRIZA's political plan, hence the fact that when they do not judge, they are targeted by SYRIZA's friendly media. But that, Minister, is what chaos has to do with justice, because when these interventions are made, the judges are obviously working to defend themselves. When this cycle begins, there are obviously 'good' judges who serve the SYRIZA project and 'bad' judges who are responding. This division has today watered justice and that is why you are absolutely responsible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Voridis. Mr Javarras has the floor for five minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, I will in fact give you this question of what we are asking you, personally, of what you are of unknown academic value, which you are a man, who today confirms with the statement you have made earlier your decency and above all your commitment to the functioning of the democratic culture, which must be free of vulgarity. Why don't you tell me that there are today in this Chamber of Members, who are not ashamed of Mr Polakis' statement. In this antidemocratic vulnerability, the Prime Minister himself must finally set a limit, an end. It is not possible for the judiciary to take such attacks when it is assumed that in these critical times, if there is one last refuge for the citizen it is justice. What we are asking today, of course, is for you to take steps to rectify the authority of justice. When we talk about the authority of justice, Minister, you know me well that we are not talking about a word with too much air and zero content. The prestige is the symbolic capital managed by the Minister of Justice, it is the symbolic capital that has to do with the authority of the state itself. That is why the institutions also entrust the Justice Minister with the safeguarding of the State's Great Seal. So you, with the authority you have, must respond to this obligation that arose in the years of the Roman state from the word 'dignitas'. Unfortunately, the time and use of this word have given its translation, the notion of dignity. But this notion of dignity and of a number of ideological affluences suffered by this concept over the centuries has now come not to declare what it originally stated. What did he say? That the official is obliged to avoid any act which insults the validity of his office. The institution of office must be preached mainly of the prestige and value of what the state has entrusted him. Unfortunately nothing but these days, under SYRIZA's rule, we see this happening. Why? The first example, which is negative and intolerable for every democrat, is the behaviour of Mr Papagelopoulos. I said this at the sitting - you were present - the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. A Deputy Minister, who, under the terms of the Prime Minister's decision No 14/2015, has specific powers, including no contact with the judiciary, who has no power - on the basis of his powers - to preside and direct the judges or prosecutors, has come to us as a whole in the committee, but also in the public interest to prove that there are procedurals that "symptoms". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will allow me to take the time of my dentistry. But he has no right in particular, with his powers, nor even to "smell" the pleadings. That is why what Mr Papagelopoulos is doing is that he does not preach his office and decency and the democratic way in which he should serve him. On the other hand, there are a series of events that tend in this direction. What is happening today in the field of justice is evidently the result of a divisive effort, which is being made to group the judges, in the context of the most important functioning of the state. It is obvious - and everyone knows it - that around specific poles of judicial service, judicial authority, there is a tendency to group. This can only be fought through concrete measures. You and the prestige, I think, but also the morale to fight it, as a symptom of the misfunction of the institutions. It is obvious and that is what we demand from you. I believe, however, that the difficulty you and many other decent ministers of this government have arisen from an intrinsic embarrassment you are in. Because while your mind is full of left-wing ideas and even anachronistic content, you are invited to serve liberal institutions, a democracy that is associated with a constitution that imposes a certain way of working both on the government and on the Prime Minister and on the other state institutions. There is no worse, really, moment for a citizen and for an official to have in mind a lot and nothing to do. It is what Herod wrote once and for all: "It is a painful place, of those who are in this humanity, many who have thought nothing to last." Unfortunately, this is your case and I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Mr. Tasoula will have the floor for five minutes. Do you want to use your dentistry for five plus three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u81	No, Mr President, thank you. Mr President, today we are discussing a question of the package of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which is the first signatory of its President, Mitsotakis, on the unprecedented situation in which justice has come over the days of Sri Lanka. I understand, Minister of Justice, that the words 'premature','retaliatory','retardation', have suffered an abuse, especially in this Chamber, and there may also be a mismatch in their hearings and in the Greek people as well as in the colleagues of this House. I correct: 'To the honourable Members of this House.' However, there are signs showing the unprecedented deterioration of justice. First, the three-way state service has not existed in our country for six months. The State that is empowered does not exist today. As you know, there is the state that legislates - urgently, but it legislates - there is the state that governs - it runs as you are, badly - there is also the state that is judiciary, which has not been in existence since the strike of the lawyers and because of your refusal to discuss their issues infinitely, having led to an unprecedented massage of cases, which will be very difficult to get rid of when this strike is stopped at one time. We are in front of an unprecedented phenomenon, which one could interpret in many ways. The goodwill is to interpret the situation in justice as a weakness, as an inexperience, as an attempt, as Mr Javarras described, to implement opinions that were marginal and in terms of resonance, but also in terms of logic, to implement them in practice. As you know, the letters and other things say. I am compiling myself with another more disappointing, more depressing concept, which says that in the area of justice you are acting in a settled way and proves it to be these cases of intervention in justice and this abuse of your disciplinary authority, but also all these stories that are not random or impulsive, which are also embarrassing to you, Mr Papagelopoulos or Mr Polakis, who each with his style speaks of circuits, of judges who are part of a para-state mechanism and obviously seek blood policies, perhaps Mr Polakis, whose immunity was yesterday and feels that he is asking for his blood, because his immunity has been brought to the attention of the mayor. So all this is part of a regiment that wants to maintain the only argument you have as SYRIZA and the only argument that has brought you up from the margin of political life to governance. And this argument is the audacity, it is the indignation, it is the anger of the Greek people. The Greek people - I repeat - for twenty years the coalition placed it at 3% to 4%. When the Greek people suffered the unprecedented hardships of the economic crisis and decided to break out with anger and complaint and indignation, SYRIZA reached 36%. I agree curiously with Mr. Tsipras that the Greek people are not eating spoon. He didn't eat gossip when he put you at 3% and 4% and now that he's decided to put you up to power, he did it because he was filled with us. He hadn't been filled with appreciation for you. The maintenance of this psychological situation of the Greek people has been shared with every Minister. The debt of the justice sector is to sustain the grasp of the Greek people for the so-called 'old system' by means of constructions. The constructions are not easily achieved. They're achieved by burial, slandering. They are achieved with an attempt to subjugate justice. There must be an institutional proof that the earlier political system is vicious and corrupt. So the duty of the Ministry of Justice is not to resolve justice, it is not to speed up justice, it is not to strengthen the sense of justice that the Greek people have, but it is his duty to build constructions that preserve and confirm the anger and anger of the Greek people. All this, however, is party games on sacred institutions, in institutions trusted by the Greek people. And today, the undoubted Minister for Health comes in defending the question of New Democracy, in order to prove, with his attitude and the embarrassment he has led you, that you understand the institutions - and the supreme ones, such as justice - only in connection with the division and cultivation of incubators. Minister, I am not sure that the much calmer and more comprehensive concept that you seem to have about things does not hide other ideas within it. I hope your embarrassment is greater than your attempt to control justice and build constructions. And I wish your discomfort to succeed. If I were you, Minister of Justice, I would do something grander today than wait for Mr. Paulakis to resign. I would resign myself as a professor of law against all that the SYRIZA Government and the "Police" are working against justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. Here, Mr Athanasios, you have the floor for five minutes to begin with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the situation in which Greek justice is found on the occasion of the topical question tabled by the New Democracy is absolutely essential. And it is absolutely necessary - I dare say - for some time now. That is why we, too, raised the issue - as we should - first of all in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. However, the discussions that took place in the committee did not only reassure us of our concerns, but they did increase them. That is why the timely question that led to the debate today was also a one-way one for us, but also an act of responsibility. Much more today, Minister, is now becoming more timely and necessary, following the statements made by Mr Polakis, whom I ask the House to condemn. Mr President, I think that you too can take the initiative to condemn the statements made by Mr Polakis, who are afflicting the functioning of our constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to consider where we are at the moment in the field of justice. The six-month period has already elapsed, approximately, abstention of lawyers from their duties. He also developed what are the adverse consequences for the Greek people and the administration of justice for citizens. This abstention has completely paralyzed justice. Hundreds of thousands of cases have gone back. It will take years to restore normality to the pace of its award. And, of course, responsibility for this situation is not burdened by anyone but the government. The prolonged abstention has dismantled them financially and are now in despair. Lawyers are constantly made by the stress of their own survival and family. The truth, however, is that the institutionalities in the area of justice have started early, since the so-called so-called negotiations and the referendum - parody, in which you led the country. On the eve of June 29, at the same time as the referendum procedures, the government abolishes the usual tactics of the previous governments, who kept the yearbook in the highest courts, and carries out an unprecedented dip to it in order to reach the appointment of Ms Thanos as President of the Ice Bay. Those who observe what has been said in the field of justice knew that this position has long been predetermined, as Mrs Thanos alone was not impartial against the political forces of the country during her term as President of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, with the culmination of an unfamiliar letter to Jean-Claude Juncker. Indeed, even though the need for the appointment of Presidents existed for the other highest courts in the country, it was never explained by the Government why it had to be appointed President of the Ice Bay before the referendum, nor was there any need for the other highest courts, since on 30 June 2015 the positions of the Presidents of the Council of State and of the Court of Auditors and of the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Courts were vacant. And that was not all, but during the promotions you have omitted forty-seven senior judiciary officials who dedicate justice - yes, ladies and gentlemen - forty-seven judges who really dedicate Greek justice to their lives and work. In any case, why did you choose only President of the Ice Bay? I'll tell you why. To preside over - take care, not to become Prime Minister - the Supreme Court under Article 101 of the Constitution, which, among other things, has the power to judge the validity and results of the referendum, in view of the fact that, as regards the validity, there were basic objections that a referendum cannot be held on budgetary matters in accordance with the Constitution, but also in view of the results that have never been implemented, since the Greek people said 'no' to the measures of EUR 8 billion and nothing happened. Both my spokesmen and my predecessors, Mr Rupakiotis and Mr Papaioannou - I say about the previous ones - but also Mr Dendias, we respected the antiquity of the judiciary, because we wanted to preserve the authority of justice in a difficult period for the country, which was all subjected to trial. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will take some time from my dentistry. We wanted our judges to feel safe and free from the choices of the government, of whatever government. But I say to you that the Greek judges are not terrorized and are not prepared to be pleasurable to any political power. So nourish yourself if you hope in their manipulation. Unfortunately, this was only the beginning of evil, the beginning of a series of sound interventions in the field of justice. A few months later, the President of the Ice Bay, like the other Presidents of the Supreme Courts, first acquire in time and disciplinary control, with an amendment to an unrelated bill. In the serious objections to the whole of the Opposition, which pointed out the dangers and shouted that it was not possible to encourage the judges to control them and disciplinaryly, the Government in our complaints replied with half-a-half. The amendment, however, was voted on. We have all reasonably wondered about the feasibility of this provision. Do not claim that the prosecution officer, when exercising it, cannot participate in the Supreme Judicial Council to judge the judges. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Because when the Ministerial Council, ladies and gentlemen, meets to decide on the President of the Supreme Court, he knows on the pretext that this will be the highest disciplinary body. Soon it appeared that nothing was random. The Tsatani case, in which the prosecutor directly complained against the Deputy Minister of Justice, for interference in her work and with threats to her, came here. This is a unique action in the years for which only convincingly can the explanations given by Mr Papagelopoulos to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency be considered. On the contrary, more questions are raised from his general viewpoint rather than from his point of view any concerns are reassured. At the same time, it was decided - by chance! - disciplinary investigation against the complainant for the same case. Who took the relevant investigation, ladies and gentlemen? But, of course, the President of the Ice Bay herself, who has applied for an exception, which, of course, is very serious, Minister, and is a procedural diversion, which has not emerged - in fear of the general outcry, what is he doing? Instead of introducing the request for exemption to the competent Council, in order to determine its validity, it shall charge the case to the Vice-President of the Ice Board. While she was certain of her actions, she had to be left to the board’s judgement, to judge whether she was lawfully carrying out this particular disciplinary check. And we have come to the relatively recent developments. For the first time in history, at least as far as I know, he is publicly denounced and sued President of the Ice Bay for attempting to blackmail and bribery. And I explain, ladies and gentlemen. I don't adopt the complaints to explain. And no one is able to know exactly what happened. However, I wonder what really would have happened if, on the previous government, when SYRIZA showed at every opportunity its own moral advantage, he was alleged to be a supreme judiciary for the sake of which he was deeply dived in the year round. There is no doubt that this would have been a disgrace and a good point, if necessary. Today, however, the government is acting as if the complaint had never been made, as a trivial issue that should concern only the newspaper footnotes. At the same time, of course, as a counterweight, the press releases against senior judicial officers, including the outgoing prosecutor of the Ice Bay, on your own order, Minister. I wonder, then, who will carry out this disciplinary check. I hope not the disciplinary chief President of the Ice Bay. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when Greek citizens more than ever need a fair and impartial justice, this has now come to a situation that has not been answered in the past. It is functionally paralyzed and institutionally seriously degraded. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] It shows in general an image of dissolution and disintegration. Most importantly, however, there is a feeling that there is almost a manipulation of justice by the executive in order to serve the political purposes of the latter. You must know, however, that the Greek judiciaries are neither manipulated nor terrorised, because the regulations we have achieved so far, under the rules of independence which the Constitution itself ensures, feel safe and independent to serve the fairs of the citizens and the rule of law. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Eleftherios Venizelos said that justice is sensitive like butterfly, which, when you take it, cannot fall again. Let's all help make the butterfly fly again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. You spoke for five plus four minutes, Mr. Athanasios. Mr Georgios has the floor. Will you use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u85	Only my prology, Mr President. I'll talk for five minutes, I'll be exact. Mr Minister of Justice, yesterday a member of your Government showed you to a minimum as insufficient to perform the duties assigned to you by the Prime Minister. With the responsibility for the proper functioning of all areas of justice, you have allowed, according to the Minister, in his public speech, the existence of injudicial circuits and the phenomenon of having dependent judges. This report made it a member of the Government, in which you will be invited to sit next to the next Ministerial Council. I think, Minister, as the previous speakers have rightly said, that today is a great day for both justice and for you. We have the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, which, in a statement, calls on the President of the Republic to intervene on this statement. The Union of Judges and Prosecutors speaks of an institutional diversion. You admit that what has been said is not true, and that we all want to believe, that is what the Greek people want to believe. If today those responsibilities which all those who have the institutional obligation to do so are not taken on board, tomorrow any judge who goes up to court will have the right to address the declarant to the people who will be there for any matter, as it is now legal to tell anyone, after the Minister of Government has said so. Do you understand what the Judiciary will get? Do you understand how unreliable, unreliable and lack of any guarantee for the proper functioning of justice will come, if we leave this situation today as it stands, as a mere statement by a graphic minister? He's a member of the government and you'll be sitting next to him tomorrow. I therefore think that this issue should be resolved immediately today. You know him the way you know him, the Prime Minister knows him. Because I don't think Mr. Paulakis knows him. So you have a duty today to do so. If you read the timely question tabled by the members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group on Justice, you really see why it was tabled. We do not want to create issues. We must not deal with matters of justice. But some things really happened for the first time. So this is what we are talking about in the timely question that has been made for the first time and which are very serious reasons for making us concerned about interventions in the field of justice, and the statement of yesterday's debate has also been added and, unfortunately, confirming the content of our timely question. And now the possibility, responsibility and necessity are to you, to do the right thing. Minister of Justice, the legal world in principle, but in general the legal world, has the feeling that you are at the Ministry, but you are more of a quality - you will allow me to say - the observer of events and developments. You have left other roles that do not belong to them. But these roles lead essentially to interventions in justice. Even the Prime Minister's own statements from the Step of the House, with which persecution is being proclaimed, are institutionalities. You have let the Deputy Minister intervene in matters that you shouldn't and give the impression that you just observe the facts. You are the responsible person, you are the responsible one, and you have an obligation to finish all these issues which create a political field and a political framework, which will, unfortunately, allow tomorrow the possibility of intervention and the creation of a climate where each judge will now feel unsafe and uncovered. So you have to finish this today. Not only the fact that happened yesterday, but everything that has been said before, with your clear initiatives and with a clear attitude, which is demanded not only by the legal world but by the entire Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Georgioda. Please, Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor. Will you use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u87	Yes, Mr. President. I'm gonna use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u88	Good, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, if we had submitted our topical and urgent question today, it would certainly not have been the text. This text would also have been discussed with what happened yesterday, following the statements made by the Deputy Minister for Health of Mr Polakis. I will not repeat them, but I would like to ask you directly, Minister, because you have taken it around. What you said about Greek judges in their overwhelming majority has been said in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. I will read to you exactly what I said back then and you and I welcomed it: "The Greek judges, who, in their overwhelming majority, exercise their duties with integrity and seriousness, having a full consciousness of their duties, must feel safe, away from outside actors and pressures, wherever they come from." On the other hand, if you condemn Mr Polakis' statements, you have no place in the same government. Apart from the fact that the government's responsibility is collective and the government's collective responsibility is first reflected in the President of the Government, the Prime Minister. We directly ask Mr. Tsipras: Can there be from today a government of SYRIZA, with Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis? As Minister of State - I am sorry to say this, you know that I have rightly said about your dignity and your scientific authority - you have a delightful role today to defend this choice of Prime Minister. Because Mr. Paulakis is the Prime Minister's choice. What Mr Paulakis said raises a huge issue in justice, much greater than what we refer to in our topical question, denounceing the absent person today, who should be here, your Deputy Minister, the extra-parliamentary, Mr Papagelopoulos. Because what else did he do? Intervention in justice made, confessed interference in justice. Because in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, Mr Papaggiopoulou confessed everything that was denounced by the Prosecutors' Prosecutors, Mrs Tsatani. He confessed. And I told him yesterday in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency: 'Do you confess that?' He said to me: 'It is your opinion, I did not admit it'. So you have a happy role to defend both of these faces. Moving forward, I will speak a little bit about not giving justice. You referred to numbers for which you will be acquainted. Because I have been a little concerned with this issue - I don't have the expertise, you know what I have - I learned that there are three hundred and seventeen thousand outstanding cases at this time, that at this time at the Athens Court of Appeal there are cases for 2018 and many of them are a felony character and tend to write off. When will this matter be resolved? I got evidence from the Peace Court, too. At the Peace Court, which at the moment most requests are for subjection to the Kaceli Law, they are set for 2028. Because you said you'd bring in evidence. All these problems have an impact on the national economy, have an impact on citizens' time and money. They must be solved at last. When Mr Papagelopoulos asked me: “What should I do with lawyers? I said to them, 'No, to solve their problems, where you can solve them'. No, as Mr Vorides did, 65% to 70% of their income goes to tax obligations and contributions to their funds. So you realise that there is a huge problem that needs to be solved. The main point, however, is that there are legislative interventions which prejudge the outcome of judicial proceedings. I'll say it straight away. I am referring also to Article 106 of the Multifibre Arrangement, but I am also referring to Article 68. Because with these legislative interventions, which have taken place, there has been a decision by a court of law which justified legislative intervention. If this is not an indirect interference with justice, then what else is it? So you realize that there are huge problems. I will not say anything about the quality of justice, because by coincidence we are hearing candidates now at the Conference of Presidents on the promotion of the Supreme Court. Of course, here there was an answer from Mr Papagelopoulos that he dived and omitted forty-seven. He said, "But fourteen seats were judged. You had one dive and you missed ten. So I was able to omit a hundred and fifty." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. It is, of course, about something that happened twenty years ago. He showed his mentality and what you are thinking of doing about the upcoming promotions of judges when Mr Athanasios, as Mr. Athanasios quite rightly said, but also Mr. Dendias, with religious devotion, did not go into the process to override the years. You're gonna say, is that right? Sure. Yearbooks must be kept where it is to be observed and not to say and imply that there can be also a hundred and fifty dives. It says "One to ten gives me the right to make a hundred and fifty changes". These are things which have been addressed to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. We will be given the opportunity to hear the Advocate-General of the Court of Appeal, Mr Tsatani, who has made the press reports against Mr Papaggiopoulou, and that is where we will say much more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Tragakis. Mrs Papacosta has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u92	Mrs. Papakostas, will you use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u93	Yes, of course, Mr President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a topical question of the New Democracy, which is no longer timely, because it was tabled on 26 May 2016 and is being discussed today. So you realize that it is no longer timely. However, this topical question is being debated under the burden of the murder of the British MP, who was murdered for her ideas and, as you can see, this debate is being conducted under the shadow of blind fanaticism, which seems to be hijacking in Europe's democracies, unfortunately. This morning, the judges of the country are asking the President of the Republic because they consider him a guarantor of the country, not a prime minister - there is the sperm of doubt, ladies and gentlemen, as far as his Minister is concerned - to intervene in order to restore an institutional diversion. In such a climate, this institutional diversion of polarization, blind fanaticism, division has occurred here and elsewhere. Of course, we are wondering whether the judges are asking the President of the Republic to intervene, because they certainly consider him a guarantor of the country or why they do not trust - I said before about the sperm of doubt - the Prime Minister of the country that he will remove his Minister, who has, in a dangerous way, contributed to creating an even heavier atmosphere in the country, even greater than the one that prevails in Europe's democracies following the murder of the British MP. So I say to you, Minister, that you should pass, as a competent Minister, on the New Democracy's request as an Opposition Officer, which is an essential and fundamental institutional pillar of democracy, to give up, if he fails to understand it, the Minister who ex-institutionally offended justice. And you have already tried to say - in my opinion, but you have taken your distance - 'We are looking at justice, trusting justice and defending justice' as an essential minister. The request by the Officer-in-Office is to do his duty, because obviously the Greek judges do not trust his judgment, that in any case he will be removed, although I think that should have happened by this time. Minister, this is not a personal matter. I don't care about the Minister's name. It's not personal. They are institutionally the demands we make. It is entirely political, which we are putting and which is a very political demand from the New Democracy to the main Prime Minister of the country. You can pass it on. To be transmitted with you to your government president. Now, the government is wondering why - it says - we refer to it, and particularly to the question of justice, by means of the timely question. Breech's answering this. If you do not understand, Minister, the principle of doubt which Breech invokes and which he calls as 'blessed', is precisely about the New Democracy's topical question, and should be welcomed. Because I will tell you what Breech said with two lyrics: 'Blessed be the doubt! I advise you to honour him - so we - 'who is considering your word as a polluting model', which I fully adopt and I address to you today. So we're looking at you, and we want answers. So listen, I will leave the text because I have told you that it is no longer timely. However, it is topical that the text of the topical and urgent question is being negotiated. Tell me, what do you have to answer, Minister, that you are essentially responsible for the elements of the World Bank, the European Commission, the OECD, which rank our country in the last place for all cases and rank our judicial system as the fourth slowest in the world after Guinea-Bissau, Surinam and Afghanistan? What do you have to say? What do you have to say, that in the list of eighty-nine countries our country, Greece, is in the thirteenth place in the administration of justice? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. What do you have to say about the cost of delays in the administration of justice, which ranks our country in the fourth worst position among OECD member countries? Of course, what do you have to tell us about the need on average for the resolution of administrative disputes for a thousand five hundred days, that is, more than four years? What do you have to say - why is it a government choice - Minister? Are you going to give these answers - to change the insurance system, which hit the country's lawyers and insurance and tax? I have to tell you that the position of lawyers will be justified, because quite simply the unconstitutionality of the insurance arrangements has also been confirmed by the scientific report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, which is quite clear. What do you have to say about that? I shall conclude, Mr President. Thanks for the tolerance. Please tell me, please, and what do you say about the fact that it will take between seven and ten years to restore the normal rules for Greek justice? Cases entered into the Katseli Act, citizens who fight, are even avenged beyond 2030. The great trials that last for many months, such as the Golden Dawn trial, the "SIEMENS" case, the Baptist case, the case of armaments programs and dozens of others, are pending. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. They are not on trial, Minister, for tax matters, of which the Greek state is losing huge revenue. Of course, the Athens Bar Association, the largest of the country, estimates that the losses of contributions - because I heard your answer, you did not answer Mr Kammenos's colleague, you said 'I cannot tell you what the losses are' - in relation to last year, they are over EUR 1 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u94	Please finish, Ms. Papakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u95	In closing, Minister, I must tell you that if you do not give these answers, it means that you are not just an observer, but you are a walker from your ministry, and I am sorry to say it. And you owe answers to the Greek people, because he judges you, he evaluates you through the Civilian Opposition and through our opposition. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too. Before giving the floor to the Minister, I would like to inform the House that Mr Kikilias from New Democracy is requesting a short-day leave for a transition to Germany from Tuesday 21 June to Thursday 23 June 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u97	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Agreement for the Coordination Committee at the South-East European Defence Council (SEDM)’. B. Other: ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland on cooperation in the field of Defence Materials’. C. Other: ex II. ‘Structuring the administrative arrangement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the ATENSM mechanism regarding transport and transport services provided by the Multinational Maritime Strategy Coordinating Centre (POSETHAM)’. Minister, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin, without tension, with some answers to the sporadic remarks I have heard. I heard about my embarrassment about smiling or smiling. Look, I'm cool. Where did you see her embarrassed? I really also have self-government in my works, as Minister of Justice, and today before you, I really am going to answer you with great comfort. But if you think I'm embarrassed, as Mr. Tasoulus said, but under embarrassment there is something, a passion unforgettable, Mr. Tasouula, to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u99	Whispering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u100	Whispering. Well done. That's better. Mr Javarra, what I will say is cogitationis poenam nemo Patitur. You don't care what's inside of me, Mr. Tasoula. You are interested in my works and my words. You can judge this as much as you like. My inner thoughts, let me see them with my confessor, my psychoanalyst. It's none of your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u101	So something's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u102	I think I've answered you so clearly that, if you didn't understand, you're characterizing yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u103	You just misunderstood us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u104	Secondly, you remembered dignitas. And you're right to remember her. And you said how different it is from the modern concept of dignity. You're right. However, let me also say my personal opinion on the dignitas difference in dignity, even if in parentheses, Mr Javarra. You did well to remind me. I think that in relation to the Roman dignitas, the ancient Greek idea of dignity, but also the modern one, is exactly the opposite. No, it's just not about, it's the opposite. For the Romeo, dignitas was the excellence of the prominent. For modern culture dignity is the minimum, which every man has within him. That is the cantian concept, that is the concept, which is accepted by constitutional law and by liberalism as a whole today. So you're right, and you're crossing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u105	That's why I referred...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u106	As far as embarrassment is concerned, to come back, apart from answering Mr Vorides as clearly as I could, and because these discomforts are accompanied by the well-known meetings of the House on the incompetence of the Minister of Justice, who is watching as an observer - I have already heard that I am a walker, I wish I had time to walk, I would need it very much - to say: I recalled that this Ministry of Justice is particularly active in legislative production, in the introduction of legislation in this House, and in the near future there will be a flow of legislation on its part. It is both rapid and multiproductive in actions and actions. It is also doing everything it can in terms of infrastructure, in the field of prisons and in the field of courts, where there is an intensive search for buildings. So where's the inactivity? I told you this last time: the inappropriateness is that this ministry is very stubborn to intervene in justice. There, of course, is inertial. And if I say "private" and say "absolutely from" of any interference in justice, it is because I am disgraceful about the coordinate capabilities and responsibilities that the Minister of Justice has for contact or, if you like, to control justice. They are the well-known powers which exist in the government regarding the disciplinary powers of the Minister of Justice and the assessment of the highest judges, with the judgments made annually. I come to my basic answer to the question you have put.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u107	Aren't you going to answer my questions? Aren't you going to do me the honor of answering?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u108	First of all, I would say that the great interest shown by the Opposition and in particular by the major opposition in recent days in justice is certainly a good thing. For my part, I unreservedly welcome this. I would suggest that this interest should lead to a criticism which is acute, a criticism of anti-population towards the government. On the part of the government and the position of the Minister of Justice myself, I will strongly criticise the actions of the opposition, but let this acute criticism remain in the field of politics, the executive power. Let us just leave justice a little quiet, engulf the spirits, which seemed to be a little more prosperous. I know that many Vice-Presidents share the view that some phenomena should not be exacerbated, which may exist in disputes of disagreement, and that our role is to contribute to the harmonious functioning of justice and not to the intensity of some of the differences that may exist within it. However, now that I am critical of my reply, I would say that what, through the question that has been asked, at least caused a question, is the contradictions which I will try to present - and the misrepresentations of certain established institutions of the Greek legal order, particularly destruction. This is also very obvious in the case of criticism of the Polakis declarations. On the one hand, I hear the wording which refers to a very big problem now facing justice, functional, incompetence, etc., and on the other hand, there is criticism of Mr Polakis, who has made a corresponding criticism. I'd say the catastrophe...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u109	Do you consider it critical?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u110	Look, I didn't interrupt anyone. I must say that I have heard too much, with which I am absolutely opposed. I didn't interrupt anyone. That is why I would ask you to listen to me and then criticise me in your dentistry and perhaps have an interesting dialogue for everyone and for those who are watching us for themselves. But listen, please. Don't interrupt me. So what are the contradictions, which I personally have to point out: I think that, first of all, there is a major contradiction and, indeed, a time-consuming one - that is, all these days - on the point where the criticism of counter-population is identified in the work of the Ministry of Justice or the Government. At first, the criticism was at the expense of the government's excessive intervention against justice. You have told us that we are constantly intervening in justice and we are not leaving it independent. The last question has the center of gravity reversed. "Why don't you step in," he says, "why do you turn away from problems?" From the beginning, was there in sperm, why do you "why do you do not act?" At the moment, it comes to the main position: 'There are so many issues worthy of penal control, worthy of disciplinary control', of course, I shall refer to 'why is the Minister not intervening?' Of course, I would say that I have the impression that there is a contradiction between the interest in independence of justice, but also the wording of a question by all the Members of the Grand Representation, just in the days of the judiciary, a question which concerns both its judgment and its characteristics, but also those who are in justice. I believe that this does not help sobriety, merit and lack of polarisation, with which these crises should be carried out. The second feature, which I see in the question, is her one-sided and selective interest. Above all, it seems that the interest is in assessing - disciplinary, criminal - a petition made by a citizen against the President of the Ice Bay. The choice where do I see him? I see him in the fact that no equal emphasis has yet been placed on the fact that a prosecutor's attorney has made a similar reference, which also seems to refer to the responsibilities of senior justice officials. The main interest is identified in the report by a private investor. I must assure you that the private press reports against the President of the Ice Bay, of course, are dealt with in the way the institutions are doing. I did not go too far to say in detail because, I believe, we need to express ourselves as bold as possible on these issues. In particular, I think that disciplinary procedures should be secret and should not be mentioned in the disciplinary activities that concern justice in detail, because the citizen must trust the judge who has before him. In any case, the self-evident thing will be said. Of course, the competent bodies have investigated a report which has been made. I must say that the President of the Ice Bay has also notified me of a letter from the President of the Ice Bay, which she is calling for the rapid investigation of the petitions issued on her face by a citizen, who even happens to be a party. I must also say to you - without wanting to underestimate any individual cases, I am not referring to any individual cases - you will be aware that justice as a whole, but also to the Ministry of Justice, is overwhelmed by complaints from citizens, who consider that they have been wronged by judges in various cases. In fact, the Ministry of Justice's phone is being flooded, and Mr Athanasios, who was Minister and Mr Denkias, and those who were in this position, a Ministry of Justice from complaints by individuals, who started with complaints about the handling of their cases, will know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u111	Another complaint, Minister, and other contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u112	Another feature of the question is what I have announced, namely that there seems to be no suspension before the need for secrecy, particularly with regard to disciplinary investigations. I understand that in other cases I have been asked about disciplinary procedures before, and that I did not respond made the impression of inaction. Askers should be aware that the secrecy of at least the disciplinary procedures is an institutional good, which must be safeguarded and that, when the Minister says 'I do not answer', it means 'I do not answer' and it does not mean 'I did nothing'. Obviously, what is provided for in the legislation is done. And let me tell you a little more detail about my personal policy on disciplinary proceedings in the critical period. It is a responsibility, of course, which it entrusts to the Minister for Constitution and our institutional order. It is exclusive as far as the highest judges are concerned, it is divisive as to the other officials of justice. It is essential in some cases that this disciplinary authority is essential, but I can assure you with great enthusiasm. When? When a press report has been made, which comes from an institution, and that is why it is certainly urgent to investigate it. I will do so on a case-by-case basis if a criminal procedure proceeds to the stage where serious evidence of guilt has now been found, even before the final conviction or before the trial, and if necessary, there has been no disciplinary action. If that happens - and I say it hypothetically - I think that the Minister should intervene or intervene where his powers are exclusive and cannot exercise disciplinary powers. In this pitiful way I am intervening and certainly I have done so in cases, which are not many, but are not too few and are not insignificant. And because the criticism of the Ministry of Justice, in relation to the judges' judgments, comes back to me to repeat something that I have said before you again, but of course it is a big issue and are constantly asking questions. The Constitution does not ask for judges' judgments to be made on the basis of antiquity. First of all, if antiquity were sufficient to promote judges, it could be promoted on the basis of the circumstances, by engaging and mobilising the secretaries of the courts who know about the yearbook. The Constitution obviously wants dignity and wants political confidence. This is exactly what he tries to get drunk by also referring to the judiciary for judges, which arises from their promotions throughout their career, but also from the fact that he asks...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u113	Minister, we didn't hear well. I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u114	I said the Constitution, according to my personal appreciation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u115	It requires political confidence, you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Tasoula, I know the importance of the words I use. So I said that in my view the Constitution asks for two things. One is deservedness, and the second is political confidence in justice, given that justice is given in the name of the sovereign people, and that means that our Constitution wants justice to be exercised in this way, and that is why democracy, the appreciation of sovereignty and the principle of justice in the promotions, but also in the Ministerial Council. That's what our Constitution wants right now. How did the present government do it? It went into crises which in no way led to extreme unrecognition of antiquity. For example, we have never gone beyond the circle of Vice-Presidents to elect a President, despite the fact that the Court of Justice, the legislation in force in crisis allows for the existence and overrun of the Vice-Presidents' circle and for the choice to be made even to the oldest in terms of the Areopagites' term of office. The fact that this is what the law wants means is that the law believes that this must be done once. But let us also see the antiquity you invoke. Of course antiquity is an important criterion. Why? Because antiquity incorporates dignity. He who is older, has served more years in justice and has accumulated more experience, so more knowledge, so he is remarkable. But that is important when comparing a judge who has been in justice for thirty-five years with a judge who has been in justice for twenty-five years. If he compares a judge, who has remained thirty-five years and two months with another who has remained thirty-five years and one month and is therefore lacking in one place in antiquity, from this distance of one to one month over a period of time, no conclusions can be drawn on merit. The large number of omission judges constantly repeated by Mr Athanasios, the forty-seven omissions, is due to the fact that last year, in 2015, we had a change of leadership over all the major courts, and this year is not the case, so the number will inevitably be much smaller, as well as to the fact that we have returned to the practice that has been in place for many years, not to be promoted in the key positions of President and Vice-Presidents who will leave in the course of a year, because the assignment of administrative tasks definitely presupposes some time for the implementation and control of crises, and it is certainly a turbulence of justice to have such a rapid rotation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u117	There were only four of the forty-seven. Forty-three?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u118	I would also like to say that a feature of the question, and perhaps some of the moments in the debate today, is the use of some of the 'Koreas', I would say not of journalism, I would say - in my view - of bad journalism, which is constantly referring to world origins, 'that never happened again' and so forth. Of course, checks have been carried out by supreme judges and in the past, not only disciplinary against President Ice Bay. A complaint has also been filed against an Ice Arrow's attorney, and even by a minister who himself had been a court of law in the past. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] I think that what should make us quiet is the fact that, in general, justice is not today all characterised by these tensions. These are limited. However, institutionally, disputes, complaints, and all these are controlled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, could I have two more minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u119	Sure. Continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would like to say that I have heard criticism of the situation of justice, of the large number of pending cases and are ranked last on the OECD list of outstanding cases. The OECD list in 2016 was published on the basis of the 2014 figures. On the contrary, the figures currently being mentioned show that we have more definitions and at least in certain areas of justice, a reduction in the burden of cases. The evidence shows that now in Athens the number of cases that are dealt with is twice the number of cases that are brought in. As far as the identification of the Peace Courts is concerned, I have heard that the determinations have reached 2028. I have to tell you that when we received and first compared, we also found definitions in 2031. Currently throughout the region of Attica, the most delayed definitions in the Peace Courts are made in 2018 and that in general the speed of identification of cases in the Peace Court has increased particularly. I can very much answer the questions which have been asked, but I am afraid, Madam President, that I do not have time and I can do so in my second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too. The circle of parliamentary representatives is now beginning. Mr Deedias has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u122	Madam President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that everyone here, regardless of party, of perceptions, of opinions, has concluded that today and yesterday it was not a good day for Greek justice and, I fear to say, not under the responsibility of Greek justice and its officials, either in the narrow sense of the judicial officers or in the broad sense of the judiciary. Minister, you started your speech with a position towards the New Democracy questionable colleagues to prove that you are not embarrassed. I would like to tell you that I fully suspect that you would feel not just awkward but a personal crash. You are the Minister of Justice and bring the title of the great seal guard of the Hellenic Republic. One of your fellow ministers said on the record that a large part of the judges are in the outlawing circle of the past or of the present. This is the statement by the Deputy Minister of Health. And as much as you have tried in your initial position to speak of institutional criticism, or which must have arguments, Minister, forgive me, but I think you are a long way from dealing with the consequences of such a statement by a member of the Ministerial Council. Perhaps within the cycle of the problems you face, you do not perhaps have the opportunity to get the institutional distance you are due, Mr Minister, from things and to stand not just semi-rejective and semi-reasonable but totally denounced to your colleague and suggesting to the Prime Minister that he be expelled or offered, as you are due to the judiciary, your resignation. If, Minister, the Minister of Government was raised and said that the vast majority of Greek officers are incapable and traitors of the Turks, what would the Minister of National Defence do? If someone else was raised and said that the vast majority of security officers are members of circuits and criminals, what would the Minister for the Public Order and the Minister for the Interior do? The Deputy Minister of Government, who participates in the Ministerial Council, chooses the leadership of justice by his evening and his participation in the Ministerial Council, which he denounces as a majority in the outlawing circuits of the past, so obviously the future. The Minister of Justice makes a general position and refers to his confession, as if the existence and operation of a confessed violation ring from the top of the executive power, the government itself, were a matter of personal morality toward the Divine or something else, which is resolved through the mystery of confession. We have been in a newly-surrealistic, fantastic world that any statement from any member of the government is being made in some way, in any case, if not acceptable, at least tolerated. We have the other unbelievable, which is, of course, under the state of need. Acknowledging that the Union of Judges and Prosecutors was completely indifferent to the Government's incredible and silence for hours by the Minister of Justice - because I saw no announcement from you, Minister, or from your own or Prime Minister, or from the government collectively as it was due from last night that this incredible statement was known - is addressed to the President of the Republic, overcoming any institutional impediment, because it has no place else to address. The Union of Judges and Prosecutors is now talking about institutional deflection, and it is addressed to the regulator of the country which does not have formal competence but has an essential role to play, when there is no one else to take responsibility for these incredible things that are happening. Ladies and gentlemen, these things cannot be tolerated in democracies. They can't be tolerated. It has the right of every Minister to freedom of speech. But he also has responsibility and consistency for what he says. He must immediately, now, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, either resign immediately, or be called by the Prime Minister of the country and give explanation or otherwise the head of the Ministry of Justice is not standing. And I am sorry to say this because the role of the Justice Minister is a deeply institutional role. That is why the attitude of all the Members of the Grand Representation, but I also think all of the Members of Parliament towards the Minister of Justice, has been a behaviour of parliamentary inferiority despite the incredible size of the government's point of view. If we were to have the opportunity to enter the question, but it is shattered by the last fact, which is another sized intervention and has nothing to do with all the previous ones, we could count too many responsibilities to the current Minister of Justice for his order to take into account evidence that does not comply with the conditions of the law, for the releases which led to an 18% increase in thefts, for the provision of the last law in Article 106, which defied everything that was a dispute in the last 40 years in the Hellenic Republic. All of this, however, falls short of the incredible challenge to the civilization as a whole which was made yesterday and which is dealt with by the Minister and the government as if it were simply a glaring perpetual force of an overlapping personality of a graphic minister. Mr. Paulakis will be at the Ministerial Council in a few days' time, who will choose Vice Presidents of the Ice Bay, as I imagine he will be in the Ministerial Council and in previous selections of Supreme Judiciary. Will Mr Paulakis then analyse in the Ministerial Council which of the candidates belong to the indictmental circuit or will he not analyse it? Will it analyse who others, who were on the original list, were involved in the indictmental circuit - because it is certain that he knows it - or will it hide it? Will the Government choose Vice Presidents of the Ice Bay, Minister of Justice, without knowing which of them are likely to be members of an outlawing circuit, or will it not be interested to know? You said you'd say the possibility of minority, at least. The wording of your colleague, Mr Minister, refers to the majority of the judicial officers. Ladies and gentlemen, these things cannot go through a simple parliamentary control, even though a very serious and substantiated question such as the one the Minority colleagues have analysed seriously and - I repeat - with enormous support, to their honour, institutional restraint. Because it is certain that if this were to happen to any other government, the major opposition parliamentary group would then be standing up and screaming. It would cry that the hybrid minister would come here, screaming for the Prime Minister to come here, screaming for you, Minister, to resign anyone who has an affair with this government within the framework of which such views are held. These things, ladies and gentlemen - I am sorry to say this again - are incredibly unrealistic, they are beyond the logic of the culture, beyond the logic of the average human being! We live in a country that is moving on a dry acne within the framework of an incredible economic crisis of seven years that has impoverished hundreds of thousands of our fellowmen and is coming by a minister and says that the last refuge of the poor and weak, the non-capitalist where the head of a bed, Greek justice is completely corrupted as a whole. And the Minister of Justice, I repeat - the great seal of democracy, comes here and what does he say? That everyone deserves an opinion, of course. This view is too much or in any case should be taken into account by the person who said it. This is the institutional reaction of the people who have the seal of democracy. Minister, since I am never addressing any colleague of my personal character - I avoid it and I shall avoid it - but I have every right - and not only my institutional role - to assess the political contribution of the occupant to every crucial point in the country, to democracy, to the place, to the people, to society, to the nation, to the nation, to you: There is a painting of Rembrandt, to which King Balthazar sits on a table with the Divine, who comes down and tells him: 'Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin', which means warmly, because you have used Latin, I will use Arabicly: 'Weighed, weighed and found it.' Minister, you have an opportunity not to submit to this rule and to honor both Greek justice and your resignation if Mr Paulakis does not resign until tonight!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-nine tenants of the Psychosocial Structures of the Psychiatric Hospital of Attica and of "Damos and Fidias" and of the "Request". The House welcomes them as they should. Let us follow other examples of this. Thank you for coming. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Circus has the floor from SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, how does the Civic Opposition always work when we discuss these issues - seriously in my opinion - not to concentrate on the main issue of the question, but to find other issues - because the question has specifically, Mr Treasury, questions - to deal with, such as the statements of a government minister, which you have assessed as you have made use of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u125	How do you assess them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u126	What I mean to say is that independent justice is not a shape for us. Its independence is an essential component of the concept and substance of justice. The lack of independence turns it into a culpture of true justice to the limits of parody. Discrimination of powers is a fundamental principle for the proper functioning of the Republic. But how do you surround justice, when you come to such a critical period - 'in the middle of crisis', as the Minister said - and ask what you are asking today's topical question? Undoubtedly, criticism is part of dialogue and justice with society - this is what the judges themselves accept - only if there is a clear line between serious, responsible and contentious criticism and not declining criticism and a lack of respect for the independence of the judicial service. Greek citizens know very well who are responsible for the crisis of confidence in the institutions of the rule of law. We continue to defend unequivocally the independence of justice, away from any interventionism or political influence. We are moving with a plan and determination in the direction of creating conditions that will make it unlikely that the independence of justice may be called into question and that they will shield it from all kinds of interventions and oligopoly. We put an end to the attempts to intervene and influence, from wherever they are attempted, institutional or extra-institutional factors. Our democratic city and constitution place the concept of state-law at the heart of it. We are talking about the unconditional protection of citizens, of equality and of equality. The rule of law is embodied in democracy. This is an extremely sensitive issue, however, which should in no way be the subject of micro-party controversy. The opportunistic accusations on the part of counter-population, which are based on arguments at least and distorting, can only cause damage to the effort to strengthen and shield the institutions of the state-law. Most of the answers to questions raised have been given to both the Plenary and the Special Committee on Institutions and Transparency both by the Prime Minister and Minister of Justice and by the Deputy Minister of Justice. But you only raise issues with your question for communication and micro-party reasons. They have responded clearly, explicitly and unequivocally. Because, at least, on issues of morality, interventions, impartiality, we are the last in this Chamber to move us to the finger. But it's not about ignorance on your part. Your goal is to give another performance, supposedly indignation, to create noise. However, as it has been proven many times, these performances and badly directed performances also have a thousands of scripts to "squee" the Greek people. You want to hit the government and in areas that you cannot uphold. Some of the colleagues in the Officerial Representation spoke about the situation and the speed in the administration of justice. You obviously have in mind an international report which has been published recently, and it notes that our country has the second largest year of waiting for trials at international level, with the improvements that the Minister has pointed out. But when was this chaos? Who's been ruling this place for forty years? Is that why the SYRIZA government is responsible? The complaint, however, against the Deputy Minister of Justice and the matching with the report by Mrs. Prosecutors, without evidence, reveals a misguided argument on your part and is a continuation of an uncovered attempt by a system that feels losing the land under his feet for allegedly revelations and scandals. Did Mr. Papadoulou or the Attorney's Attorney ask for the infamous meeting? You have unequivocally adopted the report by Ms. Prosecutors against Mr. Papadigeopoulos that she allegedly put pressure on her and threatened her in order to hand over the file against Andreas Vageopoulos. Who took the initiative of addressing and asking for a date from Mr. Papagelopoulos? Simple logic says that the one who wishes to manipulate someone will seek to meet him and talk to him rather than the other. So are these the terrible events on which you are accusing us, to justify another attempt to distort the real facts, or is the expression - as the Minister said - in an otherwise irrelevant debate on the main issue that you put, the Minister's legal opinion? Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time to stop twisting reality because your actions are contradictory. On the one hand you are asking a long way about the crisis in justice and you are demanding a restoration of trust between citizens and, on the other, you are creating false situations against the government for alleged intervention. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, if I may, I ask for a little more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u127	How long would you like?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u128	One and a half minutes, Madam President. All you're concerned about is that you don't have the authority anymore. You have not yet realized that the people have allowed you to stand aside. You want to go back to power, but you see that doesn't come out because this government is getting more and more stable. We will, however, make use of every legal instrument available - as we have done up to now - so that no one can be exposed and disguised so that justice can actually be given to this place. We are serving another policy. Our desire is for everything to come to light, to knowledge and to the judgment of the citizens. That is what democracy demands, that is what the democratic conscience of the citizens is demanding. We do not treat - and we assure you of that, the state - the structures of this country as a spoil of power. Our democratic conviction is the complete abstention of any intervention or suggestion to independent justice officials. However, before you appear to be defenders of law and morality, you should try to answer the thirteenth cases of raw interventions, deletions, suspensions and exemptions put by the Prime Minister in the pre-dated debate in the House on 22-3-2016, in which so far you still owe answers, hoping that they will be forgotten as well as so many others have been forgotten. Understand that, we in no way have any ownership perception of the state and its structures. We are turning a page, moving forward, guaranteeing the independence of justice, the immunization of the institutions of the state, respect for the citizens and the laws of the country. Simple as that. We're not revolutionizing. We are rebuilding a state that will trust the Greek citizen. And our vision of better justice remains stable over time, for a justice that will be given in time, for a justice that is institutionally and effectively independent, for a justice in which prosecutors in peace and security, undignified, with dignity, will be in the service of its society and its citizens. Most of all, however, - and I am closing down with this - a justice to which all citizens will have access, because you have made access to it forbidden. That is why we are moving forward with bills that will come to Parliament the next few months, to the expansion of the rightful persons and to the subject of more cases to the institutional legal aid, but also to a new system of judicial expenditure. Because Mrs Papacosta said, what we are doing for the great cost of justice. If that's possible! We are therefore moving on to a new system of judicial expenditure that is friendly to the weak, starting from the immediate abolition of the judiciary in actions for recognition. That is the essence of the left-wing government, that is to say, opening the doors of justice to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u129	You finally spoke three more minutes. Mr Cassidyris, Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u130	While SYRIZA has sold out the country from end to end, while Greece's national wealth has been divested, while the country fills illegal immigrants, a problem for the so-called opposition, the New Democracy, and for the interconnected media is Paulakis. This is a plan to cover up government crimes because Latsis has bought for free the "Greek". Colonial contracts, criminal against the national economy, have been signed. Kammenos fills the country with hot-spots, where he houses with direct assignments of thousands of illegal immigrants and presents us as a problem a graphic incident, that the day before yesterday some citizens laughed at Polakis, that some citizens kicked at Paul, that today he made some statements to cover up the crime committed against Greece by the SYRIZA - ANEL government with the full tolerance and vote of the New Democracy. If you want to talk about statements, then I will refer to specific statements and documentaries on this topical question. They are statements made last Sunday in the newspaper "Real News" by Vice President of the Hellenic Parliament, Nikita Kaklamani of New Democracy. I will read these statements and would like the absolute attention of the Minister of Justice and his position thereafter. So it says the Vice-President of the Parliament, Neo-Democrat, Nikitas Kaklamanis, as far as the infamous persecution, construction and trial against the Golden Dawn are concerned. He says: "It was our strategy that was wrong. Tragically wrong to refer everyone to trial." Did you hear that, Greek citizens? The reference of the entire Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group to this trial that the channels say was not a decision of justice, it was a decision of the New Democracy and, in fact, a wrong strategy because it did not ultimately bring no votes. This is what Parliament's Vice-President Nikitas Kaklamanis has said and nobody has resigned until now, no committee of institutions and transparency has dealt with the issue, no Minister for Justice has taken a stand. That is, of course, what Golden Dawn has been saying for two years. This was the only way to limit the rapid rise of the nationalist movement. We've brought even more heavy documentary into the light of publicity. We have commanded your former Prime Minister Samara himself to confiscate MPs. These are documentaries, which the Greek people must listen to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Cassidy, that's not what they hear, it's nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u132	I should like to explain what that is, Madam President, because some people do not know why these channels have buried it. This is Samara's command to the head of the Attorney's Attorneys Doyako, a man of the New Democracy, to confiscate the three. These three will go are the three Members of the Golden Dawn who were convicted three days before questioning, made and signed. That's the sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u133	We can't do this kind of work here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u134	That's our job. Our job here is to tell the truth, to reveal scandals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u135	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u136	Finally, because you are President in the Committee on Institutions, these issues must be discussed in the Committee on Institutions. It's not just this documentary, it's Baltaku video. Because we are talking about statements, about Polakis and about various graphics, we have the document on interventions, on malicious abuse of power, where the Secretary-General of the previous government himself says so. In fact, because those who are present are here on this video, I want to read some dialogues from the statements made by the former Secretary-General of the Government about specific people who will speak in a short while to give us answers. So I ask Baltako, when I first came out, what happened to Samaras, meaning when the interrogator left me free, and Baltaco answered: “Sok and awe! It's too bad. He took the other two, Athanasios and Teddy...!'. That's what Baltacus says about the present.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Cassidy, please! These phrases can't be heard in this House! I would ask that these phrases be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u138	These are documentaries which exist in litigation and we need to present them to the House and the responsible ones will come here and answer them. What did Samaras tell them on that phone call? "You fooled me," he says, "you humiliated me. What are these?’ What did he say to them? Athanasios, Dendias, are here. What did Athanasios himself say to them, and then Athanasios himself, that he took the Chief of the Court of First Instance at the time of questioning the Chief of the Golden Dawn? Has the current Minister of Justice, for example, ever received an interrogation phone to find out how the situation is going? Is that foreseeable? Would a Minister of Justice take the interrogation phones to see how the situation goes? Like "MEGA CHANNEL" the interrogator? So these are very important elements here, which the current government of SYRIZA is of course 'depriving' them, because the Golden Dawn cannot be justified. Because, as Mr Kaklamanis says here in his statement, and he says it very well, when they are judicially justified, we will all have them across from us. And something else, to close with, from the specific interview of the Vice-President of the House and notice it is not one of the Golden Dawns' words. You have - he says - and you're friends with lawyers. They will tell you that nothing will happen to them, that the whole Golden Dawn Group is considered to be acquitted. And the Vice-President of Parliament continues 'if there is a proper trial'. Because in Greece, of course, there are irrational circuits and trials are set up. So I say it in every direction. No one dares to intervene in this infamous trial of the Golden Dawn, which we first demand at last to speed up and have a fair trial and a fair decision immediately. And it has no place for the President of the Parliament to meet involved with trial agents or witnesses and take a stand on a case that concerns only justice. That's all I had to say. The evidence we have submitted, of course, will come a day that will be assessed by a truly independent justice and by those who have criminalised - not against us, I do not say it for me, I do not say it for the other Members, who have tried to destroy our lives, we do not care about the fact that crimes have been committed against the Greek Constitution and popular sovereignty - will be punished exemplarily.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u139	Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou also has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, with the rule of SYRIZA - ANEL, we are never affected in this country. And it would be fun if we had a normal period and not a crisis like today. It would be graphic what we heard yesterday, but today it is tragic. Why what happened today? Today we would come here to talk about the facts of the government, and we would also come here to talk about the previous period, about how New Democracy dealt with justice and put forward our own proposals. Why are we talking? We are talking about what the Association of Judges of the Public Prosecutors calls "an institutional diversion" and I would like to say to you that we are discussing a degressive intervention by a Minister of Government, a Deputy Minister, in the way in which justice operates. Minister, there is one problem, and I would ask you and me to forget our other qualities. It's a political matter. And it is political for these two reasons: Is it Mr Polakis' decadent intervention, who said what? He attacked the judges by saying that much of the Greek judges have commitments and to say it more simply, he said, they belong to the outlawing circuit of the past and of the present. This, Minister, is a political matter for you and is a personal matter for the following reason. Today, in a communication which I issued, I asked on behalf of the Democratic Alliance for the resignation of Mr Polakis, the resignation of Mr Polakis from the Prime Minister. For what? Because it is unprecedented to have such an intervention in justice. It is unprecedented that judges are being convicted, that hurricane is unprecedented in the judiciary, in the very large part of the judges. It is also unprecedented for judges to be threatened. Because it's an indirect threat. And so far there has been no answer from the government. So the problem has not been said by Paulakis, the problem, Minister, you have it. They can't both stay in the government. And the one who you were saying, as I saw in a statement from you, on 14-12-2015, in which you called on prosecutors and judges to reject any attempts of political power to intervene in the work of justice. So if you say these things, then how do you protect these judges? Because I have to tell you, Minister, that your answer beforehand was that you of course respect the majority of the judges. It's a mistake, Minister. The justice system...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u141	The crushing one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u142	The vast majority, therefore, of the judges, also referring to those who are currently being investigated by justice. Your role, Minister, is to guarantee the entire judiciary and not the vast majority. So what Mr Paulakis does, who uses this way of leading suspicion against judges, is to achieve what and when? When his immunity has been lifted, when judicial investigations come in the next period, and he also tries to protect and expose you, because that is what has been done. Because if you do not answer clearly that you condemn this statement, you are exposed, because the Prime Minister has not at present done anything. Both of them in the same government: the one who smuggles against the judges, and yesterday he said that there is a very large part of the Greek judges involved in the system of lawfulness of the present. So you're gonna have to tell us what it is. Mr. Paulakis himself so far has not left his post. Of course, here we do not just have an expression, a placement of a political factor, here above all we have a raw intervention in justice, a confiscation of judges, an indirect threat, and above all, we have a leading suspicion in the people, that 'you know, there is something going on here'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, please be indulgent. On the other hand, Minister, I think that today, when you hear that the judges are appealing to the President of the Republic because they do not recognise anywhere else any cover or coverability, and that leaves you exposed. You leave them unprotected, and this is a matter which touches the functioning of the civil society and the functioning of democratic institutions. That is why I am waiting in your position for a clear statement rather than what I read in some, if you like, press networks that you have emptyd Mr Polakis. You haven't emptyed him at all. There was a nominal reference, and that was, if you like, in the context of the settling of contradictions. We're not asking for that. Minister, because you have been placed and told us quite different things from what is currently the issue at issue, I think that the attitude that has to do with protecting the institutions of justice is one and only one: Or you can confirm that there are no outlawing circuits today that touch the vast majority of the judges or you give up. It can't be both. Not even Mr. Paulakis to the government and Mr. Paradise to the government. And well, Mr. Paulakis. Mr. Paulakis has been mentioned to the journalists, saying he will put three meters below the earth. Mr. Paulakis has said that he can turn vamps and boats, because he was mayor, that he can build port facilities because he is sluggish and also has an opinion on how justice should function, saying that today we have jury judges who are in the Chair. This should not be disproved, rejected, Minister. And what we're asking you to do is something else. When we say that the Prime Minister should send Mr Polakis away, your personal and political involvement has an element: that in order to protect the justice, which is awarded in the name of the Greek people, you must yourself reassure and assure the Greek people that such things do not exist in justice and where there are, and where there are, you will be across the street. That means convicting you against Mr. Polakis. Anything else is pale, anything else is evasive. That is why I am telling you that when we demand that the Prime Minister dismiss Mr Polakis and protect and restore the authority of justice, there should be no cover for such behaviour. These behaviours are degraded and it means that - rather - direct acceptance of interventions in the work of justice and in the dispersion of justice and its award. Therefore, Minister, I think you are due to answer, an answer which should be by your position and not by omission, an answer which today has to claim your position at the Ministry. Because this position at the Ministry, Mr Minister, has been called into question by Mr Paulakis. This is what we ask you to do, to claim your position at the Ministry, to protect Greek justice, to protect Greek judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u143	The Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Lykoudi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, this is an interesting point, which has, I think, rather - the topical question of the New Democracy, which we had before us for a serious debate, in depth, on the problems of the functioning of justice in our country and on the issues it is facing, I think it has come out of today's debate and, in my opinion, quite rightly. Because the incredible statement by Mr Polakis yesterday changes the nature of today's debate. And that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Tsirkas, does not wonder why he is changing. Because it is a statement that outweighs all the other issues that we would discuss and be interested in. For example, I tried to draw up a text, to make an intervention and to speak about the time when justice was given to our country, about the absence of a court for a six-month period in the country and about how the year was to be reduced and about what might be a better way to show the leadership of the Supreme Courts. How interesting these serious, of course, issues are at this time when Mr Polakis' statement is being fleeing? You will tell me, Minister, what I regret to hear, as I was coming to the Chamber, from a colleague from the government who I found sympathetic to him otherwise. He said: “Come now, Paulakis now. What should we do?’ It's not like that. Something to do. It is not that someone has said so, who, in any case, and so on, I do not want to open up such a debate. I do not think it is stylish to open such a debate, which concerns people. Something has to be done. You have to do something. Because this is a very serious matter, and in some way it puts us all in a position of responsibility. I started this intervention today, saying that there are policies in the field of justice, which unfortunately are in a straight line with the paths of our political system, which have also in the past created problematic relations between justice and political power, that efforts to control independent judicial power are not new, that the entire judiciary officials have always been annoyed in a problematic political system. However, I confirmed through my own statement that there are 'orthodox' judges in their overwhelming majority. There's always bad times. That's not the point. Finally, I would say that the efforts of the administration policy to find representations and institutions within the judiciary are not working. How am I going to defend all these issues now, when there is this statement from the Minister for the majority of judges, that they are in wrongful circles? There is, therefore, one issue, Minister. In the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, we have heard - and I shall also deal with the same word that is the mildest, which I can use - unsubstantiated statements by the Deputy Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos, in relation to proclamations that are'smell', in relation to circuits that exist, but which I do not say, but which I will say if I are provoked, in relation to 'Don't push me too much, because I will do a press conference and say a lot'. But all this, Mr Minister, was fun in the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency and because of the greatness, I would say, of counter-population, but also because of your own prudent and seriousness, I would say, and careful presence. But now we're out of them completely. There's a statement that's lightning. Something has to be done, and you have to do something. I repeat, Minister, that what you must do is not what you said in your position from the Step and not in the first statement. You said that: "You are contradictory colleagues in the Opposition because while criticising the functioning of justice, you do not allow Mr. Paulakis to criticise the operation, as he did yesterday." Excuse me, Minister, but there are Minutes and you'll see. You may have slipped out of your mouth, but that's what you said. This is not about function, it is about lightning in how it works and there is Greek justice. Minister, I believe that in some way we must ensure calm, which has been particularly put in the field of justice since last night. It's mostly your thing. This is a matter for all of us and the government, but above all for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Now, from the Independent Greeks, Mr. Kokalis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's topical question of the New Democracy comes at a very critical time. It is a timely question that the Attorney-General has sued the Deputy Minister of Justice for intervention in her work. Controlled businessman has awarded the President of the Ice Bay by rendering the heaviest charges, which she has renounced as false. There is talk of timely questions of interference in the work of justice. We really need to talk of interference in the work of justice, when with Law 4024/2011 wage overruns in the School Buildings Agency and persecutions were terminated, when with Law 4139/2013 it was established that it did not recommend bribery the expression of gratitude - fortunately a little later - when with Law 4046/2012 the members of the bank boards for the PSI were relieved of all responsibility, when Article 263 A on bribery was replaced for a few days and favoured by specific individuals, when the law 4146/2013 provided that the bank officials for the loans they gave were exempted from the offence. These are the maritime loans granted to the New Democracy and PASOK with a guarantee of the election rates they would receive. This legislative intervention was inappropriate, with the aim of exempting bank officials from their responsibilities. There must be a lot of hypocrisy and a lot of courage to talk about interference in the work of justice by this government. I now come to the subject, which is also the topical question with Mrs Tsatani. Since when does the victim - supposedly - meet the Justice Minister on her own initiative? The one who wants to intervene in justice will take the initiative. Mrs Tsatani herself admitted that on her own initiative she sought the meeting with the Minister. Is this an intervention in justice? With what procedural pretext did the case of this businessman go to the hands of Mrs Tsatani? These are questions which the Greek people owe and must learn. You know that we Independent Greeks separate a large gap from the Golden Dawn, but I will also invoke what the Vice-President of the Parliament and a member of the New Democracy said. What did he say? "It was our strategy that was wrong. It was wrong to refer everyone to trial." Since when is it a matter of legislative power to draw up a strategy for the handling of criminal cases? Since when? Explain from when a government has drawn up a strategy for handling criminal cases. If this is not an intervention, what else can it be? The New Democracy, as well as the other opposition, cannot speak of intervention in the institutions of justice. The damping deadline of the two outdated parliamentary periods worked as a laundry for the possible responsibilities of the former Ministers. During the IE's parliamentary term, from the 2012 elections to the January 2015 elections, the people have been sent - and this is what the world must know - a hundred thirty procedural documents. In the VI parliamentary term, from January to June 2015, thirty-nine procedural documents were forwarded. The execution of the alleged possible offences was in 2001, 2002, in 2003. So, ten years and more do it take for the documents to come to the House of former Ministers? Ten years? When our fellow citizens are at the suffering of the audience and of the courts with public debts and with rapid procedures, are they forced to go to prison or are they forced to give their sentences, ten years, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, do we need to get back to the proceedings of former ministers in the House and to consider their criminal responsibility? Of course not. He wants courage, but also hypocrisy, to talk about interference in the work of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, justice is a pillar of democracy. The majority of Greek judges have only one commitment to serve the Constitution and the country, and they do. The large part of the Greek judges, the first judges, the peace judges, the packets have no commitment, and we Independent Greeks support them and support them and have proved it. We support the Greek judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u147	And you're supporting Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u148	The majority of Greek judges, not that they did not exist in the past, and there are no poor judges, "put back" at the difficult moment for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Red. Now with Mr Karras, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, we are closing the circle of parliamentary representatives. Let's go this way quietly and soon to get this over with. Please, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u150	You will allow me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u151	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. Madam President, I have to say this: I started at home this morning with great interest to come to attend and participate in this debate on justice, which I have been ministering for many years. So I was very interested to hear the views of both sides. I was interested in contributing, if I could, with some thoughts and any experience I have. My interest, however, in the way, during the follow-up to the debate, began to turn into anger. Why am I saying that? Listening to Mr Polakis' statements, in his words - if you like - a way that seems to have occurred, I began to think: Justice is a support for democracy. Does Mr. Paulakis have any evidence, or does he throw a ward to create impressions? Does his statement have any evidence of threat? Because we have to think about it in this direction too, when we say that there is a majority of Greek judges who belong to circuits or if justice needs new blood. Does he have any evidence of a threat? Is there any other evidence he knows, and we don't know? In this sense, the debate on the question of the New Democracy has now changed. I would also like to say this and it was justified and the indignation of almost all the wings in the Chamber for a particular reason, Madam President: justice is now downgraded. Justice is in crisis. We all know that justice is not due to the Greek people. I will not stand by to share responsibility, to say who is to blame more or less, but justice is not attributed. And it is not attributed for many reasons, either from the past, defects arise, either at present, but unfavourable conditions make justice difficult. We all know the abstention of lawyers, which - in my opinion - is justified. However, this and the impossibility of the government or the indifference to deal with it, to resolve the resulting issues regarding the exercise of the law, eventually puts the burden on the Greek judges. We cannot, therefore, today that we have taken these conditions to their detriment, attack and say that they are corrupt, belong to circuits, are disguised. I personally have many things to say, Madam President, in relation to justice, but today I am unable to expand, because I consider the upset that comes to these people and the breakdown to the Greek people. We all said - and Mr Paradoxopoulos - that we all state that we have full and complete confidence in Greek justice. Is there anything else I can tell you? I am afraid the judges themselves will start to shake. When Mr Paulakis, on his official lips - a minister, Madam President - is not a substitute, he is a member of the government, even if he bears the title of Deputy Minister - they are heard of this, I have my intimate fear within me, Mr Paradise - and I am showing him at the moment - that the judges themselves who are listening to these statements will start looking for who is good, who is bad, who is potentially corrupt. You can understand, Madam President, that neither fairness nor objective can function, because the most serious courts are three-member, multi-member, and therefore one will be looking after each other in a short time if we continue this process. It has opened another story against justice. You are chairing the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, and that is where we hear all the views. I, of course, also take the view that I will not remove the New Democracy's responsibilities for the past of justice. And I would like to congratulate her today, but I do not have the opportunity for time because of the circumstances that have arisen with the newest statements. I therefore believe that this is no longer the case, and I expect, Madam President, to listen to the Prime Minister on this matter, to listen to the position of the Prime Minister, whether or not the Prime Minister will take a position. And why am I saying that? You see now that the judges themselves are not addressing the Prime Minister in their announcement, they are addressing the so-called "regulator of the constitution" in the old sense. They are addressed to the President of the Republic, which means that they feel the dimensions that take the matter and the outcry that may exist. We have something that's dangerous. Many Greeks know - all of us lawyers - that law is often subjective. We feel that many times a judicial decision - which may be at our expense - is a product of not impartiality, but of bias. Each party has the impression that he is wrong. Every convicted man tells us he's the victim of a judicial error. So no one should stand in such statements that decisions will be called into question tomorrow. Not only will judges be called into question, legal judgments will be called into question and a much more difficult and more unfavourable malfunction will arise now than the one that has arisen from matters. Whether there are political interventions or there are no interventions, the House must unanimously condemn these positions, because otherwise, Madam President, we will have problems in the future. Yesterday, many of us attended the judiciary meeting held in the Chamber of the Bar Association, expressing the agony of judges not only on the questions of wages, which indeed exist. It has changed so much the economic level of their lives, which I feel often that it also removes the possibility of objective judicial work. You can understand that, when the Government itself calls into question the impartiality, standing and honesty of the judicial officers itself, it cannot go on like this. I believe that we must take decisions on the basis of the timely question that is being asked - I do not doubt the responsibilities of the New Democracy, I know what has happened in the exercise of its power, as in PASOK, but today is the most critical day - Parliament, we all have to put ourselves down and condemn. I and my party, the Centroon Association, condemn the Polakis statements and call on the government to lift the situation, to resolve this issue. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, too. We are now entering the cycle of the second readings of the honourable Member. Let's get to know who the questions are. According to my list, Mr. Voridis, who has five minutes, has three minutes, Mr. Tasoulas, who has three minutes, who also has three minutes. Mr. Athanasios, because I saw you were keeping notes, to tell you that the previous president has noted that you have covered your second. You've spoken for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Javaras and Mr. Tragakis have resigned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Javarras too had written him. He's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u156	I need two minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u157	Promise?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u158	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u159	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u160	I can promise you, too, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u161	Good. We're starting with Mr. Voridis. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, we have been waiting for you to listen to what has arisen. Look, it can't be degraded. Why can't he be degraded? Because a statement by the Union of Judges and Prosecutors has already been issued on this matter, which describes it as a "institutional diversion". Therefore, we have a leading collective body that expresses its deep concern. And now it cannot be further degraded, because the prosecutor of the Ice Bay has, from what I read, ordered a preliminary examination of the declarations in question - perhaps even listening to us - because questions are reasonably raised after these statements. One member of the government says that the vast majority of judges are taking part in misconduct. He can't, he'll know something. Tell us. To share it with us. To share it with the Minister to do his job. But here, Minister, an issue arises for you, because you say 'I trust the judges', but on the other hand you are talking about the free speech and the right of criticism. Of course, the outrage of speech means that when you have something to say, you say it very well, but, of course, what you say must be very serious and it must also be documented, because otherwise it is not a matter of temptation. Everyone cannot say what they want to say in this brutal way of dealing with justice and you must say that this is covered by the right of speech. The right has not been removed. He said it. Does not the words have any effect when they are cast by government ministers? And here, of course, is the question of the resignation of Mr Polakis. But because I don't think it's so sensitive, this is where your question arises. Do you tolerate this declaration on justice? Do you tolerate co-existence with a colleague of yours in the government who says these things? And do you cover it by talking about boldness? If that is your position - because I understand that this is your position - then now the issue of resignation and ascension is turning back to you. You're the ones who have to resign. And I will now tell you something else, which arises from your position, because for me there are no more random things. Excuse me, it's not random. It is clear that from one point onwards depreciating justice and targeting judicial officers serves a comprehensive political plan. Mr. Tsipras, to be able to stand on his theorem, wants blood on the arena. Blood is that the intercepters must be found and convicted. So justice needs to be pressed by prefabricated decisions. Hence the targeting and indictment of judges, therefore, the judges must be afraid that if they do not make the decision that is pleasing to Mr Tsipras's political plan, they will be described as being in wrongdoing, that they are involved in legal coups, that they will be prosecuted, that disciplinary action will be taken against them. That's the political plan. And here, if you'll excuse me, we very much want to exclude you, but you're part of the political plan. We would like to say 'no, you are not' but, in the end, you seem to be part of this political plan. Why? Because even your position on this Polakis declaration is not clear. And further, you can't actually say: "Yes, you know, there have always been some problems in the field of justice." What problems were there in the field of justice? Have half the senior judges sued the other half for handling cases? Is that a normal situation in the field of justice? We're saying, what do we do? Let's get it down, let's go softly so there won't be any matter. But what is it that triggered it? Will there be any thought on your part, or will we stay with the observation of the phenomenon? What's triggering the judgment in justice? Doesn't it trigger the entire framework you're referring to? Bad lies, Paulis says that. But if, after all, what's there is is outrageous circuits, which are inside the plan, to cover up the corrupt media, corrupt parties, corrupt banks, then we don't want corrupt judiciary to cover up this whole thing? Well, that's the frame. So it's no accident. It's not a disguised statement. It is not something that we have heard in parentheses: a fool has risen up and said nonsense. Here, because your political plan is not served, because you do not have legal decisions the way you want them to, there is pressure and interference with the judges and their targeting. But that touches you personally. In this respect, your position - I beg your pardon - must be clear and clear to all of this, especially to the Polakis declarations. In the end, however, I stress that the great picture and problem of serving the Tsipra political project, through the desolation of justice, remains open. The only pillar of resistance to this project today is New Democracy, is Civic Resistance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Tasoula has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u164	Look, they realized from the Minister’s speech that he is actually a milder Paulakis. It is a Paulis with a different wording, which, in fact, serves the same project and, more effectively, because no one suspects it. So I will not address the Minister and SYRIZA. I will not say - I dare say - even those who are still curious today - who are dramatically fewer - to believe SYRIZA. I will commit, Minister of Justice and a professor of criminal law, today the offence of the establishment of religions, the offence, namely, the question of the left-wing religion, which was imposed as a dominating religion in Greece of Transnationalism and which the Left in Greece, as a dominant ideology after Transit, imposed on everyone not to dare to call it a bad way. We have arrived at the congress point to think that when SYRIZA is conscientiously thinking, or when it damages the economy, or when it imposes pension and tax reductions, this cannot be left, because the left is something good. Well, the Left is nothing good. Forgive me for devouring religions and brutal blasphemy - the previous article in chapter 7 of the Criminal Code - but I will say that this is exactly the Left. It is a status party, which was on the margin thanks to the Greek people's vote. Now, thanks to the Greek people’s vote it is in the government and it tries its passage from the government to take over the country’s government. Occupational government is a state-of-the-art mentality and anti-democratic behaviour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u165	And you didn't have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u166	We had it, Mr. Mada. We went through power, because the Greek people, who do not eat spoon, in the opinion of Mr Tsipras, voted for us. The old parties, Mr. Mada, after 1974 were voted for by the Greek people, who did not eat spoon. Then he didn't eat spoon, and now he doesn't eat gossip. It is not possible for the people themselves, when voting for us, to make a mistake and when voting for you, to act properly. She always acted right. It is just now acting properly under the burden of economic hardship and reacting, it does not act. You do, then, want to turn a passage from power as far as you are entitled to, in the occupation of power, and justice is for you a arm of supremacy. That is what we are pointing out. It shall be marked with different tons. Mr Paulakis points out in an agarbo, which has something to do with both his level and his education. Mr. Paraskevi mentions it in an awkward way, which also fits in a occult and tries to hide all this and gives us various ambiguities of contradictions in our question. We denounce those who want to hear and those who want to believe that this is a state-of-the-art conception and justice, that the New Democracy, as a Professional Opposition, does not obviously feel that it speaks to you from some perfection or from some perfection, with its mistakes, with its omissions, but not with its established attitude, is here with the help of the Greek people, with the majority of the Greek people who understand what we are saying, defend democracy and the neutrality of justice and the integrity of the Greek judges against this effort made by SYRIZA in all forms. In the range from Polakis to Paradise the calidoscope contains many forms. So this SYRIZA's attempt to subjugate even justice, to subjugate democracy and turn a fugitive passage through power, will not pass. The Greek people see it, the majority of the Greek people see it and those who still believe in you shrink dramatically.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u167	I have two applications for permission. New Democracy MP Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from 1 July to 7 July 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u168	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Similarly, MP Kilkis of the New Republic, George Georgios Georgios Georgios, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from 1 July to 7 July 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u169	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Athanasios has the floor for two minutes, because I see we're starting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u170	Three minutes, Madam President. The previous speakers have gone far beyond their time. The world isn't lost!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u171	That doesn't mean we're going to make this status.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u172	Minister, we have seen a clear discrepancy between you and Mr Papagelopoulos, which we have also noted and noted in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Of course, we are not talking about legislative intervention, Mr Kokkalis and Mr Tsirkas. These were commented, they were judged in the House. They will be judged by science and case law. We are talking about the interventions that are being made in pending cases for their effective outcome. I am referring, Minister - I will not mention a name, it is well known to you - to a self-appointed journalist outside Mr Papagelopoulos's office, who listens to and publishes it in his newspaper to order an economic prosecutor on how to handle and charge a case. As far as - I shall reply to that - the provisions which the Prime Minister referred to in the debate on justice were also mentioned, but which Mr Mitsotakis also answered, the promotions are indeed done not with antiquity. You said, however, that they are also done with political confidence in the state to those who will serve justice. I think I should remind my fellow Members who are not legal, that justice is an absolute concept, ladies and gentlemen, which is not determined by the confidence that the political power in question can have, with the diversity of philosophy, which can parade. But as an absolute concept, the judge himself must understand its function within the rule of law. But, in any case, forty-seven Judges received were useless? How is it possible a year ago to become a Vice-President from the Ministerial Council - which, in your view, has the alleged political confidence - and in a year not to have it? If tomorrow a man you missed a year ago makes him Vice President of the Ice Bay, what are you going to say? Did you see the files, the inspectors' reports for years? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Paulakis, Minister, did not criticise the judicial work of the judges, who would be tolerable and welcome, although not legal, but spoke about circuits of the past and of the present, that is to say on your day. It also called for the replacement of all judges. With all due respect and appreciation I have for you, I think you have made a point here, because you have identified the criticism of the functioning of justice with the Polakis statements. You have also identified a public specific reference, that of Mr Vageopoulos - I do not adopt it, the courts will judge it - by references made to the Ministry by individuals complaining about judicial decisions. What does one have to do with the other? With regard to the legislation mentioned by Mr Kokkalis and Mr Tsirkas, Mr Mitsotakis answered the Prime Minister. I also gave an answer with a press release and interviews. However, I would like to remind you of something, Mr Tsirka and Mr Kokalis, as regards the legislation 4258/2014 that we have adopted. Are you aware, ladies and gentlemen, that with these two legislations according to the GRECO International Report, our country in the international corruption classification table has improved by twenty-five full positions? What kind of legislation have we done to criticise them? With regard to bribery, in 235 of the Criminal Code, if it was a misdemeanor, the former regime was to be imprisoned for at least one year. We have put in prison at least one year and a payment of EUR 5 000 to EUR 50,000, which is a stricter penalty. If, in fact, it is a felony and the benefit exceeds EUR 120,000, we, if it is done professionally or in a habit or unfair benefit, was of particular value, so we have again introduced a stricter penalty. Of course, they were retained by Mr Paradise, but, for the impressions of colleagues, I have to give the answer. I shall conclude, Madam President, because this is a little personal. As far as bribery in 236 of the Criminal Code is concerned, it has been punished evenly, whether for the sake of legal acts, ladies and gentlemen, or for the sake of illegal acts. With the new regulation of Law 4258/2014 we are more severely punishing bribery for legal acts than before. In other words, he was punished with one year's imprisonment. We have introduced one year imprisonment and a penalty of 5 000 euros to 50,000 euros. For the sake of illegal acts, we regard it as always a felony, indiscriminately in any case. In addition, with Law 4254/2014, for the first time we have abused - that is, from misdemeanours we have committed them - the active and passive bribery of political officials and judges. We are talking about Articles 159 and 150 A of the Criminal Code, as they apply. Until we voted on these laws and also established the National Coordinator against Corruption, which you abolished, Mr Minister - not you, not you, another Minister, but on your day - our country was under surveillance. After that, he has been out of custody for these days and has had all these improvements in the GRECO international table. The last thing I would like to say, because there has been a lot of talk about 263 I, is about SYRIZA's lawyers, who have discussed it, understood it and understood what has happened. An employee of a legal person of private law - that is, for example, a company in the neighborhood that makes our shirts - cannot be regarded as a civil servant. That is what the Ice Bay Plenary has said. That is what Parliament's Central Legislative Committee has said. That is what the Committee on Criminal Code has said - Mr. Paradoxopoulos knows - which decriminates the case of D of 263 A. If you think a civil servant is a civil servant of a legal person of private law, of a company, what to say! That's your business. I could say too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Comrade, you cheated on me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u174	I'm done. But you must know that change, ladies and gentlemen, was not Article 263. No one has benefited. For those who say they have benefited, it goes in case (c) of Article 263. You should study legal texts. For legal persons established by public law - and the shipyards have been established by the public - the malicious nature remains and there is no difference. On the contrary, with the provisions of offshore, which, in one day, you changed them, all those who wanted to favour them were favoured, and of course it is a non-applicable one, because you were talking about a leniency privilege. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u175	Let's see that. Well, Mr. Georgades has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, we cannot leave today unless we resolve a matter. We have to resolve this. It is not at your discretion to take a clear and absolute position on the question of yesterday's declaration, it is your duty, it is your responsibility, which you cannot renounce. You're the Minister of Justice. Yesterday we had a statement that it caused. It has provoked the strong protest of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, who are talking about institutional decay. How are we gonna get through this? Can we talk about anything else about justice if we don't solve this? So will it be important for us to say how we can find ways to speed up the administration of justice, will it matter whether the award will take place in one year or three, when there will be a judge dependent, a judge who, in the statement by your Minister, is involved in an indictmental ring? What's of the fundamental importance? We've got to work this out. There are a lot of ways to solve this. There are some people directly and some longer. The first is that today the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Papagelopoulos, should of course launch an investigation to see who these corrupt judges are. I guess he'll do it. But the other thing, which is your obligation, is that you must in one way that you will decide who it is - but I imagine it is a one-way path for you as long as the Prime Minister does not take his responsibility, in relation to the other member of the Ministerial Council - to take responsibility for demonstrating with a sound energy that you do not adopt all these statements. The mere expression here that this is a criticism, in fact, as you mentioned it, I think it cannot take a step to continue tomorrow to confide with the judges and prosecutors, to give them and to shield them so that they can function within the framework in which the Constitution provides, if you do nothing to give them that right. The biggest, you know, issue that will come out of this deception of justice, is not so much about this debate on the statements of the Ministers or about what is happening with the big issues, with the big pending cases, is that the hurtful credibility of justice will collapse even further in the consciousness of the people. Any citizen who is going to appeal to justice will now be entitled to question any decision he does not like, since when a minister directly questions the authority of the judges on the table, it is much more legitimate that any citizen should do so. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So you have no discretion today, Minister, to do what we all think you should do on the basis of your academic course and academic competence. Other academic adequacy, other your function as Minister, and today you will be judged for it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Tragakis wants to add something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u178	I need a minute. I had taken the time of my dentology in my prototype. Minister, you didn't do me the honor of answering me. I asked you questions. You have answered other colleagues. You didn't do me the honor of answering me. My questions were clear and I will repeat them. It's about Mr. Polakis. As you all know, Mr. Paulakis was a co-pilot with the Prime Minister in the summer. There's a picture on Mr. Polakis' ship. They held the steering wheel together in the summer and went. So the question is: will the co-pilot keep Paul in the government? Is it possible, after what happened? Justice has taken place. The President of the Ice Authority, Mr Thanos, instructed the Deputy Prosecutor, Mr. Forsula, to carry out a preliminary examination of the complaints of Polakis. That is the question of justice. What's the state doing? What does the political leadership do? Political leadership I always mean the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras. Mr. Tsipras chose Mr. Polakis. Mr. Paulakis as Deputy Minister takes part in the Ministerial Council, which makes judgments about the judges. So when the judges, judged by the omission of forty-seven approved judges, were judged, Mr. Paulakis took part. So do you realise that this is a very big issue and is currently getting away from the possibilities we have in such limited time to prove what colleagues have told us, that 'finally Mr Paulakis is part of a project'? So the plan is to devaluate a share of court? Although he speaks of the majority because he said "a very large part of the judges are in the outlawing circle of the past or of the present". So he wants to deceive a section of the judges, who will deal with cases of political interest. We must also answer that aspect, Mr Minister, and that is the question you have to answer. Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u179	Thank you. It is now up to the Minister, who has secondary and tritology. Mr Denkias, too, as a Parliamentary representative, has a secondary and tritology. Do you want, Minister, to unify them and not speak again? Whatever you want. You have ten minutes in dentology and five minutes in tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u180	I won't get far, Madam President. I'll try to limit myself to ten minutes. If I don't make it, I'll get the rest. Thank you for recognizing the margin. I have heard the desperate attempt - let me start with it - by Mr Tasoula to hurt me, by saying 'poorer Polakis'. I hired her amusingly, Mr. Tasoula. But let me say this. If you want to hurt me, you can't do it, because I 'poorest Paulakis' understand it as'many', that is to say, writing with two 'lamada' and'sons'. That is why I will continue to be mild, and I will not be taken away from such formalities. I would also like to say that I understand that the debate has now moved on to the debate on the 'Political Declarations', and less to the issues raised by the question, which was a multitude, and this reorientation of the debate shows the minor importance which was ultimately attached to the major issues involved in the original question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u181	We'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u182	But I have to say this. The criticism I heard was also made in relation to the reaction to the 'Polakis Declaration', which seemed to me to distort, in principle, what I said in my initial statement. In my initial statement, confirming my personal confidence - but perhaps it was unnecessary to confirm it, because it is something I have done repeatedly - in justice I have explained that I am referring to the whole of justice. If I then had to explain that I am referring to the overwhelming majority and that of course there are exceptions, as always, because there are obviously references to the question itself, in cases of litigation or sues or disciplinary cases, and I said that these are simple exceptions. Otherwise, my statement specifically concerned the whole of justice. In addition, let me say this. I have heard that the 'Polakis Declaration' is an institutional diversion. I'm not watching the media right now. I understand as true that the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow ordered a preliminary examination of the "Polakis Declarations". Is that institutional diversion? Institutional application is called this, ladies and gentlemen. The "Poliakis" statements are intrinsically and harmoniously integrated within all our institutions and lead to an institutional reflex on the part of the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow. Where is the diversion, when it says something that mobilizes the institutions in one case of implementation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u183	But are you kidding us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u184	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Athanasios, especially you, please, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u186	I also heard I was hiding. If I was hiding, what I'm saying wouldn't cause so many vacations in my word. Obviously, I'm saying a lot, and that's why you're interrupting me all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u187	You say a lot that's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u188	You say a lot of incomprehensible things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u189	Much I'm saying wrong? I'm saying a lot anyway, Mr. Voridis. I'm saying a lot of things I can accept. I have also heard here, for your part, speak - by more Members - of a project which is now being exalted and aimed at depreciating justice and which is also linked to the Prime Minister himself. I would like to ask the following question: I have repeatedly stated my confidence in justice. With my actions, I've shown it. If the Prime Minister or the government would like to go ahead with a plan to redeem justice, why would a minister in his place who, on occasion, by works and by acts, demonstrate the value of justice and his confidence in justice? Also, in relation to what has been said about devoting religions on the way of visas on the left, because the Left is considered a religion, etc., to say, of course, that the confusion between political and religious religions does not express the liberal state. In the liberal state the political mind is political, religious, and institutional treatment of the two is very different. In any case, it is subject to freedom and independence and self-determination from the outset.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u190	Then I withdraw the "decoration of religions" and go to "bad blasphemy" in Article 198.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u191	Mr Tasoula, my personal view is that the crime of demolition, blasphemy in any case in the Criminal Code, is useful to revise and look at it again. But this is a more general debate which is not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u192	You have, however, agreed with Mr Tassoula that the Left is a religion!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u193	As you have noticed, Mr Vorides, I have not agreed at all to identify any religion with any political attitude. In relation to the specific questions raised by the New Democracy, I should like to return to something. The question of the New Democracy MPs was based on the fact that there is chaos in the area of justice. 'Decomposition' was the word used in the question. This picture of chaos, this disaster for justice, seems to sound as a self-esteeming desire. So much does it sound like chaos exist in justice, so much does it sound like it's decomposed - all the adjectives were used here - that you start and suspect "why is things really gonna be like that"? Because I think that the role of all of us here - and many of us here - is certainly not to advertise a mess. Our role is to try to inflame confidence in the functioning of the policy, in the functioning of the courts, and to preserve an opportunity to discuss sober, measured, and by measuring things and current situations without catastrophes. It is clear as far as the present Ministry of Justice is concerned that the issues of today's justice are trying to deal with them at all times on the basis of its responsibilities, namely by legislative reforms and an attempt to upgrade infrastructure. There has been a lot of talk, however, in today's debate and in Mr Papagelopoulos's policy on the Tsatanis case, etc. I would like to say this: I have used the names because they have already been mentioned here in this House, but I think that my role at least is in a case that seems to be fair to mention at all. And I would say that it would also be a good thing if the House were not particularly concerned about a case which is being investigated by justice, so that justice would not be pressed on one side or the other. And that's why I'm not going to tell you more about these cases that have been mentioned and which are currently being investigated. In relation to the Deputy Minister, Mr. Papaggiopoulou, all I have to say is that I have no criticism to do is that we work perfectly and that the way in which he has dealt with the issues of his authority by carrying out his duties if you want me theoretically or personally to sign him. It is also characteristic that the Deputy Minister was particularly criticised for the fact that he accepted a prosecutor who wanted something to tell him. He made it clear, of course, that he had a friendly conversation, but there was no criticism of a prosecutor who visited the Minister to speak on subjects of a case-file he was handling. I am not going to go into this anymore. In addition, Mr Papagelopoulos has repeatedly come to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and clarified his personal views. I have heard many references here to what has been said in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency before which I myself came and spoke. I am not a parliamentary expert, of course, and you all know that very well, Madam President, who is chairing the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency. But is it right at the moment to criticise the various positions of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency before its conclusion is made? Is it not wise to wait for this committee to end, to listen to everyone and to express itself as to whether something has been said is well founded or not? My own idea is that this should be right here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u194	They're statements in public sessions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u195	I believe that this is what needs to be assessed with the conclusion, and then we come to make a criticism, based on our role and, if we are summoned, during the debate on the conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u196	That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u197	Finally, I should like to say that the Greek legislation in general, with regard to disciplinary matters, which I have already heard a few complaints, has a lot of detail on the exercise of disciplinary powers. If for any reason there is an institutional implosion for a person, there are other persons to take care of them. So I believe that at the moment our justice is working in the best possible way. It has tools so that it can manage its own complaints, sues, any crises that occur. In relation to Mr Polakis' statement to repeat, so that there is no doubt as to whether I express myself clearly or not, and say that, beyond my personal full confidence in Greek justice, I have expressed myself for the whole and the majority of justice. I did not understand whether Mr Paulakis was expressed for the majority of the Greek judges. I think not. If it had been expressed for the majority of Greek judges, I would have told you that I disagree. I will say here that the expression of Voltaire is true, that I disagree with your view, but I will defend your ability to support your view, in so far as it would be the majority of justice. I do not believe, however, that Mr Paulakis was thus expressed and that he was referring to the many judges. Otherwise, if he specialises his opinion in a way that shows that he is referring to specific acts and specific persons, he is certainly a researcher from justice. If this is a generalised view is something that can certainly be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Teddy, you have the floor. At this stage you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Madam President. You're always totally tolerant anyway. Minister, I wonder why you took ten minutes not to tell us anything at all. And these, with all due respect, I add them to the other twenty-three minutes of your prototype, which you have also discussed with us very little. I repeat, because I understand that he will voluntarily perpetuate your understanding, not your hearing, of course, of the statement by your colleague. Your colleague, the Honourable Deputy Minister for Health, said, "A very large part of the judges are in the outlawing circle of the past or of the present". That was said. That's the statement. With this statement you, as an institutional representative of the state, head of the Ministry of Justice, are invited to fight. And “one count is measured to you, ” to use the Bible phrase. You told us here a lot of mists. Do you want me to read from the Minutes what you said in your prototype? You said 'to say it stylishly, it is a declaration without meaning, or institutional criticism, but it must have arguments. The Ministry of Justice and I personally trust Greek justice." Are you real? Is the Minister of Justice required to declare that he trusts Greek justice? Is it possible that she will not trust her and remain Minister of Justice? In order to understand what the limits of human reasoning are in this government in which you are involved. In your dentex, verbatim, you said: "Polakis statements fall in harmony with the institutional framework" since, I imagine, the President of the Ice Bay was ordered to examine it. Harmonized statements, Polakis! Excuse me, Minister. Do you have the word 'convict' in your vocabulary at the Ministerial Council and you personally, if I may? Will you condemn or will you not condemn? How far do you think you can drive them? To be informed. Here comes a Deputy Minister who tells us more or less directly that the majority of judges are a member of a circle, commonly fraudulent. The majority of the judges! And we have here the Minister of Justice who tells us things. And the word 'convict' has not left it out of his mouth. And SYRIZA quietly and government quietly. Where are we? In Sub-Saharan Africa? So let me get this straight. Whatever the New Democracy's topical question was, whatever it was possible to talk about and ignore the major issue? With what moral stature will the government be addressing Greek society tomorrow morning, having this special Deputy Minister? Civic Opposition has a specific task. There is no social association between us in the Chamber, Madam President. We are absolutely obliged by the Constitution to control the government. And control over the government has nothing to do with our party or personal benefit. It has to do with its main, maximum, protection of the culture of democracy and society. Here the government barbaric violates by the Deputy Minister the whole constitutional order in Greece, because it removes from the social system a pillar absolutely necessary for both the operation and society over time as well as the difficult time. And we have a minister here who tells us a lot of strange things. I say again for the third time, and I challenge him: Will he condemn or will he not condemn? There is no means of expressing itself in this respect. He owes himself, his ministry, his idea of justice and the Constitution to stand up and say "I condemn these statements". Don't understand. Don't interpret. Just convict. If he does not condemn it then he is completely in solidarity and we will see what we will do from our institutional role. That's a matter of ours from there. But the Greek judges must have no doubt. Or the present Minister for Justice will condemn the statements - I say this for the fourth time - or indirectly, but clearly it encourages these phenomena. As regards the statement that he perceives them "in a context of harmonious co-operatives" I imagine he means that a preliminary examination has been ordered, because otherwise I do not think he said what was written in the Minutes. I guess he'll take care of it after that. But from there, where are we from? What is the constitutional barrier to this government? Madam President, I don't need six minutes. I've got five of them. Mr Minister, I personally appreciate you and respect your presence here, which has been decency. I'm telling you, honestly. Please stand up and condemn this statement, without parties, without perfections, without references, without explanations. And if it still costs you your stay in the government, it'll be excellent for the rest of your life. If you remain silent or with these statements here, you will not stand in the country's legal world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Paradisepoulou, would you like the reason to quantify?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u201	Yes, Madam President, thank you. Mr. Dendia, I'm not used to condemning and then being tried. We are talking about a case which, at the moment we are discussing, has not been fully discussed and what I am going to do here is what is my firm belief in the issue that has been raised. My confidence is that I fully trust Greek justice. Also, in the case of Mr Polakis' statements, I believe that Mr Paulakis has the right to express himself freely. But if his statements exceed a limit and concern the majority of Greek justice, I totally disagree with his position. Now, I do not think that I need to clarify more than that. This is the third time I have made it clear here that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u202	Third time, you say something different. Every time you say something different. We're taking that off with you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Tasouula, let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u204	Has Mr. Paulakis exceeded the limit or not? What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u205	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u206	I think that those who are in this Chamber can understand what I mean by saying that the conviction of an investigation cannot be preceded. I have told you that very clearly. I have nothing more to say, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u207	There is, then, a possibility that he may have a point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u208	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u209	Here you go, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u210	Excuse me. If they understood well, what the Minister for Justice said to us in the third version is that he intends to investigate Mr Polakis' statements in substance and then decide on accuracy or non-accuracy. We begin with a good option, that is, that Greek judges are not all corrupt and not all participate in outlawing circuits, but in any case does not want and condemn what he says is all crooks before he judges the matter in his conscience and sees and sees what is going on with the investigation. In other words, it clearly leaves the possibility of telling us tomorrow morning that all Greek judges or the majority of them are fraudulent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u211	That's even worse!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u212	And so in Mr Polakis' understanding, who is perhaps distinguished by some peculiarity, we now have the institutional position of the Minister of Justice, who tells us: "I do not condemn the man who says cheating judges as a whole, but I expect to look into it and then I will tell you."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u213	Because it could be!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u214	Let me see how the Minister of Justice will go to the next general meeting of the Greek judges, Madam President, and forgive me for addressing you. Are these things? Are these things from a professor of legal science? Is there a country of the civilized world that the Minister of Justice would say that the majority of judges are involved in an indictment and would say: 'I will not condemn before I judge'? What's this? What's to judge? What about the Justice Minister? Is the Justice Minister? Or will it expect the evolution of the investigation to decide - I say again - whether or not the judges are or are not fraudulent? And so it defends the prestige of justice! And so the man who will be at the defendant's seat on Tuesday and who will be charged with the sentence will believe that in the name of the law this sentence is given to him when the Minister of Justice has allowed everyone to be convicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u215	Terrible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u216	Mr Minister, I invite you once again: do not embarrass us! Protect your justice, your institutional role, your government, the Prime Minister, the Ministry! You have only one choice of dignity - you have many others at another level - : stand up, condemn the statement and finish this story!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u217	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u218	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u219	I'm protesting about the distortion of my words. My words were crystal clear from the outset to use an anti-English loan. I have said from the outset that I fully trust the Greek justice and have explained that if Mr Polakis' statements refer to the majority of the Greek judges, I totally disagree. Where is it that I can say tomorrow that the judges are cheating?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u220	The word 'didn't you say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u221	The New Democracy Members must understand at some point that, with their ruthlessness, they are also insulting Parliament and Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u222	Are we insulting justice?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u223	What I said was that if Mr. Paulakis said something else, I disagree. I also said that I cannot condemn anything myself before I have answered my questions about exactly what Mr Paulakis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u224	What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u225	What do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u226	I do not know whether it refers to many or not and I cannot condemn in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u227	What are you waiting for? What do you need to convict her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u228	Mr Polakis' statement was very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the necessary answers have been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u230	Madam President, may I have the floor for twenty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Papatheodorou, may I give you the floor to comment on what? Would it help? Oh, no. The Minister doesn't want to. He's made his statement. The debate on the number 28/22/26-5-2016 topical question regarding the unprecedented crisis in justice is hereby opened. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like you to approve two additional permits for the absence of colleagues abroad. Parliamentary Karditsa of the New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras seeks permission from a short-day absence for a transition to Brussels from Sunday 19 July to Monday 20 July 2016, as a representative of the New Democracy and its President, for the meeting of the European People's Party. Also, New Democrat Arcadias, Mr. Konstantinos Vlasi, seeks permission from a short-day absence for a transition to Berlin-Nuremberg from Tuesday 21 July to Thursday 23 July 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u232	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-17-S1-commons.u233	With the consent of the House at no time of 14.41 the sitting for Wednesday, 22 June 2016, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
