ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 31-3-2016, the minutes of its 2nd meeting of Thursday 31 March 2016 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the President, with regard to the resolution as a whole of the draft law: ‘Adapting Greek legislation to the provisions: (a) Directives 2014/107/EU and (EU) 2015/2060, (b) Directives 2014/86/EU and 2015/121/EU, (c) of Directive 2013/61/EU and other provisions’.]] I would like to ask you from the outset to have your close cooperation so that we can actually finish this afternoon and, if there is a roll-call vote, at 19:00, have closed the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House is organized and operated, eleven students and students and two educational sessions from the 1st Drapetsonas General School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House on Monday, April 4, 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the problem of the operation of the Epirus TEI from the lack of teaching staff and equipment. 3. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the European Parliament, raised by Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the Commission, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problems facing the cow farming and dairy production sector. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 709/28-32016 by MP Heraklion of the New Republic, Eleftherios Aegenakis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the impact on the domestic production of olive oil on the import of duty-free olive oil from Tunisia. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The current question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, on the financing and restoration of a provincial road in Skopelos. 3. The question by No 689/21-32016 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the recovery of agricultural aid. 4. The Question No 639/10-3-2016 by the Deputy of Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the Greek Sugar Industry. Also, on Friday 1 April 2016, the Topical and urgent Questions Card was incorporated into the Tuesday 4 April 2016 topical and urgent debate. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 706/28-32016 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the question of the returnability of the resources received by the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Appropriations (TAF) from the Medieval City of Rhodes in relation to the obligation to implement conservation and promotion projects of the monument. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the surcharges on the prices of goods and services from the planned increase in the excise duty and, in particular, the excise duty on oil. 3. The current question by MP Heraklion of the River Mr Spyridon Dannelis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks regarding the decision of the European Parliament Committee on Budgets to transfer the administrative arm of the European Network and Communication Safety Agency (ENISA) from Heraklion to Athens. 4. The question raised by Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras with the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the risk of delaying the implementation of the EU-Turkey Agreement of 18-3-2016 on Refugee and Migration, due to lengthy judicial proceedings on asylum and subsidiary international protection. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Konstantinos Katsafandou, Member of Parliament, with number 707/28-3-2016, asked MEPs about the role of NGOs in dealing with the refugee and immigration problem. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 718/29-32016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food concerning the implementation of the work of transporting water from Penios to Western Achaia. 3. The current question by MP Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Egypt) Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health about the plan to address the health needs of refugees in Idomeni. 4. The Question No 669/15-32016 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the biomass power plants in the Municipality of Gortyna in Heraklion Crete. 5. The Question No 663/15-32016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance concerning the participation of Greek entrepreneurs in the increase of the capital of Greek Television Channel and the delay of loans granted to Pigasos SA. 6. The question raised by Mr Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the "prohibition of the speech of Metropolitan Laureate and Mesogeias Mr. Nicholas in the 15th Single High School of Thessaloniki". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about the problems that have arisen in the operation of all the social structures and services of the Municipalities of all Chora. 8. Under number 573/23-2-2016, a timely question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the need for more complete information to the customers of PPC on the possibilities and protection offered to sensitive social groups. B. REFERENCES - Questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 2919/202/4-2-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding support for multiple families. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion. I'd like to make three announcements. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras, and the Members of his party and the President of the ALS Parliamentary Group, Mr Panos Kammenos and his party MPs, have tabled a proposal for a committee of inquiry into the legal lending of political parties, as well as the owners of media companies from the banking institutions of the country, in accordance with Rule 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This proposal will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting, printed and distributed to the Members of Parliament, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. [[The proposal referred to above is as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Insert the pubs. 10-20]] The Standing Committees on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and National Defence and Foreign Affairs shall submit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Organisation and Functioning of the Asylum Service, Refugee Authority, Refugee Service and Identifying Service, Recommendation of the General Secretariat for Reception, Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on common procedures for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection (recast)’ (L 180/29-6-2013), provisions on the work of beneficiaries of international protection and other provisions’. The Standing Committees on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and National Defence and Foreign Affairs shall submit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Organisation and Functioning of the Asylum Service, Refugee Authority, Refugee Service and Identifying Service, Recommendation of the General Secretariat for Reception, Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on common procedures for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection (recast)’ (L 180/29-6-2013), provisions on the work of beneficiaries of international protection and other provisions’. Finally, the Ministers for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Foreign, Economic and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights tabled a draft law on 31-03-2016: ‘Structuring the Air Services Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of New Zealand’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle, articles and draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Organisation and functioning of the Asylum Service, the Refugee Authority, the Refugee and Identifying Service, the establishment of the General Secretariat for Reception, the adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on common procedures for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection (recast)’ (L 180/29-6/2013), provisions on the work of beneficiaries of international protection and other provisions’. This draft law, in accordance with the decision of the Standing Parliamentary Committees, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with this procedure, this debate is being concluded in principle and on the articles in a meeting. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are involved, if they wish to do so by the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose, however, that, although it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, five speakers from SYRIZA should be given the floor, three speakers from New Democracy, one speaker from the other parties in this House. I also propose that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. With regard to speaking times, also by way of derogation, the rapporteurs and special speakers should have twelve minutes of speaking time, the competent Minister, 13 minutes, the responsible Deputy Minister, ten minutes, the other ministers and State Secretarys, eight minutes, the Prime Minister and the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, fourteen minutes, if they wish to speak, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups, twelve minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, ten minutes, set up by the parties seventeen minutes. Secondary, if necessary, is limited to half the time of protology. Finally, in accordance with Rule 109, the meeting shall be concluded within a maximum of 10 hours. The parties have already given their speakers. We've got the directory ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u2	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u3	I saw you, Mrs Manolaku. Wait. And before I ask whether this House agrees, after giving the floor to the two colleagues, I would like to ask whether a party intends to vote on a roll-call vote. Above all, in order to facilitate and prepare for the roll-call vote, we need to know this in good time. I am not saying this at the outset at 17.00 this afternoon, because there will be time to prepare for the roll-call vote. Before I ask this House, I will give the floor to Mrs Manolakou. Here, you have the floor for a minute. What's it about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, legislative improvements were made last night. But here articles are deleted or merged. The 89 articles were made 82. This means that it is timely to renumber, so that our proposal for a roll-call vote is correct or our reference to the right articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u5	Mrs Manolakou, you're right. I've already thought about it since the Director briefed and the kids who work in the department. I asked the Minister for it as soon as he got in. During the speech of the first rapporteur, this will be settled. And anyway, for formal reasons, they should be filed in the Minutes and officially redistributed. You're right. He's taken care. Mr. Panagulis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I want thirty seconds. As you know, I do not belong to any party. So every time we talk, I won't be able to talk? I want, Mr President. - Can you hear me? - request approval...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Panagoulis, let it go. I see. It is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but I understand what you are saying. And I believe that for five minutes at the end, after the official list of speakers has been exhausted, you will be given the floor not only to you, but to another colleague who will be in the same category as you. You're right. By way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure, you will be given the floor for five minutes, but at the end of the fourteen 'official' speakers. And the word 'official' I put it in quotes, so that there are no official and informal speakers. I therefore assume that this House is in agreement with the proposal I have made?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u8	The House agreed. We can start with the rapporteur for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Elias Cameroon. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes. It is a good request to keep the time with little tolerance from the Bureau as far as we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u9	Yesterday in committee we had the opportunity to discuss the urgent matter or not. Even though it's thought to be exhausted, I think we should say two things soon. From now on, this bill was being prepared to regulate issues such as strengthening services to deal with the refugee crisis, as well as adapting to EU Directive 2013/32 and posted in February. But you understand, it is urgent because we have to apply the agreement between the European Union and Turkey on 4-4 and we need to adapt our legislation so that we are ready to respond, although the only adaptation within the bill is in fact the one that provides for the shorter dates, the time limits granted to those seeking asylum from our country. Yesterday, and throughout the whole of the debate on immigration, we hear things and we are accused of opposition, especially the Civics, that we do not have a plan, for inadequacies, that we have brought immigrants and all that. Let me make a brief report as soon as possible. When our previous government took over, there was a broken service, scorching powers in various ministries, neither officials nor responsibilities. There was Law 3907/2011, which was adapted to European directives, which provided for several positive points in the provision of asylum, but was never implemented by the New Democracy. There was an obligation in our country until October 2014 to submit a request for assistance to two funds, to AMIF and ISF. It's the Fund and the External Borders Fund. He didn't do anything. Our government did it. There was a delay, because the managing authority should also be created. We have founded it and now we have an address to the Ministry of Finance, so that it can manage the whole situation, which you understand is complex, in terms of the financing and use of European programmes. We have heard criticism of the NGOs, that there is a party, etc. But what did we find when our previous government took over? Listen, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u10	We listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u11	All management then we found the NGOs to do it. There were no services to do this management. And now you're telling us about the NGO party? We have ready rules, because you said and 'to bring in if you have ready provisions', etc. The first is this, which has rules of operation of the Reception and Identification Centres and regulates these issues also in the registration of NGOs and the certification of NGOs. Your policy was this, that we ignore the problem, and even when immigrants and refugees are moving and bothering us, we are doing business to reconstitute our cities, we also create Amyldales, we are closing them in camps - prisons, and that is how we will deal with the problem and prevent refugees and immigrants from coming. In fact, the evolution that we have had, that the flows have increased, that is why you are trying to throw it into our government, that we are responsible, that we have opened the borders and that is why the flows have increased. But you ignore developments in these countries, for though the war was from a long time ago, but all those people who waited for camps in Turkey and the rest of the countries, to return to their countries, were disappointed and needed to find a way out where else, of course, in Europe. You are also ignoring the living conditions of these people who have deteriorated in the camps in these countries. You ignore the fact that they opened a way, even irregularly, from FYROM, to ignore the call from Germany that they needed, and they would accept refugees. Did all this not play a part in increasing the flow? Look, we have a different philosophy and we have to deal with the problem. We are absolutely certain that dealing with humanitarian conditions, addressing on the basis of international conditions, respect for the rights of people seeking asylum and migrants yet is the best solution to deal with this. Not only does it conflict with the interests of our country, but it is the only solution that ensures both the security of our country and the international recognition, if you want, and any benefits we can have in this whole problem from this management. So your policy has not only brought us into such a situation, so that we can now be in this position, with urgent bills, and we urgently have to put order in this whole situation. So it says the bill that the services are being strengthened. First of all, the Asylum Service and the Refugee Authority are now explicitly subject to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. There is a clarification of their subordination to the Ministry of Interior, as in the previous law, L.3907/2011, they were to be placed under the former Ministry of Public Order and Civil Protection. It is also renamed the General Secretariat of Population and Social Cohesion to the General Secretariat of Migration Policy and the Host Service is set up as an executive in the Host System in Greece and aiming at more effective coordination of the management of reception issues of citizens of third countries or stateless persons. The Reception and Identification Service shall be responsible for the operation - Articles 8 to 17 - of the Reception and Identification Centres, the so-called CSTs. At the same time, there will also be mobile units with this competence, open temporary reception structures and open temporary hospitality structures. Staying in reception and hosting centres will be under limit of the freedom of the person until the completion of the recording and identification process. An exception is provided for in particular in the interests of health of the remaining person. This was provided for by a corresponding provision of Law 3107/2011. Applicants for international protection shall be provided with open structures. Open structures shall also be provided for persons on a return, when safety, escape or when issues of vulnerability, voluntary repatriation, etc. are not raised. Throughout this process and cases all the rights of those entering our country are guaranteed under Directive 2013/32 of the European Union and the Geneva and New York Conventions, etc. Why? Because sufficient time is provided for information and requesting, it is planned to ensure living conditions... One request to the Minister: In the amendments tabled, an addition is made to the effect that the applicant for asylum does not have to apply to the second level. I don't know, do we have to see this? We've already got times together. Let us, as far as possible, allow asylum seekers to exercise their rights fully, even though, as I have said before, all of this is foreseen in the bill. It is planned to ensure living conditions, free legal support, the possibility of objecting to the Secondary School - but what I have said to you - health care and psychological support, special care for vulnerable groups, such as unaccompanied children, single parents, disabled people, older people, etc. - and I'm not talking in detail because of time. There is therefore special care for these groups, with interpreters, etc. An Economic Services Directorate is being established, as I have said before, and the role of the High Commissioner is determined, which is a guarantee for the exercise of all these rights. Article 22 also regulates the granting of a residence permit for humanitarian reasons, particularly those who have applied for up to now, and there are some who have been pending applications for five to fifteen years. Public procurement procedures are provided for, as in other cases. Procurement and all services related to migration shall be exempted from VAT. There are also arrangements for funding the programmes, the multiannual national programme, the public investment budget, etc. Finally, I would like to mention this because you tell us that we have no plan and we act on it, and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will be very brief, Mr President. The fact that we had a plan is seen from the beginning our government took over, and with the establishment of the Ministry of Migration Policy and the fact that we tried to internationalise the problem. Until then, the government was not even involved and it was considered a problem between Greece and Turkey. We are the ones who raised this issue and became a European, firstly - we can say international - and we are the ones who took the initiative and pushed for various debates and for various decisions to be made in the European Union, either the previous or the latter. And this latter may worry us about its implementation, because there are no guarantees, we may be concerned about the fact that we are finally applying all the things that we are voting on today - and that is why we must give all our powers to do so, so the services must be directed, so we must make use of the aid we have asked for - but let us not forget that its main points are in the context of both our draft and the joint decision of the Heads of State or Government. It is very important, that is to say, that the transfer is agreed - we will see to what extent it will be implemented - by Turkey in the European Union. This is a safe way to refugees - and it is a blow to traffickers - and it is an opportunity for them to avoid drowning in the sea. As was also within our objectives and it is good that the agreement with Turkey is being reactivated for readmission, which has existed since 2003, but has not been implemented. It is very important that there is this agreement where there was nothing. That was our plan. As far as the current situation is concerned, although there was indeed a delay, the problem is currently being dealt with, even though we were surprised by the sharp closure of borders, while there was some room for manoeuvre. As far as dealing with the issue from now on is concerned, we will also hear the Minister. I would just like to make one clarification, because they have been referred to in closed and open centres. Yes, this bill stipulates all these things, but it also provides that in exceptional situations in border regions, when it is considered that there are various risks or different reasons, etc, they can operate closed centres. In this respect, I think the Minister will also tell us whether the centres on the islands will be closed or not. As far as I know, it'll be closed. However, the draft law also provides for the possibility of opening up centres. After all, these are defined by international conventions and we will be consistent in all these conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 4th High Chania Crete. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Vassilis Kikilias, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor. Mr Kikilia, you have the floor with regard to the tolerance of time, as was the case with the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a lot of talk in committee yesterday - I am obliged to stress this, in order for the Greek people to know this - about urgency and there was a specific argument on our part as to why this bill does not constitute regulations, provisions, case law that is urgent. Question: Major Opposition, New Democracy, wants to support the European directive? Is it prepared to put back on the effort that is being made to limit refugee - migration flows and find a solution? Of course! Proof? Kyriakos Mitsotakis went abroad, supported the European People's Party in the country and believes that a solution can be found and this solution will be tabled by the Civic Opposition, to be sure. This mess and the chaos you've brought to the country won't let go of it like that. The articles relating to the directive, of course, and we shall vote on them. We know who she is. We understand the difficulties, there is scepticism, we have arguments about the problematic way in which you are going to implement them, but we are here. Question: Do you need to ask the colleagues of the Police Department to reveal that the bill is not urgent and that this is something else, that here, gentlemen, you want your left idealism, your chaotic policies and the business to make them the law of the state? No, Mrs. Bakoyannis didn't say so. Or rather the woman said so, but she did not have to say so herself, why did Mrs Christodoulopoulos say so, which she was unable to hold back and, indirectly, she clearly came to the Commission yesterday and told us 'Lords, what ten and fifteen hours you speak to me'? Because, incidentally, we are talking about fifty-six regulatory acts, gentlemen, which you must bring in order to implement the law. So no urgency exists. You're making fun of us here. However, my colleague and comrade told you that this is not the draft law that you think of, for the European directive, which the '53' have called into question - so you have your issues internally, do not talk about us - but about what I have given as Minister for Public Consultation, which have not been in all this time, and we have now found an opportunity with Mr Mouszala to bring along. Here you can't keep each other alone. Here you do not only mock opposition, colleagues in this Parliament, but also the Greek people, when after 15 months of becoming a rapporteur, a mess in the country last year, and when nine hundred eighty thousand people who have left them by you idealists, the left-wing humanists at God's mercy in Idomeni and Piraeus, who are ill, who children are in the cold, you do not even have the sensitivity to say an apology to these people and the Greek people that seemed to be much more in mind, faith and dignity than you. For you left them 15 months so too, with their enthusiasm, with their patriotism, with the sense of hospitality, the islanders, the volunteers and all of them, proved that they are much higher and much more decent and much better than the Greek Government. It is not enough, therefore, that you are not apologising, but you come here to accuse the Civic Opposition that until 2014 made the obvious: it had a specific structure in the Ministry of Public Order, Greek laws that coincided with European legislation, specific flows, separation of refugees - they applied for asylum and received it or not, depending on whether it was right - and illegal immigrants, who were in closed pre-repeal centres. So the message went to modern smugglers across the street. The country tolerated flows towards Europe, but from various countries. And you come to denounce this and tell us what? I'll tell you what you're coming to tell us. You come to tell us that Article 46 removes the criminality of illegal entry into the country from an alien - irregular now. There, you insist. "The same My Pantelaki, the same My Fully!" The European partners have told you that. You brought NATO, didn't you? ‘First time left!’. You did everything you could in the book of Central Right or Right, to insist on your case law. That was the first. Secondly, you have at least fifteen cases of derogating from public procurement provisions and procurement, competitions and position cover, without publication, without publication, Article 71 and Article 72 - and is at the discretion of the Minister of the Interior. And why don't you say it directly? Why are you bringing in a law? You don't have to. You say: 'Lords, where we want to give them up'. However, they will not make that money to the refugees. Tell the truth. They will go to the "local", to the friends, to the institutions of society. Who are the actors in society? Without publication, at this time when everything is in the microscope, which the Greek people are looking to find from their lap to support, where are you exaggerating him? Do you want a few people you choose to give this money? About the backlog - Article 22 - seven thousand people whose cases are pending for five years or more, with a signature of a Secretary-General you have legalized them. Do you know where he is? Do you know who they are? Do you know if they're refugees, immigrants, terrorists, if they're in the country, if they're not in the country? I'm not talking about services. Because he is responsible for this policy 'we are opening up our borders and they are all going through'...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u14	You who had the backlog for 15 years?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u15	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u16	Mrs. Catrivanu, calm down. I'll talk to you when you talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u17	The people responsible for open borders policy, 'we give them all papers and go to Europe', is why some extremists in Europe used this unwise policy to blame us on security issues, which now exist in Europe, and they found the opportunity to close the 'Balkan corridor'. And instead of swinging their fingers with an example of the Greek people, they squeeze your fingers on us, for example, with your incomplete government. And instead of being ashamed of that and apologise, you come here and ask us for the floor. At first you understand that, as you bring this bill, there is no way we can vote. These articles relating to the European directive on the first stage - I stress them first - will be voted on and we will support them. We have our reservations about the directive on you. For all the rest, the Greek people will learn - and you will have the responsibility of yourself, gentlemen, you and ANELs - that in the next few weeks and months, you will lose control of the institutions of society, of the NGOs, who will do what they want, of the committees that will not work and of the chaos that will be created in the country in terms of immigration, refugee and security, you will have the exclusive responsibility. And because you also spoke to the Prime Minister here, at the previous meeting on justice, to change the case-law of both the ministers' and the two terms of reference, which were not and were not there, should you think again, ladies and gentlemen, of the way in which you and your ministers want to legislate? Or explain to us, without there being anywhere in the Transparency, without there being any three offers, without there being any elementary control over the services, without seeming to be anyone, what and why, if a Secretary-General or Minister can give the funds from the European Union or from where they come wherever he wants and what he wants. However, they will not reach the refugees. Is that left-wing moral? Is this the first time left? Is this the example that you want to bring and for which the Prime Minister has spoken about? He said new customs and customs, "we are not like you." Indeed, you're not like us. You are the oldest, most old-fashioned, grey, and strange of all is what it has to do with the way it worked - badly - the Migration. That is what you have copied, and that is what you are incorporating and I am very sorry, but I want to tell you that unfortunately the new, which you publish, is nothing but the old one. It is the way you want to distribute public money to a few people. Obviously, we have nothing to do with this. I could talk about many articles and provisions. It is important to say that here you are actually trying two things: make an address at the General Secretariat and make a department, address and change it from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Immigration. And you are bringing this to a staple with what Mrs Christodoulopoulos said and with a European directive, and you are saying'solution' to the refugee - immigration! You have no idea what's going on with you. You're losing control over public health and hygiene. You know that very well. The incidents of violence, stabbing, beating, rock fighting in the closed centers - not in the closed center we had, one, two - three, but in the fifty you have built - is one behind the other. The Port, the Police, the ones you used to exult last year, the ones you said corrupted and that they drowned the world and that you now send them for Nobel, they have reached the limit of their intolerance. The Greek society as well. What are you doing? You are bringing us a bill which is essentially a string of three or four things, full of clippings. After all, in every article there is, in fact, the relevant provision that says that by means of a legislative act or a ministerial decision, it can be changed. So, you're not sure about that either. We are telling you that in order for the bill to be implemented, fifty-six amendments are needed. We are also telling you that the way you operate will set a fire on us in our relationship with our neighbours in relation to Europeans. You'll see that in a few weeks. And you're asking us to support. And not only are you asking us to support, but you're shaking our finger. And while we were in a good mood indeed to come and support for emergencies in the European directive - as we do - and bring us a bill in which we could discuss three days in committee and three more days in plenary and find a common place, as defined by the Constitution, what are you doing? You're asking us to be part of the crime. New Democracy is not going to be with you. I conclude by saying that the refugee - immigration - has brought it to a matter of high internal security for Greece and for Europe. You have no strategy, you have no strategy, you have no plan, and you don't know, gentlemen, what you're signing with this bill, you and not us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u18	You didn't even need the tolerance. Thank you, too. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we would like to emphasise once again our opposition to the fact that this bill comes in urgent form. We cannot understand why. We said that yesterday and during the committee. There was no reason for a bill to come as an emergency at the moment. In fact, we know that it is not going to apply, as it says and means, for the next three to four months at least. So, here's a clear mockery. The government simply wants to legislate in favour of illegal immigrants and refugees and not in favour of the Greek nation. We are particularly impressed by the fact that the bills that are coming have to do with a competition, I could say, the Government with the Civic Opposition of who will legislate and institutionalise better for the illegal immigrants who dominate our country. So to highlight a few things and see what the truth is - because we have heard a lot about refugees and that they are afflicted by those who come in here, there is certainly a small number that is so - to say the things that you like to say, by EUROSTAT, some things that you usually comment on. The previous year 11 thousand three hundred seventy applications have been made for asylum. Of these, only three thousand and twenty-five are from Syrians, that is to say, people who have a direct problem with war in their country. The others are from Afghans, Iraqis, Bangladeshians, Pakistani. So, here we see that there is not as much an issue in the refugee as the Golden Dawn has been shouting for so many years about illegal immigration. We also want to say and stress that, unlike those tears that we see in the news reports, women with babies in their hands, who are a small minority, from eight hundred and sixty-seven thousand, twenty-three people, who entered our borders in 2015 in a fraudulent and smuggling manner, the seventeen thousand eighteen thousand are between the ages of thirty and thirty-four. We are talking about this in order for the Greek people to know what is true and what is really happening at our borders and to know - and to stress it once again - that the problem of the Golden Dawn - and the reality is - is not refugee, it is illegal immigration. It's a problem for our country. We have opened the border, we are a country with a perforated border in which anyone who wants to enter, does what they want and then the Greek Parliament is in favour of it. We find them homes, we put them in five-and-a-half hotels, we give them food, we dress them, we feed them and we water them - enough, the patience of the Greek citizen is now over! - contrary to what is happening with ordinary Greek citizens - we repeat - who face huge food problems, health care, education for their children. We see that there is no plan for these people to be served, but they have really been left to their fate and they are slavery to what occurs every day. So we will stress that the problem is not Islamophobia and the so-called racism that exists - because whoever is telling the truth today in Greece is called racist and fascist - but the problem is violence, terrorism, which comes from Islamics. If any of us haven't seen it, we're really fooling around. It is the violence and terrorism that existed some time ago in France, which has been in Belgium, which has existed in many countries, not to the extent that it has been in Belgium and France, but we see that there are daily cases both in Germany and Sweden and Norway. These are all the Islamists, they are the illegal immigrants, who have held every corner down to Europe. But here we are dealing with Greece's problem. Let the Europeans, as they have done, accept them. They're their own problems. Greece is not the fault of anything. He didn't cause any trouble. He did not go anywhere else to raise a matter and must be protected from what is happening. Greece must guard its borders. We must stop this laughter which is happening, to guard NATO and Turkey's borders. We must finally get into this process, protect the customs, the holy and loyal of our country. If, as I have already heard from the rapporteurs of the two previous parties, it is to harmonise ourselves with the European directives to be good children, to accept this process as well, we as a Golden Dawn will stress that we are not in line with European conditions, we are not in line with those who have reached us at an impoverishment point and who have reached our homeland to be truly unsatisfactory. We do not have to deal with them unless they respect our decisions and respect them. It is only in this process that we have to discuss. It must also be stressed here that, with this bill, with the status of the asylum seeker in Greece, someone, even if the application he will submit, will be able to enjoy the benefits provided for, even for several years in Greece. So that creates another problem and we open a door even more to justify all that is happening. Even if the other person is assumed to be irregular, if the other person is conceived of being smuggled and the asylum application is not even accepted, he will still be able to stay in here. So imagine what we're talking about. As we talk about all of this, let us also take a walk from the wonderful centres of illegal immigrants that we have done throughout the territory and see what the nerves of these illegal immigrants are, those who have literally smuggled into our country. See, then, their courage: They don't accept food from the Red Cross, because there's exactly the cross upstairs while they ask for the half to be. They make terrible incidents between them, and that of course does not work for a portion of food. Because we know, very well, that food and clothing goes unpaidly to illegal immigrants, unlike Greeks who, in some centres of illegal immigrants present, in the Schisto area in particular, - and where you can come in any day you want to see it - are begging for a portion of food and those responsible, who are in there, tell them that they can't give them, because the orders they have are to give only those who live in these centres of illegal immigrants. This is the reality, therefore, that some do not want to see or - even worse - some people you see it are not interested in, because very simply your ideology is transnational, your ideology is 'under the homes', 'under the border', 'under the religions'. We will continue to fight for these Greek citizens, we will try to justify them. And finally, I would like to see from all of you your humanism, bring bills for these Greek citizens as well. Because at the moment, if what I have heard from the SYRIZA rapporteur is being implemented to the average Greek citizen, his daily life will be greatly improved. But that's not where we care. For the average Greek citizen, for every Greek citizen, do you know what will come? There will be a new bill in a few days, which will be a storm of taxes! The Greek is to pay, the Greek is to literally drink the blood, the Greek is to take advantage of it, and the illegal immigrants, the poor, who are in here are to serve them. They are the ones that we see playing a stone war at the port of Piraeus, they are the ones that we see taking steps slowly and slowly in the center of Athens. Why are they marching down the center of Athens? What is their complaint from Greece and from the Greek citizens we are talking about? It's just that people are ungrateful, they're dangerous, because that's how they've learned to live. And we are not, of course, talking about all the people who have come but about the vastly larger part. These people don't respect anything. And to understand it once again, they hate Greece and are currently taking advantage of it in order to get through here, get some papers, which they want to get and do their job. And it is incomprehensible - I repeat - these people live in five-star hotels in various regions of Greece, when we see our fellow people, the Olympians in Omonia and various neighborhoods in Greece sleeping in cardboard. Really, why hasn't there been any structure, some organization, some group of the Greek Government, taken these people who are there, put them in the hotels, to live human beings, as they deserve? They are at least Greek citizens and have worked for their homeland. And, unfortunately, as you have done so many years, as you have done in the last six years, many of them have been found looking in the waste bin to find them to eat. So that is the case, and instead of seeing it you are completely indifferent. This is a shame for the Greek people and at last the Greeks must wake up and claim their rights. Because they have rights in here, which you've trampled. They have rights that you do not respect at all. You are simply competing on who will be the 'best child' in the European Union, who will fall over the head more in order to implement the laws that they tell him. To conclude, for us the issue - I repeat and I stress - is not'refugee' but 'immigrant' and in the way you operate will never stop, just instead of having fifty-two thousand that we allegedly have now - and why should it be fifty-two thousand and not fifty-seven, who assures that? - we'll have sixty in a little bit of time, we'll have eighty, seventy percent, and the problem will constantly perpetuate and grow. And when we called these two to three years ago and said that we would get to these points, some people said to us "terrorists", that we do not see before us, that we are 'bad fascists'. That's where we're experiencing this right now! This is where you have thrown him out of his house and put him in the hotels and homes of illegal immigrants, who are watering them, feeding them and giving them an allowance! Things will be even worse in a short time, because they will revolutionise and create huge problems in Greek society. That is why you will be accountable to the Greek people and not the Golden Dawn. I would like to stress that the Golden Dawn has tabled a proposal for a law, which very easily can solve the issue of illegal immigrants. In the proposal we have tabled we mention characteristics: "Strengthening at least two years for any foreigner who enters the country illegally. Prison will be suspended or converted into money. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The sentence will be carried out in special detention centres for illegal immigrants, far from the inhabited places, to avoid a burden on the social fabric. Apart from imprisonment, there will also be a further penalty for the provision of social benefits for the State, according to the model applied in many Western countries, such as the United States, Finland, Denmark, etc. Serious sanctions will be imposed on the traffickers under conditions, even if they are incapable of being incapacitated. In this way, be sure that the illegal immigration problem will end very soon. I would also like to stress one last thing. Why is it that all these illegal immigrants only cross the Greek border and do not cross elsewhere? The answer is very easy. The answer has been given by dozens of those who have been asked, who say that Greece is the only country in which it is not considered a crime to cross its borders. It's in all the other countries. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] With the Golden Dawn, then, it will also be seen as a crime to smuggle our country's borders!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the special speaker of the Democratic Association Mr Georgios Arvanitides. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, today and yesterday, the importance of words changes, once again. After the rule of SYRIZA - ANEL no one can predict what situation the country will be. It can, however, provide for a change in the meaning of the word 'yes', the word 'no' to 'yes', if it relates to the referendum, the word'memorandum', which will be replaced by the word 'programme'. With your contribution, the refugee who enters Europe after 20 March will now be called an immigrant. But the word 'urgent' will also make any other sense. You made something like a ministry 15 months ago to regulate immigration policy. You consider today urgent what you forgot to do a year ago when the flows have increased. You chose a two-day process to win what? If we had a week, what would happen, what would it change? You say that the law has nothing to do with the EU-Turkey agreement. You may thus ease the pain of your comrades who cannot withstand your right turn, but you cannot make fun of the House. You don't have to be a lawman to understand your bilinguality. The Prime Minister described Dabutoglu as tempting when it was tabled. He agreed with the other leaders of the European Union on the last session's proposal. The agreement says they are all returning to Turkey indiscriminately. Your humanism had an end date on the last summit. That's what's in the process. By the urgency procedure you are trying to hide your poaching. But the question is, why did we get this far? You have agreed with all the proposals from the European partners, whether they were refugees friendly or not. You were committed without fulfilling any of them. You spoke about the rights of refugees, but you waited until a few weeks ago to build a typified hospitality structure. You only did so when refugees and immigrants were trapped in our country. We ask what kind of structures you have built and continue to build. You've made soul wardrobes. In my area, refugees and immigrants are hosted. There was tension in various regions. And how can it not be when you surprised everyone? People didn't know what this was about. And you know who ultimately benefits from lack of information and consultation. The solution for you is to build the structures in the most 'degraded' areas, very simply because you think this is a good policy. In the most cynical way you chose structures - and you told us - on the basis of the zone value of each region, such as the Diavatas of Thessaloniki. Fortunately, humanity wins the extremist voices, but you continue to play with fire. You've done it since the beginning of the crisis. It turned out that for the government of three hundred refugees in the Mars Field they are far more important than the thousands in Idomeni. The government has so far taken very low levels in operational planning, but excellently, as always, in communication. With communications tactics, however, you just earn time. You do not solve problems that are growing and in the case of the current situation they have already taken uncontrolled proportions. Apart from Article 60, all the other articles of the law are pretextary. Some are more, some less useful. The Asylum Service and the First Reception Service need to be upgraded to meet the new needs. But I ask: When was this need created? Now or for many months? If you had done your duty while we had to, we would not have reached such a great deal of need for Turkey. I don't know how well a person can feel with the condition he's shaped, but we're not feeling well at all. I now come to some more specific issues, given the limitation of time. Why should direct assignments be made by the TATs? To create conditions and phenomena of a client system? Would there be such an issue, if you had even a stubborn design, to predict the needs and normally become the competitive procedures involved? Obviously not. Do you have a plan, even now? In July I was the rapporteur in the draft law on the award of citizenship to the children of the second generation. We voted as a PASOK at the time, as a Democratic Integration, but it does not apply until now. We see that you are creating a new Department of Immigration and Citizenship Information Systems, while the Ministry of the Interior can work with great success the systems for elections, registries and polls. I hope that your practice does not cause other problems. Then we also supported the establishment of a managing authority for the money allocated by the European Union to refugees. The result? You set up a special secretariat and a service at the Ministry of Interior that you abolish today, just a few months later, because you failed to make it work. You've been building the same special secretariat to another ministry since the beginning. Will he have the same fate as the previous one? You must not play, ladies and gentlemen, with these things and you are playing and you are not ruling the country. As you play with the creation of the new General Secretariat. You want to tell us this was it until now? How many general secretaryships do they need to cover your bulimia for poster positions? The services coordinate with each other. Here in a short time the coordinators will be more than the coordinators. You're wasting the state's powers by slowly building a new bureaucracy. You are panicked by your failures so far and pour mud into the eyes of the Parliament and the Greek people. Making the wrap and the contents let it be made later. I want to say something else that I've experienced in my area. You change the name of the General Secretariat of Population and Social Cohesion in Migration Policy. You are limiting the subject of a secretariat which could finally deal with the problems of romances and recurring people. This was sought by the PASOK Government with this General Secretariat. Today which Ministry, which general secretariat, are these matters dealt with? In order not to hurry and think that I propose that you build two more general secretariats, I say 'no' to you quickly. Under the same roof you can cover more topics. This is how a modern administration works. Ladies and gentlemen, we also call on you to incorporate into the provisions of the bill the proposals tabled by the ESDC on the protection of refugees and migrants with disabilities and chronic illnesses so that they are not the victims of discrimination. Since disability and chronic illness are a situation, but also a cause for discrimination that occurs in each vulnerable group and in implementation of the constitutional requirements, as well as obligations arising from the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we believe it should be pointed out that: Firstly, all the recommended services, with the bill, must be fully accessible to refugees, migrants and disabled workers. Secondly, there will be coverage of the interpretation of deaf or severe refugees and migrants through a programme agreement with the deaf Federation, in accordance with the provisions of the Law. Regulation (EC) No 3016/2003. I also give the relevant document of the ESDP proposals for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Georgios Arvanitidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] After all, the Democratic Association, through the President of Mrs Fofi Gennimata, has tabled an integrated proposal, the "KIVOTOS" programme, which concerns unaccompanied children, families with children and vulnerable groups. I will make a few more remarks on specific articles. In Article 2(1), Article 5(1), Article 11(1) and (2), there are establishments of directors or governors who, while presided over by public services, are selected without any objective criterion and, in particular, without the procedure for the register of civil servants, which you have adopted in this Chamber some time ago. Articles 7(2) and 17 shall be authorised by the Government to amend by a Presidential Decree the provisions of the law in the absence of the Parliament. It is unacceptable and unconstitutional. The last subparagraph of Article 19 provides that all contracts shall cover emergency and emergency assistance by 31-12-2016. This requirement must be met each time and it is unacceptable that they be covered in advance by a law. Article 74(1) provides that by decision of the authorising officer, Minister, Director of the Asylum Service, i.e. on the presumption of a political person, public procurement may be excluded from the regular procedure, irrespective of the amount of the contract. This is, of course, a budgetaryly unacceptable regulation. The decision must be taken by another body and under no circumstances by the authorising officer, and the law must establish a maximum amount above which the procedure for exemption from normality may not apply. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote for some provisions and vote against others. Many will be voting in favour of them, despite the fact that we have considerable differences in many articles. We will give another chance not to you, but to the country. I close my position with a good news we had yesterday, a good news he has and his negative side. The Union of regions has done with its own limited possibilities what you have not done so far. He made a first - perhaps incomplete - attempt to record the characteristics of the enclaved people who are hosted in the Attica region. It has given us an image of the real dimensions of what our country is experiencing. But you, who are responsible, have given no evidence. This evidence we don't need to do doctoral. Political and practical applications are being built on them. These policies should have been implemented for months. Unfortunately, you do not have a compass and you operate in a transparent manner, not only on direct assignments and recruitment, but even on the basic elements that the House needs to contribute to the necessary policies. I don't know why you're hiding the truth. But you must start calling it. The slogans must be over. Your humanitarian alibi no longer exists. He's gone to the summit. He's gone to the islands. He's gone to Piraeus. He's squawking in Idomeni every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. George Arvanitides. The reason is now the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u23	We disagree and denounce the urgent nature of the matter yesterday. We have not been persuaded by the reasons put forward by the Minister responsible. On the contrary, after confirming that it was ready by February, which proves that the urgency was a conscious choice, in order not to reveal the undermining of international law and therefore the reactionary and illegal content of the bill. And that's not an early April lie. It is also no coincidence that we have called for a representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, in order to hear their position, after having condemned the European Union-Turkey Agreement as illegal, and you are deaf. It was followed by the authoritarian method, of course, and by the previous governments and you condemned it. On the back, however, refugees are playing games. You are afraid that illegality will be heard with regard to the laws and rights of refugees, whose inhumanity and their suffering will continue with the stadium of the European Union and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. You make almonds, which will be managed, will have a role in all levels of sinful non-governmental organisations and you can also justify their presence in all services and stages, including refugees and immigrants, from the Asylum Service to the hot spots. That is why you also create a register of certified bodies in the 'civil society', namely NGOs, legalising their presence, even though you know their suspicious role. You are head of the so-called 'open reception and hospitality structures', even individuals who will contribute with the public. And you assign the guarding of open hosting or hosting structures to security companies. In fact, with the bill, you are integrating all the reactionary decisions of the European Union, which you have signed up to, from the creation of a hot spot for the choice of minimum refugees to be relocated to other Member States, until refugees return to Turkey, which your rapporteur even considered to be particularly positive. In other words, you're sending them back to death, where they tried to escape. You adapt the asylum legislation and the beneficiaries of international protection to these decisions, which are in complete contrast with the International Refugee Law, despite the hypocritical references and appeals to the Geneva Convention you are making. With the decisions of the European Union and this bill, in fact, the rights of refugees are being violated, their caging in Greece is being strengthened, namely, the Dublin Regulation. What does the regulation say? That if a refugee wants to go, for example, to Germany and go first from another Member State, then he will have to seek asylum from that State and not want to stay in it. It's unacceptable! That is why thousands of people are trapped, and that is why a Dublin National Unit is being set up in Article 1 instead of the abolition of this unacceptable regulation. Moreover, the mere fact that an autonomous asylum service is being set up and an autonomous refugee authority means that hundreds of thousands of applications are being prepared, even though almost no refugee wants to stay in Greece. And don't say, as an excuse, the relocation process in other Member States, namely, the selection procedure for a minimum number, because this process is being stifled and, after the hit in Brussels, it will become even slower or abolished by some Member States. The bill therefore legislates hot spots and mechanisms of the European Union with participation, that is, FRONTEX and the European Asylum Office. They are intended to be set up mainly in border regions and even in the inland areas, and mobile standardisation units are also being set up. Refugees and immigrants are still to be detained from three days ago, which may be extended for up to twenty-five days. In fact, there is an example of the new way, supposedly hosting the islands, for those who are destined to return to Turkey, namely, the Syrian refugees will remain prisoners until they are deported to Turkey, there to lose their status as a refugee and return from where they left to rescue. Is that humanity and solidarity to refugees? For this reason alone, the description of open reception or hospitality structures is a joke. The bill makes the detention of asylum seekers a norm, even though they should be banned or exempt. The provision for completion, within six months, of the entire procedure for examining asylum applications, both to the first and to the second degree, sounds like a bitter joke, when it is known that it has taken years to complete the proceedings. With what personal or what training? Or are they hoping to help the people who will send the other States of the European Union? What will happen is the massive rejection of asylum applications by carbon procedures, that is, what the previous governments have done. Is that solidarity in refuge? There is also provision for the operation of special foreign accommodation facilities, even in open hospitality or reception areas for those who are destined for expulsion, but also for those who are temporarily impossible to deport, i.e. for new situations, such as in Amygdaleza and Corinth, which already have six thousand so-called 'irregular' immigrants. It's the same policy as the previous ones. There is a lot of talk about the bill not providing for refugees to return to Turkey and, on the contrary, provides for all the guarantees of international law on non-refoulement. It's a lie. We are clearly saying that it is not innocent to incorporate Directive 32/2013 into this bill. After all, you could not name Turkey as a safe third country within the bill, when it is known that Turkey has not incorporated the Additional Protocol of 1967 of the Geneva Convention, what is positive is left of the international law created by the decisive contribution of the socialist countries. It therefore only gives Turkey a refugee status to European citizens and not Syrian citizens. However, the Government has signed and triumphantly criticised the dreadful European Union-Turkey agreement providing for returns of Syrian refugees from Greece to Turkey, with the prospect of equal number of refugees resettled to Member States of the European Union. So we ask this: at the time when Turkey's resettlement of refugees to Member States of the European Union is voluntary, why has there not yet been a quota that Germany will take so many, so many and so on? And yet, the infrastructure and structures you are building are not about fifty or a hundred thousand refugees, but about hundreds of thousands of refugees. You have done, it seems, agreements and you hide them, as you can assure them that the cause of the refugee, namely the guilty, is the allies of all of you, the USA, NATO, the European Union, who have unleashed interventions and wars in the wider region of the Middle East, the Eastern Mediterranean, North Africa, in the context of their competition with other forces, like Russia. The situation has been exacerbating over the past few years. Intensified by the development of Turkey's military action in northern Syria. Even here the United States collected American families and returned them to the United States. At the same time, we have a direct involvement of NATO in the Aegean, with the decision of NATO's Council of Defence Ministers, at the request of the Greek Government. That is why your responsibilities are heavy and great. Indeed, it is challenging to put NATO, the people's killer, as a body for delivering unpaid donations to meet refugees' needs, when it is known everywhere that the refugee is being used as a pretext for NATO's presence. He's losing refugees. He doesn't stop them from arriving in Greece. The real reason is related to competition and the escalation of the Syrian war and possible new interventions in other countries in the region, which will exacerbate the problem of the refugee waves. You know that. That's why you're taking emergency measures for hundreds of thousands of refugees who will see closed borders, fences, repression forces, tear gas. And, of course, asylum seekers have no right to choose the Member State from which they will seek asylum. That is what Dublin and the European Community directive you incorporate. Thus, however, traffickers’ circuits are being strengthened, giving food to fascist organisations, racism and xenophobia. Of course, Mr Mardas, who does not have an article on refugees, will also protest, unless you pass it through the multitude of ministerial decisions, which is a sign of the entire bill. And it's not a joke, but inhumanity and cynicism all its majesty. It is the continuation of the shameful agreement between the European Union and Turkey and all the decisions of the European Union that look into their pockets of refugees. That is why some Member States of the European Union are seizing the honours and economies of refugees. We are voting against the bill. However, we will press for you to withdraw support for the decisions of the European Union which, together with the Schengen Treaty and the Dublin Treaty, condemn thousands of refugees in caging in Greece, despite their will. We will press for the immediate safe transport of refugees - migrants from the first host countries such as Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon and the Greek islands in their countries of destination, under the responsibility of the UN and the European Union, and with full respect for the rights deriving from the refugee status. We will press for respect for the Geneva and International Refugees Convention, in order to recognise the rights of asylum seekers for all nationalities, recognised by the UN and including Afghan refugees. We will press to stop the police measures to suppress refugees and to create public decent temporary hospitality facilities, first reception, care, registration, which will allow for the safe continuation of a journey of those who want - who are the vast majority - to go to the country of final destination. We are proposing to withdraw NATO from the Aegean, as it is dangerous for him to be present. Finally, we must - and we want - mention the fact that the Greek people, the schools, all the people's families and the trade unions, even though they are facing the heavy consequences of the capitalist economic crisis, are expressing total and touching solidarity with refugees and expressing it in every way. At the same time, however, our people must be organized and fought to overthrow the system of imperialist wars, poverty, racism and xenophobia, torment and refugee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u24	Thank you Mrs Diamanto Manolakos, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next speaker, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Chamber and informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and students and three educational attendants from Palaiochori Kalkidikis High School, hosted in Athens under an educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Jason Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have about two hundred pages to read in one day. If I read so much at university, today I'd have an orderly degree. Anyway, let's get started. In Article 2(7), even representatives of the Civil Society will be able to exercise the powers of asylum offices and, as you say, those bodies that respond to the proper standards of quality and safety. And who will determine whether these bodies fulfil these conditions? You can explain this to us a little later, stating that the criteria will be set by the Ministers for Home Affairs, Administrative Reconstruction and Economy. In other words, the ministers will set the criteria for evaluation of NGOs. Is it possible to hear these things in a European country parliament or are we now so close to Africa? However, to make this clear, as was stated yesterday by the Minister of Administrative Law, Mr Lazaratos, in the press, Greece is once again, massively in breach of Article 3 of the Convention on Human Rights. Article 3 of the ECHR applies to any person outside the structure under the sun, air and rain. Through passivity, procrastination and general uncertainty as to the timely adoption of the necessary material and legal measures, Greece has made the refugees and immigrants of Identified victims of degrading treatment, which shows a lack of respect for their dignity by creating reasonable feelings of fear, anxiety and inferiority, able to lead them to desperation. You are creating new structures with uptakes outside the ADP of about a thousand two hundred people for eight to sixteen months and with remuneration of some of them in excess of them, even as defined by the Minister for the Interior. And how not to smile bitterly when we see in the Report of the State Accountancy - which, not least, does not mention an overall estimated cost, but only estimated costs - that the public investment programme will pay the liability allowances. The well-known client state in new glory! Of course, contracts for all kinds of work related to the reception and residence of refugees and migrants will be concluded by way of derogation from the existing provisions by delegation and without the opinion of the Single Conventions up to 31-12-2016. Party's real anticipated. We shall not, of course, vote for this provision, as well as the corresponding Article 72, which, fortunately, you have withdrawn, as we have seen, together with Article 73. Will you explain to us, Minister, what about European funds, with the help promised by our partners in Europe and which, according to Commissioner Avramopoulos, are available for absorption already last summer? We read in the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State that the state budget will be charged by the creation of all these new structures, by the supply-side tenders, by the costs already incurred and the costs to be incurred for the movement of refugees and immigrants with amounts of millions of euros. This is without reflecting the total cost. Will you explain to us what is going on with European funds, what is required of work to be done to liberate them? Have we received from the European Union up to now even EUR 1? If not, why? Who will give a reason for not absorbing funds? We demand explanations. We repeat that we will closely monitor all the actions of this kind, which relate to expenditure on refugee. We will not allow the humanitarian crisis to take place for parties of some days. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make a quick review. The responsibilities of the government "the first time left" are enormous, starting with the policies of the open borders, the "departure of FRONTEX from the Aegean" and the "now NATO likes", the "under the fence", the Nitsa orders, the "opened and we waited for you", the "go away, pity, disappear." The various criminals around the world, traffickers, should declare Mrs Christodoulopoulos to their national benefactors. Poor people from all over the world were found trapped in Greece, without wanting to stay and without being able to leave, and they are not even expected to leave. It's part of the deal. Only those who entered the next day of the agreement hope and hope that they will once leave. Those who came in earlier, they're staying here, most of them. Instead of making a macrobutte and finding in Spain, Moroccans prefer to travel to the coasts of Asia Minor and cross across. Why is that? However, the second-time government on the left did not make it better, despite the much more serious attitude of the Minister than his predecessor. A cocoon doesn't bring spring! And Mr. Muzalas proved to be a little bit on the situation, little and only. By running a newly established ministry, with no resources, without clear responsibilities, it was on the basis of Mr Kammenos and Mr Kammenos. Result? All agreed, hot spots and hosting structures, which we committed in October, are currently being implemented by fast track procedures, opaque, direct commissions, while if we started them in time, we could do with normal, transparent procedures, with everything that that implies for the account. At foreign policy level, Turkey is "playing a ball" on its own. Our ministers are unexistent. Two were our country's diplomatic objectives: firstly, to force neighbours to do what they have to do - to control and limit flows on their coast - and, secondly, to convince the partners that they should not close their borders. We failed in both ways. We had to accept an agreement that we know in advance and almost all of us publicly admit that it is not going to be implemented. We are almost all aware that Europe has decided and Greece has agreed to turn itself into a large storeroom of souls for the next few years. Potami has proposed the introduction of a super-minister with increased responsibilities so that it can make quick decisions without being a charm of one or the other. The Prime Minister refused. He later figured it out. For reasons of selfishness, however, he could not admit it. Thus, he created an instrument that is impossible to function, because in addition to incompetent ones, he is made up of people with huge ideological divergences. The result? Everyone make his head. Ministers are being debated in public, on the channels. Mr. Toskas is in dispute with Mr. Kammenos about the position of the army in the refugee region. Mr Kyritsis, who is responsible for information, publicly states that there will be no closed detention centres for immigrants and that they are outside the government's policy, while Mr Mouszalas says that refugees will go to open hospitality structures and immigrants will be brought to closed detention centres. Mr. Kyritsis publicly states that Amydaleza is closed and does not know what Mr. Mousalas says, who at the same time states that Amydaleza lives and reigns. Mr Mardas becomes a joke and is being mocked by all - including Maximos -, saying that with refugees we will solve both Greece's demographic problem and investment. The Interior Minister declares that Idomen is Dachau, at the same time as the undocumented Minister of Culture states that Idomen is looking for honor for the country. What better, of course, can be expected by a Minister of Culture, who has become culture, only the texts of Savvas Xiros and the left ideology of the "tsouts" ideology?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u26	What are these now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u27	Open the papers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u28	You're mocking us that you're trying to convince the refugees to leave Idomeni and Piraeus, as if you could convince them, you have somewhere to take them! Answer, Minister, from now on: If you convince them today, do you have any place to take them? Leave it, the person responsible for the information! On Monday the available positions in various structures across the country amounted to a thousand eight hundred. The refugees and immigrants in Piraeus are about six thousand, and in Idomen fifteen thousand, and you supposedly throw it into the humanitarian: "But let them get kicked out by force?" Hairy pots! There you want them and that is why you keep them, as if it is possible for a sovereign state to stand the argument 'no' because they do not want to.' And here we are and remember it! It's going to be noon when you get them from there with the MATs and you probably won't even allow the cameras to be present. You've done it before. Democrats of lentils! Yes, well, we will vote for the bill, because otherwise, on Monday, the Turks will tell the Europeans how unreliable Greece is once again and they are not the ones who violate the agreements, but we! I fear, however, that every day that passes with this government in power will also be more devastating for the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are no longer discussing a good or bad government for a better or worse government than the previous ones. We are talking about a nationally dangerous government which must be directly involved, yesterday, by means of democratic procedures. And damage - perhaps even greater than it is in the economy or the management of the refugee - is in institutions such as justice, education, public administration, culture! A Soviet-type regime is built next to us and we ask them to rule! It is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. We cannot remain mere observers. We cannot ask this government to rule. You don't assign a blind man to a race, and then you tell him he saves, and he better tell you whether he was offsaid or not! This government neither wants nor can rule. All he can do now is destroy us completely. Neither this government can, but I fear, nor any government can come from this House, since SYRIZA will necessarily have as its core. All parties, all healthy democratic forces in the country, all citizens who feel responsibility must alleviate with one common aim: that this government should fall, that SYRIZA should be removed from power. All together, we must declare a new anodyte against the so-called democrats who plunge our country! Thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I want the floor. The'sales for our place' is affecting the speaker himself, and he must withdraw it immediately because he sells the place of the European Parliament and this expression used by Mr Fotillas is tragic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u30	Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u31	We call for the terminology to be immediately withdrawn from the terminology of "sold for the place" because it represents only this terminology and must be done immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u32	Mr Fotella, you have been asked for something and you must respond, of course, as you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u33	My colleague can sue me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u34	The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Konstantinos Katsikis, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the refugee issue has now become a very important national issue and I believe that we must deal with it as this. In other words, we need to draw up a common national patriotic line of coexistence and consensus. Instead, I am sorry to see that a hypocritical attitude is being developed by Vice-Presidents, on the basis of the fact that the government is not able to resolve this issue. We started with controversy on whether it had to come to the committee yesterday, with the consent of the Public Administration, Defence and Foreign Affairs, because it did not have the form of urgency. Today that issue that I thought was resolved yesterday, again comes and is being discussed and confronted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u36	Quiet, please, by the honourable Members who are at the bottom of Ethiopia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u37	I can't really understand. In this bill of eighty-nine articles, one of which includes the numbered-fourth in its paragraphs, it stipulates that those who are irregularly, illegally or in his capacity as refugees cross the Greek border will be detained in order to verify, identify and have the right to seek asylum if they are entitled. What does that mean by simple words? That when refugees and immigrants are detained, they do not act uncontrollably. So the first thing that has been done is to control these people, which are present - as the channels say, assisted by Vice-Population MPs - an image of shame, based in the field of Greek society. The same happens in Piraeus. Of course, such a phenomenon must move us to address it immediately so that the situation can be checked and, on the one hand, what else does Article 14 of this draft law, which we are now calling on and voting on? - reduce the appeals. Reduction, why? Because it is a little difficult for the immigrant to come to Greece, knowing that he will be held, with doubtful results for his fate. We hear in this Chamber about the great crime that this government commits to criminal business. Who are they, ladies and gentlemen? Are we causing them, for the officially registered fifty-two thousand refugees, when the previous governments brought to Greece four million legal and illegal immigrants? Would you like me to report to ELSTAT's data? Do you want to hear me refer to those facts, as they were expressed by the officials and party leaders, when they had been ministers and Prime Ministers? On April 30, 2012, the Minister of Public Order, Michael Chrysochoidis said: "It is not possible that a country of 11 million with a million legal immigrants, whom he absorbed in the past fifteen years..." He speaks only about legalists. On January 2, 2014, the then Prime Minister Antonis Samaras told the Austrian newspaper “KURIER”: “The number of unemployed in Greece is as large as that of illegal immigrants. Both may form an explosive mixture that could threaten social cohesion." In other words, immigrants were one million and fifty thousand, while according to ELSTAT, the number of unemployed in the closure of 2013 amounted to one million and fifty thousand Greeks. Do you want to see, by the statistical service itself, how are the national rates of foreigners entering our country, according to the 2001 census? Albanians, Bulgarians, Romanians and Serbs 65.66%. African, Middle East residents, from Cyprus, from Canada 13.8%. Poles, Hungarians, Czechs, 6.76%. And you know, none of them are a refugee. And we come today - with what hypocrisy, honestly - to talk about how much responsibility the Greek Government has, this government, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, when it tries directly - as directly as it can - to manage the refugee with an official registered number of refugees the fifty-two thousand in terms of what the previous governments have done. While, as has been said, some have not been able to study in order to have a position, opinion and place themselves in the articles - I have so far noticed that they are well aware of the contents of the bill and on the principle and on the articles since they have been placed either consensually or in discords and disagreements - but I do not see that they only make proposals, but that they say 'how will you grant a residence permit' - if it is decided that they should take it - '... for six months, for two or three years?', when millions of immigrants today have legal residence permits from the previous governments. And, of course, this effort that is being made today, some people are unable to understand that this national issue, as I said at the outset, must have a common patriotic line. And they forget that this can be an element of weakness for us to move on to our other national issues, something which does not show solidarity and cohesion between us. As far as all this effort and the bodies involved in immigration are concerned, on the part of the government, I should like to congratulate the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Public Order, Janeto Philippaku. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make general points at the moment, saying that the Greek state and its institutions, in cooperation with the international organisations, are already making superhuman efforts and going beyond themselves with solidarity and cooperation that proves to be in response to the crisis, a crisis that Europe has shown was not prepared to face. The refugee issue, if not controlled more effectively, can be turned into a non-manageable phenomenon. The problem is not only Greek, but European and international, with the responsibilities of the European and international system being large, especially now that migration flows are truly unprecedented. Greece does not mean to leave itself under any circumstances and to bear a burden on the European Union as a whole when more and more borders are closed and a humanitarian crisis is taking place. This bill reshapes and upgrades, in accordance with International Law and Union Law, Directive 32/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the Asylum and International Protection Reception Systems. In particular, this draft law aims to address both the exceptional needs presented by the refugee and future needs that will arise in connection with the examination of applications for international protection. It shall also endeavour to streamline and reform the system of international protection, reception, registration and identification of new citizens of third countries, as well as the hosting and hosting system of applicants for international protection, in accordance with international and Union law. In the first part of the draft law, from Articles 1 to 24, reference is made to the establishment and strengthening of the Asylum Service, to the institutional upgrading of the guarantees of independent operation of the Appeals Authority, as well as to amendments to the existing legal framework. The second part of the bill - Articles 25 to 32 - is renamed the General Secretariat of Population and Social Cohesion to the General Secretariat of Migration Policy. A General Secretariat shall be set up and set up. A Welcome address is set up at the General Secretariat. It shall be defined as its structure and competence. A self-employed Directorate for Migration Policy is hereby set up. The structure of organic positions is defined and how these are covered. In the services set up by this draft law, a Department of Information Systems of Immigration and Immigration is set up. A Social Integration Directorate is hereby established in the Directorate-General for Citizenship and Migration Policy. Its objectives, structure, staffing and responsibilities are defined. Articles 33 to 67 shall be transposed into Greek legislation of the European Directive 2013/32 in order to make the procedures for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection common. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to say here - in a minute, Mr President - that Articles 33 to 67 represent about half the amount of material we have been called upon to study and which was well known and could not support the form of urgency, as many people have invoked. One of the many provisions of the bill, therefore, is to speed up the process of examining requests for international protection in order not to exceed fourteen days, an issue on which Greece has accepted strong pressure. The bill also sets out in detail the asylum application and status procedure to be carried out by experts from the countries of the European Union. Local government is supported in order to be able to meet emergency reception and hospitality needs. At this point, we should point out that in this bill and in particular in Article 56, there is no recognition of Turkey or another country as a safe third country. The criteria laid down in the directive that is incorporated into Greek law are simply introduced. These criteria define as safe the country in which, firstly, life and freedom are not threatened by race, religion, nationality, participation in a particular social group or political conviction. Secondly, the principle of non-refoulement is respected in accordance with the Geneva Convention. Thirdly, removal from a country where it is in danger of suffering torture or cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment, as defined in International Law, is prohibited. Fourthly, it is possible to request refugee status and where the applicant is recognised as refugee, to be granted protection in accordance with the Geneva Convention. At the same time, twelve regional asylum offices, ladies and gentlemen, are being created in Attica, Thessaloniki, Thrace, Epirus, Thessaly, Western Greece, Crete, Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Leros and Rhodes. Finally, there is provision for the creation of mobile scales of asylum, which will be sent to areas where refugees live outside the organised areas, such as ports and Idomeni. The Independent Greeks, we are voting in favour of this draft law which will help significantly manage the unprecedented migration flows. Thank you and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u38	Thank you Mr Katsiki, special speaker of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u40	Here you go, Mr. Lightla.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I would like the floor for a solution to the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u43	Here, Mr. Lightla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u44	Although I wonder where, with all the things I wasted, they got hurt, but in any case, I didn't talk about sellers. To reread my sentence again: "All together we must declare a new indulgence against the so-called democracies that break down our country." I did not say'sold'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u45	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u46	Otherwise, many years throughout the government. She has her name today!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and apprentices and three educational sessions from Falan Larissa High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor for twelve minutes. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you have a good day. The time has come to see what Mr Tsipras just agreed on at the summit. Because there has been a confusion in the leaks lately, now there is no room for doubt anymore. Now we can see clearly that the Prime Minister's triumph was unconscious. The Centro Association is - and has always been - in favour of a stable European perspective. Especially does our President-in-Office support the refugee issue every day, that it is our duty to follow the demands of our partners in the European Union. The interest of our country today is exclusively within the European institutions. But being as poor relatives and last-minute tourists is something not only merciful, but also criminal. We should have prepared a national plan to deal with the problem in time, before, that is, we are with the back of the wall and before Turkey is presented as Europe's back doorman. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] This could have prevented the painful current reality. I will give you a characteristic example: in the current legislation the maximum period of time when a request for asylum can be considered will be six months and if the decision of the committees is positive, then Greece will be granted a residence permit for three years. I would like to ask you: What has kept us from speeding up this asylum procedure so long? If the demands were to be made faster, if they hadn't gone through years to make such a decision, at least half of the refugees who are suffering in the streets and fields of that country would have solved some of their problems. It is not, ladies and gentlemen, something new, nor do we need the summit to find out. According to the statistics from the Asylum Service, which are publicly posted and I submit them in the Minutes, asylum seekers every month at this time are about a thousand people. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In 2015 only three thousand six hundred people acquired asylum. I mean, they're approved one out of three. 30% of the applicants are from Syria. This means that only three hundred and four hundred Syrian refugees every month are asylum seekers. Regarding the rest, a 15% is from Pakistan, another 15% from Afghanistan and there is an 8% up to Albania. Given that 99.9% of Syrian applications are approved, the Syrians do not follow the process, and several of them are stacked in Idoine to go to another country in Europe. The reason is obvious: they want to make the asylum request there because the procedures are more rapid and better and, on the other hand, because asylum seekers enjoy more prerogatives in stronger economies than ours. The Citizens' Counsel has ruled for about a year and a half. But tell me: Who of the current and previous government took him into consideration? So let's see what he's literally saying: The problems encountered in the process of recognising refugee status are, first of all, focused on the excessive delay in the adoption of decisions on asylum claims. In addition, the rejection decisions do not contain sufficient and detailed reasons on the basis of the information on the asylum seeker’s file. This, gentlemen, is still posted on the website of the Citizens' Counselor and I present it to you for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, since the beginning of 2015, the Citizens' Counsel invites you to form a comprehensive hosting plan for Syrian citizens who have fled to Greece. In short, the problem has been well known for a long time and no one was interested in resolving it. We wait first for the destruction to fall into our heads and then run to pick up the broken ones, last minute. If we had resolved in time, ladies and gentlemen, these issues, the refugees would be identified more quickly, they would take luck in their hands and they could also freely travel to the European countries of their choice, which means that a large part of the problem would have been solved. It is obvious, therefore, that you either lack technological knowledge or you are possessed by ideologies or both. The bill provides that for humanitarian reasons, residence permits will be granted to those who have applied for asylum for five years and have not received an answer. As we speak, there are still thousands of applications in the Asylum Services even for seven years. That's what the legal authorities saw, that's what the Citizen's Counselor saw. But we officially, as a country, lifted the carpet and put the problem underneath. The bill, however, sets out in detail the asylum application and status procedure to be done with the contribution of experts from the European Union and not just from the EU countries. We expect about two and a half thousand employees in April. European Commission spokesman Mina Andreva said that asylum applications for refugees arriving on the Greek islands will begin to be examined once Greece enters into force the new legal framework for asylum. In other words, Europe has given us a ready-to-date solution, know-how and human resources to solve a problem in which we ourselves have been unable to mitigate it either by incompetence, of course, or by ideology. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you were the ones who were in a frontal conflict with Amydaleza. Now that all of Greece is becoming an amylaceousa, what has changed, dear? We see in the bill that hot spots will now be called Reception and Identification Centres. These will operate on the Aegean islands and will be of a closed type. Incoming immigrants and refugees shall be detained for up to twenty-five days, as referred to in Article 14 of the draft law. And as stated in paragraph 3 of that Article, there will be a restriction of freedom, which will mean banning the exit from the centre and the forced stay in the detention areas. Even today, several of you - not all of you - opposed the idea of closed detention centres. So again, you are forced to apply something that you do not believe, as you have said. So why don't you give your position to people with a technocratic perception of things, who know work and are willing to be brought into line with European requirements? Since you are unable to apply what you have in mind, what are you currently doing to the government? What can be the purpose of your stay except for your personal and individual benefit? We also see in the bill that detainees will now be able to apply for asylum. If examination of the request is not completed within the period of detention, they will receive an asylum seeker's letter and will be promoted in temporary hospitality structures on mainland Greece. To be honest, that does indeed seem reasonable. We can't keep someone who'll probably get asylum, prisoner for life. At the same time, there are procedures for the integration of refugees into the labour market through training programmes. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a de facto confession that Greece is preparing to host a significant number of refugees for a long time. We see it positively. The refugee, as foreseen by comprehensive European conventions, must be properly integrated into society where he lives. The question, however, is: In a damaged economy like ours, with 25% unemployment and deflation, with capital controls and misery on the market, how do you imagine the integration of refugees? Will it work black or a steak? What have you done or do you intend to do for all this? Will you wait for the next summit to give you a ready solution to implement? What is the Greek Government? The professional tourist?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u49	You haven't read the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u50	That's how you think. Another thing that surprises us is that we saw Mr. Tsipras sharing flowers with Mr. Davutoglu. The bill does not expressly describe Turkey as a safe country. In Article 56, however, it is described that a secure third country for a refugee or immigrant is considered to be non-violent States because of race, religion, nationality, participation in a particular social group or political conviction. You think this country is Turkey. Right? Answer me. Do you think Turkey will resolve these issues? Clearly not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u51	How did you figure that out, dear?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u52	We simply have to make 'the wrong eyes' so that we can return to Turkey, as decided at the summit. We have said that one of us is sending Turkey to Europe. Isn't that what we've agreed on or haven't I read yet? According to legal circles, if an immigrant claims that Turkey is not a safe country for itself, then the conditions are created to remain in Greece... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance for a moment, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u53	Oh, no. Finish, because it's determined that the meeting will end at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u54	I won't get second, so I need some time. All colleagues have asked for some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u55	Everyone must respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u56	We respect him time, but you can't just tell me that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u57	I tell everyone. I said that the meeting was decided to end at 6 p.m....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u58	I told you I wouldn't answer for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u59	...and MPs have planned their activities on this basis. Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much. According to legal circles, if an immigrant claims that Turkey is not a safe country for itself, then the conditions are created to remain in Greece waiting for its relocation to another European country. If you do not expressly recognise Turkey as a safe country, then you are content with airplanes within the bill that do not do so. What exactly did Mr Tsipras do with flowers, ladies and gentlemen, alongside Mr Davutoglou? Was he making the European profile for him? For what? What did Greece gain from all this implosion? May I tell you what Turkey has won? It has won internationally to spread the image of the safe and human country. That is what the smart and skilled Mr Davutoglou wanted, and that was achieved through your bilateral contacts. What have you achieved as government for our country? Or did you have something specific in your mind and just make another visit with flowers in your hands? What we had to do on time is three basic things. Firstly, we must solve the problem of the delay in the granting of asylum, as we have been asked for national and international organisations and organisations. Secondly, we must have decent living conditions for asylum seekers, conditions not targeted by international humanitarian organisations. Thirdly and more importantly, we have had an economy that operates even at the lowest growth rates in the euro area. However, we have done nothing of this and now we have to suffer the misery of recession and social disorganisation. In such an environment, we are called upon to integrate refugees. Not only is it difficult, but with today's data it seems impossible. And when so great flows come, not being able to integrate them effectively leads accurately to another painful road.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u61	Please put an end to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u62	I shall conclude, Mr President. If we had a government with responsibility, know-how and European orientation, we would not have reached this point. Unfortunately, the mistakes of recent years will be paid for many generations and even the unfortunate refugees who remain here. We do not believe that the bill is realistically dealing with issues. It adds nothing to the already existing refugee and immigration regime and has serious gaps. We are sure that it will not be possible to implement because the agreement of 19 March 2016 made Turkey a major player in our region. For all these reasons we have voted against this bill in principle. There will certainly be some positive articles on the adaptation of the European directive and we will vote for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u63	So do we. Mr. Muzalas has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is today's sitting? At what stage is the bill urgently tabled today? In a phase that we have fifty thousand refugees and immigrants trapped in our country in conditions that we are trying to make good, but which are still not good, with an Idolome and an Piraeus that we are not happy about at all about, which we say is a violation of rights. But we are trying and we will be delighted to help us find a solution as quickly as possible to this problem. A few days after the signing of the European Union-Turkey Agreement, it is a good agreement. I have to say to you that if any party of what is inside the Greek Parliament of the democratic arch, whether SYRIZA alone or me alone, or Mrs Bakoyannis alone, we would sign between us - I and myself - a better agreement. But unfortunately, for an agreement I am not enough, it is not enough for SYRIZA, it is not enough for the New Democracy alone. We had to sign together with another twenty-seven Member States - Member States of the European Union and Turkey - which the European Union did not show to be a factor in the problem. It was the position of the Greek Government from the beginning. History and geography highlighted it in such a way. We have therefore signed the best agreement in these circumstances. It is a good agreement, because for the first time, after the Yunker effort and the European Commission that failed, a legitimate way is being created for refugees to come to Europe. It's a small road. If the agreement was made with my mirror, I would have put it that it should be 500,000 for those who come to Europe, but, as I said, I could not do it with my mirror, no one can do it with his mirror. However, hold on to the fact that this small road is a brilliant attempt to have a legitimate way of helping refugees. There is a legitimate way out, a message of deterrent for illegal streets. It's something nobody wants in here. No one wants the tension, the growth, the maximisation of illegal roads, those who endanger the lives of refugees and illegal immigrants, and who also create problems after relocation. And that's what we all agree here. It also separates those who actually apply for protection, the one who, in the international terminology of refugees, is called 'asylum seakers', by 'asylum shooters', the asylum consumers. It says that Europe has an obligation to accept the refugee and the refugee to go where Europe is telling it. It respects international procedures, tries to comply with international procedures and the Geneva Convention because of the money given to refugee camps and not directly to Turkey through international organisations. I am not referring to the NGOs, I am referring to the International Organisation for Migration and UNHCR. It improves the legal and economic conditions of refugees in the first host countries: Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan. And finally he hits the smugglers, doesn't tear them apart. The traffickers can never be dissolved in modern history, but it gives them a very big blow. It's a very difficult deal. There's a lot of players. They're unkind of players. It is the European Union. We already have a delay in what he has undertaken to bring us. I'm telling you that one of the two thousand PD employees we need has brought us about two hundred so far. I don't know if anything has changed since yesterday. We have a Turkey whose credibility is judged on a daily basis. We can't say it's going well. We can't say it's going bad. We're skeptical. We wait every day to prove that it will respect its responsibility towards the European Union. We have a state which is in a deep economic crisis, but which is precisely because all of us here want this agreement to be implemented, with the differences that everyone can have, it must do its utmost to enable the agreement to meet as much as possible. This is the one in which the House is meeting today. Please very much. The circumstances are critical. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Every time I can't answer. 'Open Borders', there were no open borders. You don't believe the government. FRONTEX came out and said that our borders are best guarded. NATO came out and said so. Muzalas didn't say so. Mrs Christodoulopoulos didn't say so. Mr. Famelos didn't say so. It is international now. We're unprepared. I have found no places from any party before May to raise a question of refugee flows and all these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u65	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Loverdo, listen to me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Loverdo, you'll talk later. You're on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u68	Then I guess you'll talk. So I say the European Commission's first meeting on the refugee problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u69	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u70	Listen to the Minister. I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u71	He's indiscreet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u72	The European Commission's first meeting on the refugee problem took place in May. By May, the refugee flows in Greece had increased 10%. Since July, hundreds of times. Everyone was caught unprepared. I would also like to tell you that in this huge flow that we faced unprepared camps for refugees, we did not have camps. That's true. No hosting camp had been created. Pre-repeal centres were set up, which seemed useful and, as I have said several times in the House, we have used them in better conditions, in a better way. But there was not all these years or a hosting structure. That's a country's responsibility. I am not trying to give it to this party or the other party. It was like that. It was different. But we need to find a way to walk together, because the deal is urgent. Crisis management: For God's sake, judgments are like this. Katrina made five months to recover. In Germany - I have been to centres in Germany - it is not at all good. The disgrace of Idomeni and the disgrace in the harbor will stop. It'll take his time. He'll need a state organization. It's gonna happen. You don't want MATs or do you want them? You don't want to. You don't want gas in children or do you want to? You don't want to. Therefore, it takes time and organization. It is true that our Government could have done some things earlier or done better. I think this is something that any government, however long it has tried, always comes history and shows it to it. So the circumstances come the bill, and that is why it is urgent. Because the conditions today are not the conditions of 2015. It's not the circumstances three months ago. Although it's urgent, in his main trunk it's from Flevaris posted to Transmission. Some adjustments have been made in relation to the new agreement and the readmission protocol. Very quickly, I will say: He gives staff to deal with the refugee - immigration to the Ministry of the Interior. It creates General Secretariats. It gives a flexibility to create closed and open structures. It institutionalizes the character of hot spots on the islands and borders, which is not new. It's the character that has been the first reception center in Evros for many years. The first reception areas are always closed. The same is done in Lampentuza and Sicily, where Italy has the other centre. It also creates flexible hours. You know that better than I do. You've been in public positions for years. He was running out of time and we didn't have any employees. So there is a need for urgent adaptation. It adapts asylum to European data. This is an obligation for our country. Don't blame the Asylum Service. He's done miracles. The time allocated to asylum today is 47% and ends in three months. Four months Germany wants. A few years ago, a 0.1% asylum was paid. Therefore, when we have a service that improves, we must encourage it. And believe me, the asylum director was there when SYRIZA came. And she's an excellent technocrat, who's accepting and she can help. I have to move on. We're building a process and asylum committees at the border. That's what the situation is. When refugees or illegal people were five hundred, it could be done in Athens. It's got to be at the border. It's got to be in the islands. It must be done at the reception and identification centres. The agreement provides for an extremely short procedure, which is in line with international law and with the principles of the Geneva Convention. I would like to tell you that such procedures in other countries of Europe are done in forty minutes, two and a half days, five days. Here the Asylum Service independently said that the limit between non-violence of conditions and speed are those days written in the bill. And because I think you know people, you understand that no one could influence the Asylum Service either way. A right to work shall be granted to asylum seekers and recognised refugees. It helps to integrate. Prevention is exceptionally necessary, but with transparent procedures and always with the AACC. Local government is given the opportunity to participate in the refugee crisis and to meet its exceptional needs financially. Ways are being introduced and a necessary flexibility is being provided for the conclusion of contracts. I'm talking about simple things like sandwiches or cleanliness. If I want to clean up, I can't make an open competition. I was asked a question: "Why have you not paid for those who give food to the refugees?" and we find that this is a debt that exists months before the SYRIZA government, without being blamed for the previous government. I confess to that thing. It's procedures like that. A number of proposals were put in the committee yesterday, which will be accepted - I will tell you later - to regulate these procedures to the extent that they are accepted. As far as NGOs are concerned, it is international practice for NGOs. There is no crisis - and that now makes no sense - that NGOs should not be used. Which NGOs? Not the ones I made today and four others, let's get some money, but those NGOs that are now recognised for years are working.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u73	But this bill doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u74	A proposal was made yesterday. So a register is being established within the NGO bill so that NGOs are under state control. We have succeeded in agreeing with Europe - and I am ending, ladies and gentlemen - that the state will define where and how the NGOs will operate. Article 22 takes action in the light of public policy and of smaller offences. The competitions will make legislative improvements on the basis of the most advantageous offer, and for NGOs, authorizing provisions and legislative improvements will be available. Finally, I would like to say that there is a game of guilt for our country, that on the basis of the new agreement we will violate human rights. I assure you - and I think that will relieve all of you - that we will strictly respect human rights procedures as defined not in the minds of each of us, but on the basis of International Law and the Geneva Convention. I was in Geneva yesterday. I have had meetings with the Council of Refugees, which today I think has said positive things about our country and about our efforts. UNHCR is involved in this process. The International Organisation for Migration wants to come as a partner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u75	Good! Put a perfect one, Minister. You've promised it three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u76	Okay. He didn't talk to us in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u77	Let him go. He hasn't been placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u78	We will therefore work towards necessity, and the necessity says very simply that this European problem cannot be solved in Greece. We will work with international organisations and with respect for the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Georgiades, don't complain. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u80	So, yes, the bill is urgent. So, yes, you are right, ladies and gentlemen. It's not a solution to the bill. Anyone who claimed that would say nonsense. The bill is a tool that can help solve it. Its use will prove whether it is a proper tool or not. We think it's a proper tool, technical, no hooks, no pregnancies, honestly calling things their name. Its use will judge whether this is the tool we want or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u81	And we thank the Minister responsible. Parliamentary representatives will now be given the floor to some speakers and emblems to move quickly, as we have promised. Mrs Vaki, you have the floor for up to seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today an extremely critical bill, which comes to overthrow a package of negative practices, which, as we all know, led our country to successive convicts from the European Court of Human Rights and from the UN. Until the present government takes over power, Greece was designated as a 'collective' by the international organisations as regards the level of safeguarding the right of asylum. Today, with this bill, the government, with its opinion, is attempting an administrative division. Finally, a framework of administrative safeguarding the Geneva Convention is being established, by setting up genuine committees for examining asylum claims and secondary committees for appeals. At the same time, there are absolutely three fundamental principles of international humanitarian law: access to personalised examination, the principle of non-refoulement and the principle of legal assistance. With this bill, the administration will finally operate in a truly independent context and decisions on asylum applications will be examined exactly as is required by international law, i.e. in reasonable time. But it would be interesting to remember exactly what the previous governments had done since 2003 when the European Union established the framework for the common asylum policy. What did Greece do between 2003 and 2015 when SYRIZA came to the government? It's worth remembering a few things. Who can, for example, forget the tails from dawn to Peter Rally? Who can forget the violence outside the Immigration Police Department? To get a foreign order to examine his request, he had to, literally, fight. Who can forget the tens of thousands of asylum applications pending for years? The whole world knew that any foreigner who wanted to apply for asylum in Greece was punished with the administrative bonds of non-examination. Who can forget the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, with which all humanity learned that the administrative detention in Greece is insulting human dignity? Who can forget the images of people packed in the cages in Orestiad, hanging from the bars, locked in there for months?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u83	That's just where the Greek police officers lived.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u84	Who can forget the pancake in Mytilini? Do you remember the icecream, colleagues? The creepy, however, in this case was not only the images of shame. The worst was that this administrative hatred - because it was hated - was rationally planned by governments, because they believed that the more hell they made people's lives, the more they would prevent them from making asylum claims. Do some even today, especially in Dedicated Opposition, have the same ideas?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u85	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u86	We have heard some of these, unfortunately, recently in the public debate. And I ask you, gentlemen of the Opposition: are you the ones who have ruled over all these years, are you ashamed of that? Are you ashamed of the pain you've caused for so many years? Are you ashamed of the international reproach in which you dragged the country? Ladies and gentlemen, this has not happened. Some more happened. It is worth recalling, for example, that in 2003 the European Union adopted a directive on minimum conditions for the reception of asylum seekers in the Member States. That is where all the countries were forced to create accommodation structures and to make good use of important funds from the European Fund for Refugees. What did the Greek governments do by 2015? Quite simply, they have been mocking Europe for years and have not created a single hosting structure. Remember, for example, the previous government's gruesome effort to throw refugees out and even to sell the plot of the unique hospitality centre in Lavrio. Remember all this, it's worth it. Ladies and gentlemen, in these few months this shame has ceased. The image of the country has changed internationally. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees now supports our efforts and the colleges belong to your terrible past. At the same time, we welcomed a huge wave of refugees, desperate people, massively displaced from the war, with the greatest possible dignity, with the greatest possible solidarity, with the greatest possible respect for human rights. Here again, Community legislation has provided for mechanisms for such circumstances since 2001. But the governments of PASOK and of New Democracy have for years fooled the institutions without making any administrative preparations for such circumstances. Today all this changes. Open hospitality structures are being created, but also appropriate pre-regulatory structures, which are obviously not prisons. In these structures, people who are not entitled to protection are not closed for months in cages. The departure, even if it does not satisfy us, will now take place in a context of respect for human dignity. The country is therefore on another administrative path in relation to the right to asylum. And this sincere effort is recognised by the international institutions, but mainly recognised by the Greek society. A society that has widened its arms to refugees and has shut the door to you who, with the administrative reproach you have caused, stigmatized the country forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u87	We thank you for your respect for time. Until Mrs Bakoyannis comes to Vima, Mr Mousala, announce everything you have on the amendments. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, I am introducing the legislative improvements and I would like them to be given in the meantime to the representatives of the parties so that they can see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u89	Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to sanctify in here, you can't. Where, when I was listening to Mr Muzala, I said that we would talk at another level, SYRIZA's dear colleague came out and straightened us out. Because it was very interesting that while reading an attack text against the New Democracy, the bill itself had not read it. And so I heard about tens of thousands of applications submitted in the New Democracy. My colleague, your bill tells you about seven and a half thousand. And we disagree on these seven and a half thousand that you will give. It is good to read in the House at times, not only the texts written by him when he is at Step but also the bills. I now come to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, refugee is a huge European problem. Yes, it will test the structures of Europe itself, cohesion and European principles and values. Yes, New Democracy from the very first moment through its Chief, Mrs Mitsotakis, came out and said clearly: "We will support our country in Europe with all the powers we have." And that is why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the New Democracy today will vote for the Europe Agreement. I agree with Mr. Muzala. This is not the best deal possible, but because I have negotiated myself, I know very well that it is not easy to impose your opinions. So Turkey is rightly involved, we have rightly signed up to Turkey, and we will, of course, try to implement the European agreement. So this is the beginning. And then there comes a bill, which if the European agreement were to vote on it, we would vote on the bill and the case would be over. So the problem is, the government wants to keep two watermelons on a armpits. It must cover the fifty-three, who have a different view of the European agreement, which Mr Muzalas said - which is self-evident, namely, that there are refugees and immigrants, a different thing from the migrant - and they continue to deny it heroically. Come on, now that the majority is needed. And what about it? So we're bringing in a bill, which is amazing. Because this bill has three axes: one of the agreements which I told you before we voted on it, one of the descriptions of the functions of the centres. That is where I told Mr Muzala yesterday that it is impossible for us to vote on it unless Mr Muzalas comes today and brings about the final change. Why? Because in order for the centres, ladies and gentlemen, we have to be clear and we have to say things by their name. He said it's cowardly before Mr. Muzalas, but let me say it again, so you can understand it. You will not take one with the roses of Mr. Tsipras and you will tell him "love and go back to Turkey because I do not give you asylum". It can't be done. Because, as the majority rapporteur has proudly announced, we have, he says, people who return to open structures. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, do you think that the people who went through this adventure and went through the Aegean and came to Greece are fools? So you're gonna have him in an open structure, and at the same time you're gonna tell him you're going back to Turkey and stay inside the open structure? But you're kidding? Are you kidding yourself? So why don't you say that those who are under way - I don't want it, but you have to - will be in closed structures, because if they are not in closed structures, they will not end up back in Turkey. And we agreed that Greece could not have more than fifty thousand. So they'll have to be in closed structures. So stop celebrating and mocking yourself and seeing the reality as it is. So you have to decide and tell them. Because by boycotting every effort in the right direction, taking you a year and a half to understand the seriousness of the matter, you have a huge problem, ladies and gentlemen. We have therefore said from the outset that there is a difference between refugees and immigrants. And there what we have to tell you is that the self-evident thing you did not do. We come today and we cry. We don't like Idomen. If we exclude some colleagues who are obviously followers of Mr Baltas and who are proud of Idomeni, most of you, I imagine, are not proud of Idomeni. But why did we get to Idomeni? Why did we get to Piraeus? But the people when they came were four hundred, four hundred, fifty, six hundred. Was it so hard to separate the Afghans from the Syrians from their arrival and put them in one place and another? So he needed a great administrative capacity for the self-evident? And then we're all out there. Why are you telling you that they'll be stabbed in a little while? Yesterday in Chios, a serious government organisation, the "Doctors Without Borders", left because 30,000 euros of logistical infrastructure was destroyed by these people. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing. I wanted to say things, but I'm going to tell you one thing, which I said yesterday and I want to say it again. Greece has spent too many difficult times and there is a great deal of sensitivity in the world. The way you are dealing with creates huge questions. No million-dollar parties will be allowed on the back of the refugees from New Democracy. I'm telling you quite clearly. The way in which it is written today in the bill - 76 is a top article - says that what the Ministry of National Defence did - so passion by the ANELs, I want you to notice it, a great passion by the ANELs! - so far, direct assignments, things, miracles and so forth, everything is legal, but what we're going to do from now on? He said Mr. Muzalas: I can't make a competition... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, all right, I understand the time, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u91	And you as an expert will set a good example. No one else can give it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u92	No, no good examples. You found a man to set a good example! I'm on it. He said Mr Muzalas before: 'I can't make a tender for cleaning'. We used to go to the ministries for cleaning, but that's a new concept. The substance of the case is that I understand that there are emergencies and I will not deny that. From there, however, until the expenditure is not published, as the bill says, there is a huge difference, ladies and gentlemen. So I say to you that within your need to act out of hand, you will 'eat' on the head and a decision of the European Union about mismanagement of refugees' funds. So I've been beating you the alarm bell from today. We are, of course, not going to vote on all this, but because you have the sole responsibility for how to move this story, change it in time. For people, whom I honour otherwise - I said yesterday and in comfort, I repeat this today - and Mr Musala and Mr Vitsa will get into trouble very badly. And they will get into trouble very badly, because no one will alibily accept the refugee to play with millions of loots, which the Greek people are entitled to know what happened and where they went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u93	Mr Amyras has the floor, the Parliamentary Representative of the River, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, I would like to speak for one minute on staff for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u95	Staff? What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u96	Because he mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u97	Because he mentioned your name?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u98	No, I mean, an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u99	Alas, this is the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u100	There's nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u101	He accused her, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u102	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, because the previous speaker has told me that I have not read the bill, I have read it very personally, Madam President. I guess you didn't notice anything. You corrected me for saying that it was tens of thousands, while it was seven and a half thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u104	It is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u105	I would remind you, however, from the explanatory statement that in total it was eighteen thousand five hundred cases. Of these, the seven thousand eight hundred concerned refugees, who had been subjected 1-1-2001 to February 2011.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u106	So?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u107	But the whole is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u108	But the total was eighteen thousand five hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u109	Okay, we're in touch.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u110	But it must have hurt you more. However, from these seven thousand eight hundred, only 0.1% had been examined, but that's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u112	What, do you have personal now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, the numbers are numbers. We used to say, in elementary school, that tens of thousands with seven and a half have a slight difference. In any case, however, it is essential. There aren't tens of thousands of applications. Now that you've read it, I guess you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u114	I told you the exact number.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u115	You understood that and this figure is the result of Mrs Stavroupoulou, to which your Minister, who was very clear, referred. It is good in Parliament that I know that it is not SYRIZA's dress to take care of them a little, because we pay them expensively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u116	On the contrary, it's the SYRIZA's form of numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u117	All right, well, the ping-Pong is getting started, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to turn to Mr Musala - whom I do not see in the Chamber, but will Mr Flavouraris take it to him - and say to him: 'Mr Minister, you should be more careful in the terminology you are using. Your suffering has not become a lesson to you, Mr. Muzala. The virtual drowning attempted by Mr. Kammenos to you - politically speaking - left you nothing?" You have twice used the term "illegal immigrants" and I have not seen either of the 50 three of SYRIZA or the other dissatisfied members of SYRIZA correct you, Minister. The official term, as it stands in international conventions, is 'immigrants without papers'. I am surprised that the responsible minister, the country's immigration and refugee policy, does not know how to use the right terminology. That's how he did it with Skopje that he called it Macedonia, right now. Let's go down. In my opinion, the refugee issue, Mr President-in-Office, has been badly messed up. You've messed up, made them worse and the most pessimistic one would expect. Why? Because as the special speaker of the majority said quite rightly and eloquently - I say, say, what he said - 'we have uploaded the refugee all this time and made it an international issue'. That's the problem. That you went to do a refugee policy, but you didn't get out. Because you can't open the border in the wilderness of your allies. That's what we're paying for at some point. You cannot also say that I am going to make an open-ended policy, such as Mrs Christodoulopoulos, apparently told the Central Committee of SYRIZA, when you have not prepared either administratively or organisationally or healthly for what is coming. And I would like to ask Mr Mouszala this: Please tell me, yesterday or not we had the first case of meningitis in a child in Greek? Give us some information about this. Do we have a case of meningitis or not in the Greek? We therefore say that your policy on refugee is costing a great deal. It's true. Call the C.E.D. and he'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u119	Don't say it fourth time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u120	It's true, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u121	Even if it is true, don't say it fifth time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u122	Why? Are we afraid of the truth? Why, Mr. Voutsi? Are we afraid to say things by their name?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u123	Go to CEDEFOP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u124	The costs are high in the refugee policy that you have or do not have, first of all, the cost of the thousands of two hundred people who have drowned in the Aegean Sea in the past year - many children among them. The cost is that we have been closed down by almost all our neighbours. The cost is that we have NATO to smuggle into the Aegean Sea and explain to us what NATO is doing. You yourself say that it cannot exercise a policy of deterrence. So why did we bring NATO and even to the west of the Greek islands and not to the east? Finally, costs seem in every way in the muds of Idomen, in this Dahau, as a minister has rightly said, and not at the well-known and well-known point that another colleague of yours called Idomen, as well as Piraeus. The tourist season opens, and you did not have the basic care to do so to prevent images, but above all the bad situation, the health, the lives of thousands of people in Piraeus, the largest port in the country. Now let's go about this draft law and tell you two things. First of all, it's a little bit small, despite the fact that there was a v. Date of birth: 3907/2011. We have the framework for the organisation and maintenance of hosting structures for refugees and asylum seekers, as well as for the operation of first-host services. Instead, what do we have? We have NGOs like beans growing everywhere, on the border, on the islands, not knowing who these NGOs are. There are, of course, the very good ones, there are what we know and do a job, such as "Doctors Without Borders", "Doctors of the World", "Smile of the Child", but there are too many of them, whose name we cannot even pronounce. They are set up in one day, based on various European cities, who knows where and come uncontrolled, without even joining a small NGOs, within Greece, to make their own games. We have seen and seen what happened with the refugee misinformation in Idomen, in relation to Skopje, that you are going to find the passages. These do not honor a country that cannot fundamentally secure either its borders or anything. Now let's go see this: Ask the refugees if they feel the dignity that SYRIZA - supposedly - cut. Go and ask them! In any case, this bill shows the government's anxiety to build a more public one. It builds general secretariats, manages them by way of derogation from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure by posting, without even consulting the Boards of Directors. Listen now! Renames the General Secretariat of Population and Social Cohesion to the General Secretariat of Migration Policy. Well, that's all right. But what do you want with the other secretariat, the General Secretariat, within the same Ministry with an address? Why don't you add it to the original Secretariat-General? Would you like another secretary-general to appoint? How many relatives do you have now? And Karanikas and the rapper etc.- Oh, my God! Aren't these relatives finished?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u125	Aren't you bored anymore?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u126	We have another general secretariat! Note: A new Special Secretariat with new posts for managing the resources of a Fund, the Asylum Fund, is set up in the Ministry of Economy. Why a new Secretariat? Why don't you join the Ministry of Finance services? The answer I think is spontaneous. Because you obviously also want within this sensitive issue to make people comfortable, or at least that's my assessment. Let's move on. Transparency is a big issue of this draft law. There is a shortcut of deadlines. Let's take it. To accept that things need to be done quickly, despite the fact that you know a year and you keep track of the situation. Why, for example, do these containers, for example, not go up to 'Greekness'? For what? Explain to me. Are there going to be overruns of costs? Did the country step on it, like the sewed settlements, ordered by Mr. Spirtzis at more than twice the market price? These are out. In any case, if I am mistaken about that, please, please clarify this: with what? With a limo, do they carry the sewage settlements? A million euros for the transport of containers? There's one more thing. The curiosity of your legislation is shocking. You're talking about vulnerability in Article 47. What is vulnerability? Is that a new term? Are you talking about vulnerable? We're going to something more substantial. Note now: Authorization. In Article 7(8), we read that by Ministerial Decision the conditions will be laid down for the placing of foreign and stateless persons under temporary protection. With the same ministerial decision - take care, ladies and gentlemen! - the implementation of the presidential decrees, which will also be adopted by a delegated act. The delegation of power! Is that a good legality? I don't think so. It does not honor neither Parliament nor the Members of this House. I would also like to add something that our rapporteur, Mr Fotilila, has said. What about European funds? Have we or have we not absorbed even one euro? Tell us how much money, which fund, and by what process. And if not, we haven't absorbed while they're sitting on the money, who's responsible for it? Who's gonna answer? I would also like to add something else: when you decide to make a foreign policy in the absence of your allies, you will find them in front of you. When you are trying to do only in words a refugee support policy and leave uncontrolled NGOs and anyone who perpetrates in your country and regulates things to some extent, then you are accountable. You have to give answers. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that Mr Muszalas is not here. I'd like to tell him he's not well informed. He said that until March, no party - he said - had any refugee concerns. Where did he see that? And we sent letters and questions to the Parliamentary Control, but obviously Mr Muzalas was busy with other things. I am in passing to tell us why you have waited a year to finally deal with the creation of an elementary mechanism within the refugee policy state machine? Is it true or not that all these months as regards the competence of the Ministry of Migration Policy had 12 or 15 employees? That he didn't have any resources? That he didn't have responsibilities? And you are now coming to incorporate, adapt the European directive on refugees and asylum to Greek legislation and "treno" from behind what you have to think about. All you need to do is build a new public structure, with a thousand five hundred hires, which has contracts, which do not go through the normal procedure. And so you solved the problem. Well, we think you've completely failed the refugee. You are accountable to both Greeks and migrants and refugees and Europeans and at some point you must at last assume your responsibilities. Perhaps a good move would be to decide that you need another policy, in consultation, of course, with the Council of Political Heads and the other parliamentary parties. Ladies and gentlemen, we will monitor developments. We won't leave it that way, and we expect some answers from Mr. Muzala. I hope Mr. Flambury will take it to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u127	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, since they participated in the '1974-Restoration of Democracy' training programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Painters. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Hadjisavvas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u128	Let me start with something the Minister said, that he did not say any party about increasing migration flows and refugees before May. Mr. Flavourris is here, of course, not Mr. Muzalas. Have you seen what happens when the Golden Dawn talks and you're leaving outside? We'd have avoided that. You would have heard us about both the numbers and the hot spots and the problems with the NGOs and we would not have reached this point now. Well, now, for the New Democracy, I'm sick of every bill saying the same thing. I hear some racing questions from the style: "But is this the Left? Is that what the Left will do?" Yeah, that's what the Left does. What were you expecting, Mr. Kikilia? Were you expecting more? This is Left. In the papers, the international speeches and speeches of SYRIZA and Prime Minister are the 'illegal immigrant', i.e. 'illegal immigrant'. Illegal? Illegal immigrant? You know, this term refers to how I migrate. It's not about the person. So you're gonna have to get over this, get rid of it. Because some problems are being created. For example, the bill now says here: "Organization and operation of the Asylum Service for benefits, protection, free legal protection, medical care, etc. Refugees’. No immigrant? Did this separation take place? So, in some hospitality centres, which have been separated from refugees and immigrants, these benefits will only be for refugees? So, about 30% of Syrians? Wouldn't it be for the others? What if someone proposed to you there, even after "the refugees", add a "and Greeks"? What kind of reactions would there be, anyway? I'm sure what the reactions would be. So they cut off portions in blocks of Greeks, the most deprived, the disabled and the unpopular, but also foreigners who had come under the former regime and had not been classified as refugees. And it could not work this way to give young foreigners the name'refugees' and to better honour your ridiculous humanism. He considers that the Greek state's obligation to provide him with free medical care, shelter, light, internet, food, when he does not have the data, is understood not by the unemployed Greeks, but by the Greeks who work. I also heard SYRIZA say that they did not bring illegal immigrants to Greece. Okay, you didn't make any tourist agencies, bring illegal immigrants, but some tourist invitations you sent them by announcements and before you became government. Now, we've come to foolishness. I see them there in Kilkis. They're fighting who's getting licenses for cantins to go set up there in the camps. Now we have received an e-mail, that tourist agencies are fighting with the CBC for Article 80 that will enable them to transfer them. These are ridiculous, but unfortunately we cannot laugh, because the situation is very sad. All this was created, because the Arab Spring, which all the progressive welcomes supposedly, led to this flow of Muslim settlers to Europe and especially to Greece. I say "courts" because they are no longer flows. They come and stay here. They settle here. They're staying here, anyway. It is interesting to see that in Egypt and Libya, which achieved about the coup d'état of the Muslim Brothers and the Arab Spring, we had no such problems. In Syria, however, allies' game is broken. They couldn't throw Assad away, so they went to second-class, we'd say. This created great flows of migrants. Refugees from Syria eventually appeared from Afghanistan, from Iraq, Pakistan, from seventy more countries, stuck with them and built such a convenient theatrical work, capitalist direction of a hundred percent, called "refugee streams and proudly TV-covered and insolently paid philanthropists". It is now clear that there are too many people who are in favour of non-governmental organisations, who are members or owners of non-governmental organisations and are preparing an endless job for their blocs. The common secret is that non-governmental organizations in Greece are developing the finite political appointment to civil servants. We now appoint free professionals, that is to say we make free professionals, who are financed exclusively by the public sector, perhaps not by Greece, but by international bodies, by the European Union. Now, how it is compatible with the war traders of the European Union and of America to give money to non-governmental organisations, to manage migratory flows that they have created with their bombs, only with a finding of complication, guilt or simply methodization and redemption of left consciences, with good food, may be explained. Why are migration flows choosing to pass by Greece, to risk their children at sea, when there are land borders, we have said so a hundred times. We have the problem now with the unaccompanied. I read that in Sweden a thousand children are looking to find families and some are subsidised to host them. But it would be weird if we didn't know who we're dealing with. To talk about SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. But all the other parties, which you voted on some laws before, have created a very hospitable environment by laws, such as nationality to children who will necessarily keep their parents in mosques. With statements, now on the assimilation of Muslim settlers and the integration of their children into schools, we see this going on. I mean, there was a way around. Also, we see that all the Left’s sensitivity to atheism is exhausted only for Christians. For Muslims, I see you want to have rights, to be able to function. We must not forget that the New Democracy had proposed camps for illegal immigrants hosting centres, with the model of Paradesti, Corinth, Amygdaleza, etc. Let me just say a few words on the Iwarded issue. Because we hear them on television, but they're giving 20 euros there to create some situations. You know, because they're completely useless, these journalists, except that they're sticking some anti-Greek badges, they can't get you to reality. There was an attack on Eduned to the cops three, four days ago. Do you know why the attack took place? He had information from the police that there was someone moving uprisings. As soon as they went to pick up this guy, that woman, they attacked two hundred, three hundred people in a patrol car. They took the woman and the cameras stopped there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end in ten seconds, Mr President. You know what happened next? That woman went back with another five hundred to get her purse, who had forgotten in the car. What was in that white lady's purse that was moving these situations? All these laws, which forbid reaction, opposition have also been passed by the New Democracy. We must not forget that. We'll have to see what the cops say there, and not to mention whether it's me at the POSY conferences, the Nazi MP. They had told them the problems that exist. One hundred and fifty police officers within ten thousand, and to accept orders to intervene, they cannot intervene. We'll have worse things. The inhabitants will go to the village tomorrow to close the roads to the village. You know that? They'll be enclosed. They'll shut the streets so they won't get in. They can't stand it anymore. They're forty, fifty people. She's fine. They've been taken 50, 100 people, they've been bathed. But then a thousand, a thousand five hundred. They can't manage this thing. I call on the world to react by every legal means to the Islamic settlement. Greek friendly and, above all, Christian tolerance to women and children, fundamentalist Islam will not show them to our own children. Let them tell us nationalists. Let's call us graphic Christians. Let's be told fascist. Let them say that from fascism and nationalism our society is at risk. But we all know very well that our society and nation are always at risk only from cowards and beards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Loverdos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u130	Seven to twelve minutes, Mr President. I guess seven to ten. Ladies and gentlemen, I was wrong to hear Mr Muzala say in this Chamber in his speech that opposition parties since March began to criticise the government for increasing the flow and for the black hole opened by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in the refugee - immigration when he took over the country's rule. I was wrong in lying because I forgot today that today is April 1st, that today is your celebration, gentlemen of the government. And to be noble, despite all our criticism: Happy birthday! Live us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u131	Let's buy you a drink.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u132	Mr Minister of State, since you happen to be here and for a few minutes, please tell me how much money you have to implement the existing refugee-migrant legislation or the new one, which this House will be voting on in a few hours' time? What's your budget? We learned from Mr Stournara that last year, ladies and gentlemen, the cost for the Hellenic Republic of managing the refugee - immigration, as you became, was 0.4% of the Gross Domestic Product, that is, seven hundred million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, seventy-five million euros is the Public Investment Programme as a whole. Seven hundred million euros has cost you last year to manage this problem? Minister, are you able to clarify this to us? Because if you are not able, it makes no sense to continue the process without the Deputy Minister. Are you in a position to answer me now? How much does this draft law cost? The General Accounting Office has a report and can't count it. Mr President, I would ask the Minister responsible to come. We're meeting on his own, and it's not. Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u133	Please let the Minister know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u134	I will not continue, Mr President. The Chamber needs the Minister in charge. Here is a point which we need to clarify. Colleagues, why do I insist? Why in November, when with an exemplary opposition, we asked him to come and come, we asked him: 'How much does it do, Minister, that?' And he said to us: 'I don't know'. Do you remember them? The Bank of Greece tells us about seven hundred and we talk to a people with difficulties and sometimes insuperable. So, in what is a big problem, how much money will the Hellenic Republic contribute to its structure and what will we get from the European Union? I am not talking about non-governmental organisations, I am referring to the Hellenic Republic. I, Mr President, do not know if you measure the time, but I really ask a question that I demand, and in any case, if the Minister does not respect me, to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Flambury will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u136	Will you answer that, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u137	Yeah, I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u138	Please, if the President so permits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Loverdos, you should know that almost all of the budget, which refers to this bill, that is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u140	How much is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u141	One hundred and forty-five million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u142	One hundred and twenty said yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u143	One hundred and thirteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u144	And all the responsibilities that are needed, so that the issue of refugee flows and the restoration of justice and all the related problems relating to the refugee issue can really be tackled in a relative or full manner, are to the managing authority that has been set up and is trying to change the content that existed in 2014 in relation to the six hundred million, which are foreseen by Europe, and to integrate them into the needs that are now in existence. Because, first of all, the needs associated with the transport, secondly, of food, thirdly, with the formation of Open Host Centers, fourthly with hot spots and everything related to them, are covered by the funds...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u145	What funds?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u146	I'm telling you there's a delay, because, as you know, there's a terriblely large bureaucratic operation until they get...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u147	Does it take 15 months for a managing authority?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u148	That's right, I've lived it. The managing authority...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u149	You dismantled the Public Order and we've been waiting for 15 months!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u150	You're welcome, Mr. Kikilia. You're not leaving the rebound ball today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u151	I'll finish and you'll answer that. The managing authority has been organised since August 2015. We've got enough money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u152	When it was formed, not when it was institutionalized, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u153	For example, the ships that were rented...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u154	You set it up in December.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u155	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u156	I'll go on. So I say that once there has been a change in the content of the actions that existed in the 700 million for 2015, which existed before 2014, we will be able to make almost all the money included in this budget, which at the moment I cannot say how much it is, we will be able to get it from the European funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u157	I will tell you, Minister: not one euro!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u158	I'll tell you when you have the floor, Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u159	The managing authority is in the air!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loverdo, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u161	Fifteen months not a single euro!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u162	What are you telling us? Have you made a proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u163	For 15 months or one euro, the managing authority. And the Greek taxpayer pays for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u164	Not dialogue like that. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Kikilia, you don't have the floor. Go on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u165	I can bring you all the list of funds that have been used up by the bank by the afternoon and by the funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u166	I'll be right here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u167	But there are also what we expect, for example, food-related things, which the European Union covers, namely the supply of refugees. He's covering. We have submitted the funds through the managing authority. As you know, you have to submit the funds first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u168	Minister, you don't have the managing authority. Now you're institutionalizing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u169	Wait till you hear it. How come we don't have her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Kikilia, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u171	Minister, you have no management authority. Don't fool in here! What have you submitted? You don't have one now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u172	Who's laughing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u173	There's no, you don't have a managing authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Kikilia, you don't have the floor! Are you finished, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u175	There was a management authority, which we are changing now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u176	You bring her now, 15 months later. Don't say any more than others!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Kikilia, you don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u178	As you know, the managing authority was formed since August 2015. Now the proposal made in this draft law is the managing authority to pass through the Ministry of the Interior, where it was subject to the Ministry of Economy and Development, so that the Deputy Minister, who is responsible for European funds, can be more easily involved - because he knows all the procedures - submit all the requests and get the money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u179	You bring here a bill after 15 months...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u180	That's what's happened. It's not right that it didn't exist. There was a management authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u181	Don't expose the man. Don't say any more than others!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u182	But the gentleman knows...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u183	Minister, don't have a dialogue with Mr. Kikilia!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u184	From the Ministry of Interior to the Defence, from the Defense to the Interior, from the Interior to the Development! What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u185	You're not talking about a management authority. The managing authority existed and was at the Ministry of the Interior and operated. You can't talk like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u186	Uh, well, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loverdo, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u188	What do you know, if you are not cheating, is the answer. If they were to ask me, Mr Minister of State, when I was Minister, how much it does what is being introduced into the House, I would say: 'So much money from the budget is making so much money from the budget, so much from Union funds'. I'd be clear. You took too many minutes to tell us something, which I didn't understand. In any case, however, what you said I would say is that you will bring a full list this afternoon. That's what's got to do with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u189	Not that you didn't understand. You don't agree. You don't understand any more, you don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u190	I don't understand. And what we need - and I tell you sincerely now - is the list you promise. That's clear, because we'll have a table so we can know what the National Representation is voting for. We are not in detail, ladies and gentlemen. The essence of the issues is there, and indeed on an issue about twenty days ago - perhaps a little more - the Ministry of National Defence brought provisions for non-contests...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u191	By way of derogation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u192	...by way of derogation of each existing provision, on the supplies of hot spots. We told him Mr. Vitsa - who just came - 'Why, Minister, do you accept that responsibility? There are the rough competitions.' I also gave him an article, making a consistent opposition. He said no to me and stressed that his regulation aims to strengthen locality. Three members of the SYRIZA yesterday put a question to Mr Kammenos, saying that he is violating locality. Ladies and gentlemen, they're making fun of us straight, though! They're making fun of us! And they had the nerve to talk about opacity in the past few days. They are mocking us straight and strengthening the opacity institutions under Article 74(1) of this draft law, which, once again, are, by way of derogation and by way of derogation, etc. And since I referred to articles, see a little of Article 7(2) and 17, because we have the possibility of amending law - children, law! - by a presidential decree! What's the gentleman back and the lady? One to be a lawyer, he will tell you: Law is not amended by decree! If you had a lawyer, he would have told you. Let me close...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u193	Finish, please, it's 13.30.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, at three minutes we have had a debate necessary for this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u195	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u196	May I add, since I saw Mrs Canelle, the debate we had the day before yesterday on fuel in the Armed Forces, where she told us that we had no representative and I brought the FEK we had? He took advantage of the ignorance we had so many Members here on a practical subject and was lying! We had a representative and he was lying! We had a representative! We don't have a chance for these last two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u197	Since 2008, we haven't!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u198	Good - we fill up - if we don't have for these two months, which I don't know, will you change that, will you get the device for supplying fuel back? You've changed the law of twenty-one years to bring in an opaque procedure. That's what you're like! Only in words have you convinced the world and fooled him, but the politician is judged by his actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u199	Put it down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u200	It's his actions, it's not his words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u201	Put it down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u202	And now, because I have heard a spokesman from SYRIZA, Mrs Vaki, talking about shame, about inhumane behaviours of previous governments, ladies and gentlemen, this issue, the issue of humanity, does not interest the government to raise it. They are the icons of Idomeni, the images of people who become the victims of extortion and exploitation throughout Greece, in Viktoria Square here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Loverdo, put a perfect one, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u204	Now I'm just finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u205	We take your obligation into account...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u206	They are images that do not serve you to recall them in our minds in aggressive words of this level. Humanist is not the one making an effort and there is also some loss or difficulty due to the timing and difficulty of the problem. Does he have to be accused of a lack of humanity? There are accidents in the management of things. Is the humanist, however, who to cover the ideas of the cafeteria and to make my left-hand arguments into the cafeteria, lets the world drown by hundreds? Do you have humanism? Look at the situation in the Aegean, to see if you have humanism. We've realised...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Loverdo, please put a perfect one! Respect the next speakers who also have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u208	After the President confines me to a debate by definition limited, he finds the courage to make me, like yesterday, time-consuming suggestions today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u209	Don't I have the right to do this? Are there any patrons and patrons?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u210	It is a debate which, Mr President, has taken place with a lack of speech and is of a limited nature and you want me not to speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u211	What are the next speakers to do? To listen to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u212	Mr Muzala - I beg him because he calls - are you bringing me the ministerial decisions that you had, those two, three regulations, which you told us yesterday? You said to us 'unfortunately'. We told you that as a matter of urgency without some of the dozens of regulatory acts ready to go is a lie, it is a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Loverdo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u214	You said you had some ready. Why don't you give them to us? In any case, so as not to conflict with the Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Loverdo! Please! Respect both the Bureau and yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u216	I respect him very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u217	If you respect him, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u218	You do not respect yourself and individually and collectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u219	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u220	Sure. And as long as you insist, I'll be serious more and more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u221	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u222	I shall therefore be closing down, ladies and gentlemen, with one phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u223	Do you ignore the Bureau in this way? What right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u224	We have a country that has no government and administration that does not have political supervision. Country without government and administration without political supervision so much cannot deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u226	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u227	I understand that for communication reasons there is a process that says: "I start from my home, I have five things that I must definitely say. They are valid, they do not matter.’ To be what? That is the main issue. Secondly, Mr. Loverdos, we must be clean. Do you dare talk about drowning in the Aegean? You were a government when Pharmacy took place. You dare...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u228	The report says so. They have multiplyed over your days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u229	Do you dare?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u230	Sure. No more lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u231	You dare the battle that the Port gives every day and saves thousands of people to bring her here as a battle...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u232	Enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Loverdo, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u234	He's addressing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u235	I am addressing you not for the inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u236	Your nose has grown!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u237	But now we're going to the third topic of tracking. You're amazing, because you're legal too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u238	Tell me about locating Mr. Sevastakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u239	You were here to tell me what you said: "Don't make any rough competitions" etc. And I told you: 'I'm holding it on the impossible case.' Can you tell me one case where there was no competition? No, you can't tell me why there were competitions everywhere. Secondly, when there is a competition, do you know that there is a Competition Committee? You know that. If, then, I define such a procedure, will the Competition Committee not come to tell me 'block them' or 'block them'? You know the order was to be tracked down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u240	What competition happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u241	What competition happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u242	Let's get the contests here. Why didn't you bring them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u243	Of course we can get them. Most of them have been posted. What are you talking about? Get into "Goodness" to see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u244	For how long, Minister? Ten minutes had disappeared.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Cryazides, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u246	Where did you see these? You bring it from here and one from there, there have been contests, the other has disappeared or someone has lost the contest. How was it directly awarded - which I could do to help tracking - and, at the same time, to have a competition? I must tell you that in this particular case, which is the case with the Ioanninas, to speak in clear words, I said - and indeed it is an order - that this competition will take place for a month, because the preparation of the Ioannina professionals was not the right one. And they know it themselves. I also spoke to the President of the Chamber, and I also spoke to the mayor, and I spoke to Mr. Kahrimanis, so that he could...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u247	The evidence we have contradicts what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u248	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u249	I am referring to the evidence, Mr President. I want the floor as soon as the Minister finishes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u250	You'll tell them and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u251	You don't have the floor, Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u252	Won't I say it? What do you think? For the world's finances? Are you really telling me? For public finances, won't I say? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u253	When you take the floor, you'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u254	Did I say don't tell them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u255	The President says not to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u256	Not only do you say it, but also bring it, because there is a great deal of effort to serve two things: food and locality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u257	Let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u258	We don't always make it. We're giving specific orders. But this cannot be made an argument in relation to the law itself. Don't go crazy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I beg your pardon very much, but I would like the floor, because there is a matter here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u261	What procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u262	What procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Kikilia, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u264	In the process of informing the Greek people about what the Minister says about the competitions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u265	Really?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u266	Very serious! If you'd like, you'd better puff me up and don't let me tell you the evidence that I've got.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u267	Does this procedure apply to Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u268	If you think they shouldn't listen to the evidence I have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u269	Wait a minute, Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u270	Because here there is a competition that came out for one day, from 10 March to 11 March 2016, when the guarantee letter from the bank needs three days to come out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u271	All right, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u272	So don't make fun of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u273	Who are you addressing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u274	I say to you, sir, that there is in my hands a competition that has come out for a day, between 10 and 11 March, when the bank's guarantee letter takes three days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u275	Mr. Kikilia, what are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u276	This, Minister, is not called a competition, it's called something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u278	I'll testify for the evidence so you can see it yourself. Don't take responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u279	You can testify to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u280	I'll testify to you, of course. I'm telling you, the bank needs three days to get a warranty letter, and the competition was on day one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u281	You must testify to me, because you know very well that the procedure has been done by the General Staff and you must understand that you are currently accusing the General Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u282	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u283	Am I accusing the General Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u284	Am I blaming them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u285	I put it to the Minutes, Mr President, for the truth. Because when we talk in here, we need to be careful what we say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-five students and students and four educational sessions from the General Lyceum of Vrondus Chios and from the General Lyceum of Agios Kryrikos Ikaria. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Dannelis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the refugee - immigration - did not occur to us yesterday. However, the government has firmly chosen to close its eyes, spending it for a long time instead of being responsible and serious about it. The doctrine of the country of transit, unfortunately, was a good one, but very quickly it proved to be a chimera. The decisions of the Summit on the management of the refugee crisis were made on September 14 and 22, 2015 and since last October we were still committed to setting up fifty thousand hosting places. There were available European resources, there was time to make everything rational, with design and, above all, transparent, respecting legality. Reading the bill, we see that an unprecedented number of legal acts is required, fifty-six in number. What time-frame will be taken to ensure that the urgency of the bill makes sense? When you're not planning in time, you're leading to bias, to errors, but also to increased costs, unless, of course, the aim is to create a non-transparency regime, which would help to assign projects to "logue", uncontrolled recruitments outside the ADP. Before you tell me that 'yellow', I would remind you that the existing project and procurement legislation is beginning to go beyond the scope of the existing legislation, without worrying about whether or not the elementary prerogatives are respected and not just on the pretext of the refugee-migration emergency. I would also remind you that on the eve of the Olympics, we have rightly denounced the government for last-minute medals, since the urgency has been brought to a 'part of' hundreds of millions of euros, which we still have to unload from our hump. Given the urgency and escalating pressure on migratory and refugee flows, you could provide for specific structures in the services and organisations involved, so that for the projects, supplies and recruitment that will serve this design, a procedure - express, but at the same time ensuring transparency and control of the public interest. While experience tells us that we need to simplify the procedures, collect the multitude of the structures and services involved, because the system clearly hurts inconsistency and coordination, you are building new structures, making it even more complex and labyrinthy. What's the cost of this labyrinth? You can't tell us. The report by the General Accounting Office of the State is unclear - it has been said again - as unclear as the effectiveness of the chaotic structure that we are setting up. The extra-legal expenditure, which you retrospectively legalise, to what exactly does it amount to? Who will be directed to and what provision of services? You're creating bad precedents. You refer at the same time to entities other than solidarity with all forms and different NGOs. Who exactly are you thinking about? With regard to NGOs, with which you are maintaining a dubious relationship, I understand that it is extremely difficult to map the space. However, it is absolutely necessary, we have a moral and political obligation to those organisations whose members of altruism and human sensitivity give them their right to fundamentally take care of the inmates. We must protect the real NGOs dealing with the issue, their prestige, their credibility and their sensitivity from the differentiated and unknown origins and incentives of 'convergences' - within many introductory words the word - whose works and the days we see evolve. Beat the alarm: We must collect all those who are manipulating the refugees and immigrants who are despised, those who consider it right to take them to Piraeus - Constitution, not forgetting the routes of Chania - Piraeus - Legal - Hypatia. Reality has already crossed us. The internal conflicts between the various nationalities, doctrines, religions, etc. They've reached a critical point. The stabbings give and take, yesterday in Chios, the other day in Piraeus and elsewhere. The state has to deal with the problem, because in addition to maintaining order, in addition to the humanitarian issues raised, it cannot be an image of a country hosting so many people and trying to write yet another positive year in tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that responsibility for Idomen, Piraeus and all the points of establishment of refugees and migrants across Greece lies with the European Union, Turkey and, of course, with the wars and the intact international policy that led there, does not reduce our country's responsibilities and we must not forget that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr. Kammenos has the floor. As far as I can see, he hasn't come.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u289	In two minutes he'll be here, Mr. President. Let someone else take the lead, the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u290	The reason for seven minutes is Ms. Big housekeeper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. Have a nice day! We've heard all the unpleasant things we've been ravaging. So I'm going to tell you something delightful, too. From Piraeus and Idomen the refugees are gone. There's no one today. Do you believe me? It's a pro-April joke! Thank you. So I mentioned this because today on a television show the first April joke I heard it from the Minister of Finance. He said indirect taxation would apply since 2018, so April is today, we can say what we want, we cannot misunderstand them. You've been talking about it and not being a April. Now that it is, you have every right! Now let's get serious. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take some time and develop my thoughts on this bill and the last form it has taken, since all this time legislation is being introduced and passed as urgency. As you know, when the bill is declared urgent, within two days we reach the plenary vote. The procedure is legitimately foreseen, because there can indeed be an extremely urgent need. Thus, from 1993 to 2009, only 0.5% of the bills were passed as urgent. On the contrary, as we all understand, the last bill has tended to be the rule, not the exception. Much is, for example, the adoption of the last draft law on the creation of hot spots, the anti-dopting law. This is a dismantling of the parliamentary procedure. The General Accounting Office of the State has little time to make accurate costing. The bills do not go through consultation, and most of the time they infiltrate, and provisions without urgency. All this, I'm sorry, but they're showing a lack of democracy. Gentlemen, this bill provides in several places for the rental of private property or even the building of new buildings to serve Asylum Services and the Appeals Authority, which means the creation of the Reception and Identification Centres. Indicative is Article 3(3), Article 7(6) and Article 12(3). But I ask you this: Today we have a huge number of public buildings and areas fully unexploited. For the truth, I must present a post to you - I reserve it - from the newspaper "Kathimerini", which bears a date a few days ago, but I doubt it has been done anything drastically for the better since then. The text states that many real estate belonging to the public, to funds or beetles, remain unexploited and sink into depreciation. The objective value of the real estate of the funds alone, according to the three-year valuation, amounts to EUR 679.5 million. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece of 2016 we are serious about making cuts in subsidiary pensions, even in the main pensions of people who worked a life to receive a pension of EUR 600 today? Personally, I think it is the least provocative to leave the Greek government with the opportunity of arbitraryly spreading the Greek government's money for renting and purchasing buildings, while Greek public properties remain unused. Therefore, you must define strictly that the property of the Greek State will necessarily be used only when there are no public buildings in a region - justified at all times with the respective responsibilities of the signatory Ministers - then allow them to hire or build new buildings. With regard to the registration of third-country citizens, Article 9(1) states that the fingerprints of those who have completed the 14th year of their age are recorded. This means that children under the age of 14 have not been fully identified and given that recent Europol data have shown that some ten thousand refugees have disappeared and their luck is ignored after their entry into Europe - we will produce and publish - it is absolutely essential that there should be a way of total identification of all minors, so that if in the future a child of whom we have lost tracks is found, we can find out which child is exactly and can return to his family. Article 11(9) then refers to the delegation of part of the competences to NGOs, which you once again call them - listen to! - 'citizens of civil society'. I don't get it. They will be designated by the Director, on the basis of the standards that will be laid down by ministerial decisions. Yes, sir. However, you do not set at all strict conditions, which these NGOs should meet. For example, they should have done a long and worthwhile job already, they should be tax-information and so on. Another example is that Article 14(4) states that the third-country citizen will have recourse to the administrative court in order to be released. That's right. Any person within the Greek territory shall be entitled to appeal to the competent courts. But have you wondered what will happen at the administrative offices of Mytilini or Chios, for example, which will be responsible for possibly examining thousands of applications? Do you not think it is absolutely necessary to have parallel care to appoint more administrative judges and secretaries respectively? But, apart from purely functional issues, many questions arise about how the whole process is fully transparent at economic level. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Article 16(1) provides that storage of temporary reception facilities may be entrusted to private storage companies. Gentlemen, we all have to realise that this bill cannot be an opportunity for arbitrary action. Who decides which security company will keep every reception area? How will Greek citizens be assured that this is not another attempt to smash national money? Accordingly, Article 19 enables municipalities, legal persons governed by public law, to go beyond all the relevant Greek legislation and to award contracts directly to food companies, catering companies, clothing companies. Once again the justification for this derogation is to address emergencies and emergencies. But since our country is now faced with emergency and urgent needs, we must at some point realise that the violation of the entire legislative area tends to become a rule and not an exception. That is not acceptable. Finally, I would like to say that Article 22 extends the beneficial provisions of this bill to all those who have been asked to be granted international protection for the last five years. In other words, all foreigners and all those who have been in the last five years - before it was created, that is, the present wave of refugees from Syria - have applied for asylum, without anyone having certified that they are entitled to it, will suddenly obtain legal documents for the country. As you can see, this is extremely arbitrary, as it will include a huge number of immigrants, as much as absolutely dangerous, since an unknown number of people and not refugees can be legalised.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u292	Put a perfect one, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u293	I shall conclude, Mr President. Furthermore, Article 22(2) describes the serious crimes that one should not have committed in order to be able to submit to the order. These should also be added to the faults of violations of the drug law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House organises and operates, twenty-four members of three young European organisations. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Wait a minute, Mr. Kammenos, you don't have the floor. The President of the Greek Parliament now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u295	I thought you said that the President of the Independent Greeks had the floor and you were confusing me with Mr. Kammenos, so I was up. I didn't hear well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u296	The President of the Greek Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, I felt the need to be placed, because as Interior Minister in the previous period I had a very serious share of responsibility for the policy followed by the government in the first few months. It is right to speak about real elements and real considerations, because otherwise - with a narrative that has clear opposition peaks and reasons for there being and which is recurring in recent months - what is being done today for the country - when this account puts on its official voice from various sides of the opposition in the House - and what results in an acquittal of all the very bad policy of the European Union and the responsibilities of Turkey and all other factors. Because it is a multifactorial issue that has created these refugee flows and created widespread destabilisation throughout the region. We were two weeks ago in Tunisia. I had gone particularly because it is the only country where he survived and there was a Parliament through these so-called - let's say - 'Arab Springs' and so on. Next to Libya, Algeria, where the problems are present. Destabilisation throughout the region of the Middle East and North Africa in recent years has been unprecedented and has created these dramatic refugee flows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u298	It is the abovementioned market change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u299	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u300	With twenty-two countries which have to change borders, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u301	Yeah. And they started from oranges, too, from elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u302	In 2003!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u303	Okay, yeah! But I want to have at least a common basis for the facts. So I challenge you, quite rightly - and allow me the word 'provoke', in introductory terms, because you know that during this time of the House, when I am in the Chair, I do not want to, but there must be no sharp position for parties and so on. - to have and submit any European Union document from the end of 2014 to the end of May - June 2015, any person, either Mr Avramopoulos - with whom we were in very close contact and cooperation and who was and is the Commitrio of Migration Policy - or any country from which this increase in flows can be seen. At these successive extraordinary meetings, which were held for the first time by Prime Minister Tsipras, he introduced - and was accepted through the rituals that have gone through many difficult phases - the doctrine of the European countries' share of responsibility for taking responsibility in relation to refugee flows. Because until then the doctrine was 'fortress', 'prevent'. And now I am referring to Europe as a whole and not to the Greek governments or Greece. I repeat that, on any official side of the European Union, international organisations, embassies, states, had not been mentioned as a whole - and I do not only mean to our country - that the influx of this amount would reach, in addition to an increase that had been estimated and which was 70% -100%. In fact, I can tell you certain figures: in 2014 we had seventy - four thousand influxes, and the estimate was that it would reach the number possibly at a hundred to twenty - one hundred to fifty thousand. And this, if it were to close, as the portal from Italy closed, because of the programme - not to mention its name - where there was a deterrent. Because they were ships and not plastic boats. They were faced with a blow that took place or which would happen on the Libyan coast and so on. Indeed, all the preparation of the Greek Government - I repeat in full, and not simply in agreement - with the authorities of the European Union was about that amount of the flows. That is why the Minister referred to earlier - and there were reactions from colleagues below, who I am sure they do not know the data and I would ask them to study them - that all the preparation was for this type of thing the flows, which would obviously be dealt with through the pre-regulatory centres and the others. So there has been the policy that has been pursued. From nowhere did this scary number come up from the end of June, early July. You will ask me: 'How did this come about?' And of course it hadn't been heard in here. Please come to any practice, which says we will go to octoplasm, tenfold or halve the flow! And that's right, there wasn't! Where did it come from? Have any facts been made, colleagues, which we may not remember? When did Aleppo and Palmyra get occupied? Have you forgotten? When were the roads that led beyond what was going to Jordan and Lebanon? And we are talking about four million and two million refugees in the six years that have accumulated! When were the new refugee flows created? At the same time there were the problems of non-economic support in camps in Turkey - which were the 2.2 million - while at the same time there was a reduction in expenditure, aid and support in Jordan's camps. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] But I repeat that it was the main cause of Syria's entire bourgeoisie - the middle and not only, but also the upper ones - and pieces of Iraq, due to the eruption of ISIS. Or do you want to talk now about the responsibilities of the European Union? Does the European Union live outside? Was ISIS imprinted on guns falling from the sky? They were strategic issues, destabilising our area. And quite rightly, the Greek government began then to activate the triangles of external relations with Lebanon, with Egypt, with Cyprus, with Israel, because the geostrategic importance of tensions and confrontations was going to our region, passing by us and going to that area. And these huge flows and suffocation were created, with people leaving. See the map of military operations as it was in December, January, March, May, the scenes that came to the West, which suddenly discovered how they were cutting off heads and how terrorism would be imported. The increase in terrorist attacks, first of all there, with incredible victims and secondly with major victims and extensively in Europe's metropolitan areas. When did this happen? Is the policy of SYRIZA's open doors? But I'm sorry! That is why I am telling you that we have now reached a point that has been held here before the agenda for debates and so many meetings and conferences and decisions. Come and confront the data of the bill, if any. I heard yesterday in the committees that there were good comments from some aspects in order to see, to improve, to change things, to see the 'grey areas' of the agreement that has been reached, which opens roads, but continues to have 'grey zones'. Come on, let's talk about this. Is the account of the Greek Government and the Left's ideals, which have come back from seventy thousand of them in Europe to the eighty-seven thousand refugees? It's out of place and time. Allow me! And that's why I said I'm in no mood. We could talk about it for hours, you know, in practical terms, by means of decisions, until the strategy of responsibilities for the European countries has been accepted, which failed to implement it, because it has not been mandatory and you are well aware of it. Tsipra's soul came out! And you know that. And there was support from the parties for the Europeans who have their references in this Chamber, because it was the European Union's strategy and you know it. Why has the policy of sixty-six thousand, decided in September, not applied as a first ballast to the Visegrad countries as well as others, not as a first ballast? Come to talk about it and to form a front not nationalist nor nationalist, but a forehead of logic in dealing with this crucial issue, which - I repeat - comes from the future, is not of the past. Nor does it close with a Europe fortress, which, perhaps, needs to be ready to welcome millions of immigrants - I say much more than Mr Muzalas said earlier about the five hundred thousand - and you have all spoken with the ambassadors and with the presidents of the parties in the destabilised area. Unless you think that the West will help a number of civil conflicts, for "Springs" and "springs" democracies from outside or for war operations, which have made six trillion dollars by 2015 and people will stay there, don't leave, save their children. Let's talk about these big strategic issues, policy in our region, stabilise the region, counteract these forces of evil, instead of constantly pulling out your dock for the Greek Government, he says, and open borders policy, say, more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u304	There is a possibility of discussing this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u305	So I repeat - and here I condone - that anyone who has to testify - to date any documentary, even one party, with reference to Europe - in this case the People's Party or another party, not the International Bureau, or Mr Avramopoulos - which warns and assesses that this situation, which will have these consequences, will be established in 2015, would be asked to present it to the Greek Parliament and, on the basis of this, then to assess responsibility. If there is no such assessment at all, we must all go together to assess the real responsibilities, causes and policies that have created the problems that have arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u306	Mr Kammenos has the floor by the ANELs for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to almost all the speakers. I have heard the last speech and I have heard the speech of the honourable President of the House, Mr Voutsi, and I would like to say the following: If there were a provision on what the President invoked in any European country - let us stay in the twenty-nine countries that are in the European Union - there would have been a provision in their budgets to predict expenditure. It's a very basic thing to say. Already, they would make a defence strategy or increase their equipment, either in a coastguard or in police, or in helicopters or in surveillance systems. None of this happened. The IMF report - I do not now have it with me, but at some point we will be tabling it in the House and I think that it has been read, like another two that we discussed with Mr Stournara - it is clear: there is a budget for the management and integration of immigrants in Europe huge proportion of GDP in each country, which was budgeted in December 2016. For Greece it was the GDP rate, which brought an equivalent euro to around 650 million in 2016. For Germany, the full cost of integration was EUR 10.5 billion. It is a very large IMF analysis of both migration macroeconomics and how immigrants integrate and affect macroeconomic, and not just the economy. In other words, this study says that they are directly affected and the debt to GDP is growing. This is the study and it is fully documented. It also says that wages fall because young workers entering the countries of the European Union throw the wages down. So we're pulling wages down, so GDP falls practically and money and money is being wasted with debt, this fraction grows. So the conclusion I said before is that the debt to GDP is increasing. At the same time it says that the money has not been budgeted. So imagine a Germany that has not budgeted, according to the IMF, 10.5 billion and, according to German economists, 16 billion for 2015. He hasn't been budgeted from somewhere. So how will she make crisis management decisions within her country? I understand the attempt of political controversy. I do not understand why we need to disagree and say 'no' on such an important and serious issue. I really do not understand 'no'. What does "no" bring? Let us make a case of work: let us say that today all of us here say 'no'. We say: you are right, 'no'. We shut it down, don't pass the bill, and tomorrow morning what do we do? Has the Opposition wondered tomorrow morning what we're doing? We have wondered, as a collision and as an Independent Greek, and we are in constant contact with SYRIZA and with all the executives. What are we doing? Make it as best as possible, but the next day is chaotic, we're off the deal. We are the one who does not have the agreement, which has no way of transporting, housing, feeding, managing in any way, in any way, legally adopted, any refugee crisis. We have people in our country, they'll start coming and leaving, we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. Does the opposition today prefer to say a 'no' sterile, irresponsible and possibly bring the country - let me not be a dangerist - in an obvious chaos, why do we see that the ally in NATO is completely unreliable and at any time can find another way to bring immigrants to Greece? Here, then, we should work together, and you should every day call Mr. Muszala, Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Vitsa, and say 'Come here as a parliamentary control, since we have supported you, we will dissolve you in the opposition, do it properly, do it better'. All this, however, on implementation, not to have a plan and a plan. Second, when you have crisis management, at school we're told very basic things, that you're doing your plan. You're not looking to find a solution in the middle of the crisis, because most likely you're wrong and not having the right result. So we have to have a plan to manage the crisis. This is the best thing that exists at the table right now, I would ask that it be voted on and we are here to accept control and make it better, but we have too many unstable factors. I have to criticise the previous government and my friends in the New Democracy. Honourable Mr. Dendias in a question by the Minister of Tourism now, by Mrs. Kounturas, in 2013 - I will not read it in the Chamber, I will submit it in the Minutes - for the migration flows in Greece, if there is a record, etc., he has brought information from the police - very correct data on the arrests and registration of foreigners - but Mr. Athanasios, the chief minister responsible, responds: ‘The results of the 2001 census, which obviously do not respond to reality’, I do not know why, he will explain it to us, ‘because there is no valid way of calculating the population of illegally staying in Greece, Mr. Syrigos said that the only evidence available, beyond dispute, is the number of illegally entering aliens arrested by the Greek Police and the Port Council after 2008 until today’. The answer is from February 2013. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] According to the existing data, such as those posted on the Greek Police website, the number of arrested foreigners from 2008 to 2012 is five hundred seventy seventy thousand nine hundred. We come out of the box of controversy and we've arrested - and the New Democracy is welcome - five hundred seventy-seven thousand people. Who were they? How did they get inside then? What did he do? How did he check the evidence? How did he check the entrances? Five hundred seventy-seven thousand detainees! I'll tell you the numbers of ELSTAT, I have all the numbers. Was Mr. Dendias then accused of having an open border? Oh, no. He's done his job, and he's misled, but Mr. Athanasios admits there's no way of calculating it. So then we had to say that there was an open border and a mess, why didn't we know who it is and where and what ethnicity? Oh, no. I am presenting the ELSTAT report, which, according to Mr Athanasios, is not correct. In 2001, registered foreigners in Greece are seven hundred ninety-three thousand ninety-three. It is important that we have these facts. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are now going to register foreigners in Greece in 2011. All of these are elements of the census officially: a million two hundred eight thousand three hundred forty. Is Greece open borders then? Should we charge you with open borders? No, we don't blame you for something. You did well to arrest and take out the outlaws, but you had a million two hundred and a half hundred and thirty-three registered aliens! We are the ones who are to blame, with fifty thousand, who are looking for piles in Piraeus and taking them home to feed the people who die and drown them by the Turks? You had a million forty thousand with official evidence, not informally. I don't say either Babis Suyas, as long as he fits sense of humor in this difficult situation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, just one more minute. Honourable Mr Kaklamanis - and I turn to his question - in a question in 2015, he says that the assessment of the size of the problem results from the fact that the number of immigrants at the end of 2014 was two million forty-two thousand three hundred forty-eight. My friend Nikitas, I don't know where he got the number, but it's officially registered. In Greece at the end of 2014, it was about two million and two thousand immigrants, says my friend Nikitas. I'm not saying it. At the end of 2014. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the question and request for documents to be lodged in the archives of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What is the responsibility of all the governments, which are all coming today to judge this government, which brings a plan to control and implement? I have the full analysis of ELSTAT for all, with all 2011 figures and the census. I want to close by saying this is a very serious case to get into micro-groups. The evidence I gave, not to create impressions, but only for the fairness of the case of both sides. We must be fair when dealing with human souls and how much more with the Greek nation, which must survive demographicly and cross-borderly and with all people, their families and the foreigners who live in Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report by ELSTAT, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To do this, the Ministry of Public Order, the Ministry of Migration Policy, the Ministry of National Defence, the Deputy Secretary General, Mr Janetos Filippakos, who has done an excellent job, all together must work for the security of the nation. "What is the security of the nation?" wonders the world on the way. And I call upon our government, because when we go now to Idomeni to begin the process of restoring normality in the fields and in the streets, I want to arrest these foreigners, the mysterious Austrians, with the mystery of the wool that comes to me and tell me "go, attack the police and set up the scene on the street". These people will have to be checked out. Everybody! I don't know why they're doing this, but all I know is that some of them have been arrested - you're laughing, Mrs. Catrivanu, I'm glad, because I'm saying jokes - it's that they don't want to be taken away from the camera. What are these people afraid of? What is the aim of Austrians opening up the van and pulling out scenes, setting them up on the road and creating a break with Greece's local population? "I conceive" the Ministry of Public Order, in the good sense, I say it, and in quotes - take it as you like - but we must bring order and security to the Greek population. We're doing everything right. We'll make some mistakes, but it's not time for more mistakes and social unrest. Mr Muzala, you have done an excellent job, but much attention is needed to social cohesion right now. It is sensitive because of the tourist season, but we should not allow any type of haircut and any type of passport to come uncontrollable and say: "Go, attack the soldiers, go and go through that alley, rappel with a tied cord of cruisers", which we did in Redina in 1987. People are professionals. We need to check what they and their purpose are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u308	Thank you. Please keep up with the times. Mr. Muzalas has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u309	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling legislative improvements and I would ask the parties' representatives to be given them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u310	Thank you. Mr Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u311	Madam President, an old English parliamentarian said that the urgent way in the legislation bears witness to the fact that a statute lies at the very beginning or at the end of it. Judging by the way you govern, by which the SYRIZA - ANEL government has been ruling for a year, it is probably at the end of the day. Otherwise, you cannot see what the reason for the urgent procedure is for a bill to tackle a problem, the existence of which you knew before you even came to power, or in part that you created it. The main part of today's legislation, namely Articles 34 to 67, consists of the transposition of the directive on procedures for granting international protection, that is, the application of the notorious Geneva Convention. Here, first of all, before we actually enter, there must be some critical remarks, which the average Greeks should know, remarks and things that are artificially hidden. The Geneva Convention is 1951. It works in connection with the 1967 New York Protocol, which has an interpretative role for the Geneva Convention. So without entering into legal details, for refugees outside Europe, countries that have not ratified the protocol are not considered safe as countries of origin because these refugees cannot seek asylum. Turkey is one of these countries. In simple terms, anyone who comes from the Middle East or the Near East to Turkey as a refugee, for example, from Syria or Afghanistan, cannot seek asylum in Turkey because that country has not ratified the relevant protocol. So practical legal responsibility for Syrian refugees is the host state, in which they will want to go after Turkey, if it has ratified the New York Protocol. And what state is that? Greece. Greece, therefore, has also formally granted land and water to Turkey, officially and institutionally, without any doubt, that, without Turkey losing anything of its power, even with increased legal power, it can now, even if it has not signed the Protocol, through NATO, break down the whole of the Eastern Aegean, by turning the illegal disputes against Greece into an international issue and even by the legalisation of the North Atlantic Alliance, namely NATO. Who's lost and who's finally won? Is the SYRIZA's ideal government happy now and the light right-wing Minister of National Defence, who will accept to be named, 'inadvertently', said, 'Macedonia' even Evia, is it enough for him to continue to sit at his ministerial court? At this point, because we are talking about the Minister of National Defence, but also because of the fact that you are judging and the lion - the word 'lean' in this case - we must put it in too many introductory forms - and I mean the hypocritical - so-called honourer of the Armed Forces, I shall present to the House, Madam President, the content of the non-reportable Internet, from 10-2-16, of the GES document. According to this, and I will not go into the materials, I will not go into the armies' tents, I will not go into the disposal of camps, I will not go into the twenty-two thousand portions that it distributes every day and I will not go into the illegal and exotic day-to-day work of the soldiers, I will refer to the document, which makes EUR 1,300 available - the amount is low, but it is important - for supplies of material, namely for the purchase of three PlayStation 4 for the needs of the hot spot Lesvos, expenditure which, according to paragraph 2 of the rationale, will be borne by the 2016 budget for the General Staff of the Army. In paragraph 8 - listen to the important - of the same document I read: This order is excluded from posting on the Internet, because according to the article, etc. the relevant law contains elements relating to the organisation, layout and composition of GES units and any publication may cause damage to the country's national defence and security. Here's what Panos Kammenos is. I mention this today, in order to understand the work of the political leader of the Armed Forces, the nationally dangerous and untrustworthy Mr Panos Kammenos, and to inform the Greek people how his neo-Algeral second office deals with paying PlayStation for refugees, when Turks and NATO are struggling in the Aegean Sea. So the directive, which you are incorporating today, makes use of practices and conditions which have not been used or which are to be used by the gracious Greek Government, which prefers the intact entry and full immunity of migrants' actions, despite the systematic recording and control of their movements. Thus, for example, while provided for in the Convention - Article 34(3) - that the asylum seeker may be kept in custody before his full registration is carried out, Greece so far chooses, after their poor registration, i.e. without the use of biometric data, identity data, etc., as provided for in paragraph 5, to be released and therefore to be non-existent legal and if they do not want to appear for further registration. Another outrageous point in this convention that we are debating today, which goes unnoticed, is the possibility for the applicant - paragraph 6 of Article 34 - to apply on behalf of the adult members of his family. Why should this happen? Is it because women in Muslims, in most cases, are legally dependent on males, so they do not have legal capacity, as our legal culture means? Does this not bother SYRIZA feminists and all kinds of organisations that were uprooted when SYRIZA was going to pass the law on homosexuals? In order to prevent anyone who could distort the concepts of the provision, we refer him to Article 8 of the same article, according to which a minor over 15 years of age may submit a request for international protection in person, with only one note, Mr Mouszala: the minor, although he can submit his own application, can also be represented by a legal person who is not profitable, namely, in other words by a NGOs. Do you understand what this means to unaccompanied minors, or should we make this even clearer? One basic principle of asylum application is that this must be submitted immediately after the applicant enters the safe country. On the other hand, Article 39(1) provides that applications are not to be refused solely on the ground that they have not been submitted as soon as possible. So this important criterion for the distinction of refugees and illegal immigrants is also being badly distorted. If anyone can be viewed as a refugee, whenever he likes and especially whenever his plans for escape from the country, illegally through wherever he comes, then we are no longer talking about refugee, but of a smuggling that is exploited by every movementor. Article 42(1) of the Act also provides for the possibility of a physical investigation and an investigation of the subject-matter of applicants for asylum. While this paragraph seems perfectly correct - and so should be done in every favoured state - it is completely out of the climate. What current Minister, in his capacity as minister, would allow him to be searched by a uniform of even half a foreigner, when they refuse to apply the law to their inter-agreements, which, for two and a half hours, were in progress in Piraeus and Chios, which made many injured and serious damages? Article 43(4) sets out an incredible and unjustified provision: ‘Except for the element of nationality and place of birth may be amended if the applicant makes a relevant statement and it is established that these elements have been recorded incorrectly. Similarly, for exceptional reasons, the identity data may be amended if the interview has shown reasonable and serious reasons for not having declared the facts.’ This paragraph formally urges invaluable registration and therefore urges immunity. It gives its mark on how this serious work will be carried out by this government and whether we will ever have full and reliable information from those who have entered our country illegally. This practice is also confirmed by Article 45, which refers to unaccompanied minors, according to which: ‘The fact that an unaccompanied minor has refused to undergo a medical examination’, in order to determine age, i.e. ‘does not prevent the decision authorities from taking a decision on the application’. Do you now understand what kind of recording we're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u312	Do you want to use the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u313	I won't have any second, Madam President. Please, a tolerance. The reason why Greece will fatally face the fate of Madrid, Paris and Brussels, with a new generation of extremists, is within this piece of legislation. Would you like another confirmation? Article 46 states that ‘any person or stateless person applying for international protection shall not be detained solely for the reason that he has applied for international protection and that he has entered irregularly and/or remains in the country without a legal residence permit’. But what will be the time in which all this should take place and the applicants will acquire whatever status they will be granted? In accordance with Article 51(2), therefore, ‘the examination of applications shall be completed as soon as possible and in any event within six months’. Includes this provision among the mandatory ones, in the sense that, if the procedure is not implemented in time, the applicant loses the right. Question: Does he lose it? Of course not. Therefore, with the asylum seeker's status, namely the one already known to us as a red card, one, even if his request is rejected, will be able to enjoy the benefits provided, even for years in Greece, as is the case in thousands of cases in Greece, so far. What, then, is the security regime promised by the government? Today, rather than ever, it is timely to demand the Golden Dawn, which is also provided for by the Constitution, for a referendum, on a subject of major social importance, on the so-called "immigrant". The change in the population composition of the country, which has been taking place for decades, but with more tension over the last year, cannot be treated with aspirins. It cannot be handled with false humanism and with aristocratic ideas. The Greek people must decide on their fate. But in the referendum will you do what the Greek people want, or will you do the opposite, as you have already been used to? While the overwhelming majority will tell you, therefore, that it cannot be tolerated for his life to be degraded, for his home to be damaged, for his recommendation to be altered, for you to do exactly the opposite, because you supposedly signed it or because the European Union's rulers and dictatorships thus order it. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to show the hypocritical attitude of the neoliberal right of the New Democracy of Mitsotakis, which, through its rapporteur, has stirred up the process, but not the content of the draft law, saying that it will vote in favour of the provisions which it considers to be our European case, thereby putting the European Union's interest above the national interest. We will ask for a roll-call vote, so that the Greek people understand the co-responsibility of the New Democracy party, because, as I said, neither spontaneous nor accidental so-called'refugee flows' are. Ladies and gentlemen, even now there is hope, for the nation that is fighting, the nation that insists will only cease to exist, as our ancient teacher has taught, when he ceases to exist among us the ommon, homogenous, homogenous, homogenous and homogenous. As long as there is Golden Dawn, we guarantee that there will be all this in Greece, even if we need our lives to give for them, over and above positions, over and above illegal persecution, simply because we are Greeks, because we are popular fighters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u314	The floor is for the SYRIZA Member, Mr. Dousinas, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u315	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the masterpiece of Eishlon "Iketides", Danaides, the fifty daughters of King Dana, go to Argos and seek asylum from King Pelasgow to avoid incestuous marriage with the fifty sons of Egypt. The sure king is afraid to give them asylum, even as the barbarians attack them, and puts the question to the municipality. The municipality decides unanimously to give asylum to the beets. After that, the god of asylum, the god of zeusia, the Xenios Zeus, gives his blessing to the city. We remember that the term "Xenos Zeus" was used by the previous government in a logic of post-modern irony, because he thus named a police campaign, which arrested in the center of Athens anyone who showed dark, including a Pakistani professor who had then called the Polytechnics. But why do I start like this? Because, ladies and gentlemen, today is the first time that we in this Parliament have been discussing this enormous issue of asylum and refugee, and I think it is important that we should remember and remember things that exist in our memory, possibly oppressed, and things that I think are moving for our people. Asylum is non-confidence, i.e. protection given to a persecutor, usually to someone else or stranger. This institution, the tradition of asylum, which, as we have seen, starts in ancient Greece, exists in all the great peoples. In the Jew Deuteronomy, the Old Testament, they are arranged and called six refugee cities, in which the persecutors can go, give a testament to the priests there, and then the city will protect them. The same in India, too in China. Why - we will ask - is there this tradition, this ancient institution, which unites so many different cultures? For me, the answer is obvious: for the way in which we welcome the other and the foreign as a symbol of this perfection is the foundation of morality. The every "me" I say and every "me" you say is always within a "you". There is no "I" without "you". I do not have any identity, I have no existence, if there is no one else, to come and tell me "you", to understand the "I". In this sense, the other and the foreigner, as I say, are the very foundation of absolute perfection, the foundation of all morals, whether religious, moral or even beneficial. Here I would say that for the Left, morality is not just humanism, it is not just charity. That's what a lot of people might have. When President Christodoulopoulos, Mrs Kurtovik, the left and the young people of the KKE, not now, but ten, twenty years ago, were either naturally or materially protecting the refugees and immigrants who came to Greece, they were not just humanists. It was just in that tradition of the left morality. This bill that we are going through today is, I think, further proof of what we have said since the beginning of these Parliament's procedures. The government's planning statements and the government's efforts in an extremely difficult climate show in the best way what the Left's morality is. The morality of the municipality, the morality of the people, appeared to the "Ikettides", when the municipality unanimously decided to grant asylum. The king's morals? So, the state morality? As soon as the last day, 23 March, the latest, the most recent, that is, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, the Sakir case against Greece, in which Greece was again condemned, because in 2010 Mr. Sakir, Afghan refugee, became the target of attack by a group of masks who sent him with heavy wounds to the hospital. He stayed in the hospital four days. Once he got out of the hospital, he was taken directly to the San Panteleimon Police Department. And that's where they kicked him. So he applied against Greece and decided once again that Greece is violating Article 3, which prohibits torture, inhuman and degrading behaviour, in this case to refugees and asylum seekers. But that was only the last decision. Eleven decisions came out from 2009 to 2014. I'm filing them here, so the Secretariat will have them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Dousina, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But the most interesting was the important M.S.S.S. decision. On the other hand, there is no doubt that the Commission will It was original. Mr. Afghan doctor came to Greece and then went to Belgium to ask for asylum there and under the Dublin Treaty Belgium returned him to Greece to examine his application in the first country of admission. The court ruled in the case against Belgium in 2012 that Belgium was not entitled to send Mr M. to Greece, because at the time Greece infringed Article 3 and in relation to the living conditions of refugees, which were contrary to Article 3, but also to the number of refugees who received asylum in Greece. It says in paragraph 358 that there was no guarantee that his application for asylum would be seriously examined, that he would be examined seriously. This was, of course, followed by the fact, as we have heard, that only 0.1 applications for asylum were accepted. So that was the state's situation. The state was treating refugees, treating immigrants as barbarians and conquerors. That was the behavior. He's been sentenced repeatedly. The European Union's Committee on Human Rights in its 2014 report describes in detail the tortures suffered by various candidates for civil asylum in prisons and police departments. And this situation, dear friends, I think the new law is now starting to change. In other words, it should adapt the morality of the municipality, the morality of the people - which appears in the priests, fishermen, and the organization of the "KATS OF THEIR" in Piraeus, from where I come, which goes every day to the various gates and helps the world - to adjust the logic of the municipality with the logic of the king, with the logic of the state. By introducing a number of provisions from the European directive it also improves the personalised procedures for examining asylum applications and the living conditions of this world, as long as it is in Greece, pending the decision in its application. In this sense, this bill - and I call on everyone to vote on it - resurrects Greece, not only in the European data of European law and of the legal order, which many people have said, but starts to return Greece to the obligation to behave to the other and foreign people in a moral way, because we are also moral people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u316	The Parliamentary spokesman for the Union of Centres, Mr Karras, and then Mr Kefaloyannis from New Democracy, will speak so that we do not have any follow-up to speakers or any follow-up to parliamentary representatives. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for ten minutes and you all respect each year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to be allowed by Mr. Doussas a comment. I'm going to take down a little bit of the conversation from the philosophical convincing that led us to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u318	But we're fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u319	Yes, but regardless of that, I shall have to deal with practical matters, Mr Dousina, which is why I am making this introduction. Yesterday, then, the government's bill was introduced to the Committee on Civil Service, Public Justice and the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs. In fact, it deals with both internal policy and foreign policy issues. We questioned the urgency of the matter, and indeed I justified it as a special speaker in the committees for the fact that much of it is already a repetition of European Union procedures - and I am referring to the first-host asylum procedures - and the first part of it creates services, which, in our view, could have already been covered by the existing Greek services of the Ministry of the Interior, the regions and even the municipalities. So we have said that we think it is really luxurious the way in which General and Special Secretariats are now recommended. It is a long time until they are staffed, qualified for the reason that we read in the draft law that there will also be temporary contracts and that there will be project assignments covering any needs. We have not yet seen how the European Union will assist the effort on the refugee - immigration. We hoped at least - and I and the fact that the Association of Centres - that we would have a real briefing before the drafting of this bill on the agreements that had been made, the so-called European Union-Turkey agreement on 18-3-2016 and the updated agreement between Greece and Turkey on 9-3-2016 on the readmission of irregular incomings into Greece. We haven't heard from the government yet. We did not see these agreements identified or incorporated into the draft law we are debating today. The only information we have unfortunately had was from the European Union's website, which posted a text of conclusions, which, of course, because of its abbreviation, cannot provide us with safe information about what will happen from now on. There is a presumption that there is a migration crisis, a refugee crisis which has an impact on Greece and, above all, a serious crisis. The impact, however, is not just dependent on our own operations. It depends on both the East and the North of the European Union. I would also like to point out something else, whether it is confessed or not, there are flows from North Africa which, in the form of the 'Arab Spring', are destabilised and we do not know the developments in the coming months or next year. I referred to the beginning of my speech in the fact that the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also participated in the committee. That a little strange to me, because - I say - immigration comes under the Ministry of Interior, it is an internal matter, why should we have a mixed, joint debate by the Committee on Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs? So I read the directive we are trying to adapt to Greek legislation today. There are some thorns in this directive. Firstly, it has the meaning of the safe third country in which the European Union should decide very soon whether or not to integrate Turkey. This is also of enormous importance for the possibility of applying the updated readmission agreement between the two Prime Ministers, but also for the possibility for the European Union to impose the agreements already agreed on 18 March. So I noticed two things within this directive. And I shall refer in particular to the articles. It therefore has a possibility to characterise third countries of Europe as safe and safe third countries outside Europe. It has not been answered - in my opinion or my knowledge, if you will, I would like to hear any more views - if Turkey, in relation to the directive that we are adapting, will join safe European countries or join safe non-European countries. So this has not been discussed yet. Because I'm talking about it. If it is not possible to join the European safe countries - because the directive itself in Annex 2 tells us that a safe European country is considered the one that has no geographical restrictions and Turkey is known to have not ratified the 1967 New York Protocol and it only applies the agreement to the European countries - we have a risk of it if it is designated, namely, in this category. I should like to refer to an foreign policy issue in the country that has a serious internal impact because of the refugee and immigration issue. If, therefore, it has such a characterisation, the rest of Turkey should be exempted from the so-called 'Eastern Thrace'. So it can be considered as a secure third country at the same time as a non-European country? The European Union must choose - not us - the designation. Unfortunately, we did not hear that in the debate between the Greek Prime Minister and the Turkish Prime Minister. In my own mind, in my own perception, it remains a huge gap. I therefore think that this would be the major thing that we should have discussed in this sitting and in this House in general, even if it relates to foreign policy, because it is the pretext, the question of a preliminary ruling, the condition, whether the agreements of the European Union - Turkey or even Greece - will be implemented. So I'm leaving it in part. I can't solve it. I cannot suggest on this matter. It's major. At least it goes beyond those possibilities which we have in today's debate because they are limited to a bill. But in the thoughts, we have said that, in principle, we cannot vote today's bill because it does not solve us, it does not deal with major issues, which we fear will be dealt with in the future. In any case, I also expressed the view yesterday that, although the government insisted that this was an urgent case, I believed and still believe that the provisions of the Treaty. 3907 and the previous President-in-Office's decree on common procedures in 2013 - if I am not mistaken, Mr Mouszala - already cover the existing legislative framework and should have been implemented not only in the last time the crisis has been exacerbated, but from the outset that the crisis has started to show signs of giganticity since the time when the Middle East began to become aware that it is now destabilising. Since 2011, we have had the first signs of the civil war in Syria. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end, Madam President, in particular. We have had the indications with the fall of Mubarak regimes, as well as Libya with Gaddafi, with all this civil war that still remains. Let's not talk about Moroccans, about Maghreb, because that's where the story goes, what we can accept in the future. I don't want to think about it right now. You will allow me to make a little reference to my thoughts and not to talk about Egypt. I do not want to say more about the risks of destabilisation. I don't want to, Madam President. So in these thoughts, we thought that there was a strong or sufficient legislative framework, which should have already been implemented by means of interventions, even partial arrangements, and that was the case by Law 3907. This is also the responsibility of the New Democracy, which had this law for two years and had nothing to do with it. It is also the responsibility of SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Even at the very last moment, therefore, they should be acting on the law, recommending the Asylum Services, to set up the Secondary Boards of Appeal. Nothing happened. So Greece went through... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm just finishing up with that thought. Did it, then, serve Greece - did I say, I do not charge, I do not concede - to become this corridor through Greece and through the Balkan countries? Did it also serve European countries to take the foam of the migratory wave? Because those who passed in 2014, in 2015, were Syria's bourgeois class and the civil order of other countries that had statements abroad, and had European education. So these countries were strengthened, and once the poor Greece arrived, Greece facing a migration problem, the proletarians of the countries came to her, the proletarian refugees, and we have to deal with a major issue of care, feeding and housing. In my thoughts, then, I conclude and say that the Central Association will not vote for the bill at first. Those articles which either lead to the replacement and adaptation of the 2013 directive, we believe that we should vote on them even if necessary. In some other fragmentary provisions that we consider may also help to relieve refugees - I do not want to say whether or not anything will work by this law - we will be positive. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u320	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, sixty-two students and apprentices and four educational sessions from the University of Connoriotissa Pieria. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with this very briefly. They referred to the committee yesterday and even emerged from our rapporteur, the two main reasons why the government is enacting urgently once again. I note that the urgent procedure has become a second type of government in terms of how to legislate. Firstly, because, apparently, it has given specific commitments to European partners for a specific timetable. We said, of course, yesterday to the committee that this is not a bad thing. Suffice it, Minister, and gentlemen of the government, to inform us about this timetable, about the legislative initiatives you are calling for next time to bring to this House and what other actions you will take. Both the committee responsible and the plenary are now uninformed. And I think this is not Parliament's democratic way of working. I told you yesterday in committee both the statement by Mrs Bertos, the responsible representative for immigration issues, who says that the Greek Parliament should legislate until 4 April, as well as the Turkish and of course the statements made by the Deputy representative of the Federal Government of Germany, Mrs Christiane Virts, who says exactly the same thing, namely that the Greek Parliament should have legislated by Monday 4 April. Of course, the second reason why you are bringing the urgency is that you did not want and do not want to have an extensive debate on this bill, precisely because it contains provisions, which are from evil to unaccurate. More generally, you did not want us to go into a procedure that the Commission would have discussed in principle and, perhaps, called for bodies. I remember from other times that one of SYRIZA's main demands was to call bodies, listen to them and see what they say about the bill. This time we're over it. And, of course, plenary within eight hours, in fact it is called upon to legislate on an issue which is at the moment in Greek society and in the Greek state is the most zealot. As far as the bill is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I think the more one reads it, the more one wonders who is the final recipients. Is it, then, a mandatory expression of humanity to the refugees, as was heard in committee yesterday? I think that the answer has long been given to the miserable living conditions in the camps, the conflicts between the refugees in Piraeus, the massive escape of five hundred from the hot spot in Chios a few hours ago - of course, this thing and this image do not honor us as a country - and, of course, the drug-drug climate in Idomeni. Is it a prerequisite for the agreement to be complied with with with with the European Union and Turkey? It could have been if both the government and the MPs believed it. Because if I judge from yesterday's announcement by SYRIZA colleagues, the so-called '53' group - leading SYRIZA officials and government ministers, they have even signed up to this bill - they are denounced the castles that Europe is building, closed centres and recording centres, because they do not, they do not guarantee human rights. It was said yesterday, but it is worth repeating, Minister, that this draft law was written at a time when no matter what it is today, it serves. On the contrary, he served - and still serves - primarily two things: Firstly, the ideological approach of the SYRIZA to open borders, with the main recipient of its internal party audience, and secondly, the electoral clientele - real and potential - which should rub its hands with the great opportunities opened before it, with the hundreds of new recruitments, posts, commissions and contracts. But let's look at them one by one. Article 46, under normal circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, should be nothing but a simple transposition into national law of a European legislation and directive. Not at all, though. But the directive also states that the government will incorporate it. And, at least, this is unprecedented for the Greek Parliament. While the directive states that the Member States are not detaining a person simply because it is an applicant for international protection, the Government has found it appropriate, in a poor manner, to add the words 'and that it has entered irregularly...' - a newly unprecedented term - 'or even remains in the country without a legal residence permit'. In political, legal and moral terms, ladies and gentlemen, this is a political deception of the Greek Parliament, the European Union, of our own intelligence. I quote for the minutes the translation of Article 8 of Directive 33/2013 from the Official Journal of the European Union, where the term ‘irregular entry into Greek territory’ does not exist. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But it is not just this violation of European regulations. In Article 8, remove closed-ended detention centres for those who are not entitled to refugee status. And this provision is in direct contrast with Article 15 of Directive 2008/115, which is incorporated into Article 30 of the Treaty. Date of birth: 3907/2011. I am also in favour of the relevant provision in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the moment, then, we have this paradox for our national legal order. We have two provisions on the same issue, the detention - it says - of illegal immigrants, which provide for two different administrative procedures, one on the one hand, and the other on the other. In fact, it is a fine example of legislating, ladies and gentlemen of the government. The major one here, of course, in order to satisfy your political clientele and every party franc, is that you continue to send the wrong messages everywhere. There is no more proof from yesterday's inquiry I mentioned to the committee, Mr Minister, of the Committee of the Regions, that when the refugees and immigrants themselves ask themselves, "Why did you enter Greece?" 76.3% says it was easy to cross the border and another 11% says, "Why were the Greek authorities not so strict". Refugees themselves say that. Not even the New Democracy, nor the Opposition as a whole. But is the current bill a prerequisite for the implementation of the recent agreement with the European Union? If we look at the time allowed for the procedure for examining the application, for the performance of the international protection regime, then the whole agreement is literally in the air. The provision for six months for the normal and three months for the rapid examination procedure - as provided for in Article 51 - simply does not meet the requirements of the agreement. The same applies to the Board of Appeal, since it follows from Article 86 that the urgency of the recommendation has been defined for up to six months. In fact, nothing is extremely urgent. This bill also provides for nothing to deal with the living conditions of refugees, neither with the processing of applications nor with the final implementation of the agreement with Europe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. It is, however, a bill that creates great expectations for many. First of all, to those who promise a post in the public, new allowances, more overtime, new positions of heads, divisions of directors, and even out-of-procedure APA. Secondly, to those who see in refugees a really great opportunity for a state-owned capitalism. If you were to bother discussing with the Independent Public Procurement Authority, you would see that public bodies have the opportunity to take advantage of national law on the award rules without the limitations of national directives, of course, while respecting the general principles, such as non-discrimination and transparency. Feeding and storage services, for example, are already included in a relevant annex to the Public Procurement Directives, under which they do not apply to services managing migration only basic publicity rules. And yet you didn't do that. And if you still discussed with each other, you would know that with the new procurement directives, which our country is expected to incorporate in April, these services, like health services, are subject to even more simplified procurement procedures. You have not done that either, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last 15 months we have experienced an unprecedented situation in Parliament. The MPs of the Coupling, the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks who support this government first vote and then worry. This work is once again being done. It has also been done in committee, and today we have heard it from the majority rapporteurs. In the situation in which the country finds itself, however, there is no room for political games in the name of humanism and solidarity. Day after day, the refugee is evolving into the most critical, the most unpredictable, factor for the social and political life of the country. The impoverishment of Idomeni, of the chaos of Piraeus and Chios, as we have seen today, is not, ladies and gentlemen, an example of humanism, as well as of the fantasy of all kinds of solidarity. The easy and convenient complaints for Europe do not help either refugees or the country to deal with the big issues, such as the ones it has in front of it. Find them first, decide what you want and we're here, in front of you to discuss and really find solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u322	Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for PASOK - Democratic Reconciliation. After that, Mrs Catrivanu will be given the floor. Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u323	I am a parliamentary representative of the PASOK Democratic Association. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have been through this several times in recent years. Developments, however, are rapid. Just last night - and we learn it this morning - in Chios there were serious episodes on the hot spot between Afghans and Syrians. Because I recently visited Chios, I can tell you that it may have been the most organized island in this process and before the hot spot. What happened last night and what the residents tell us was that there was a absence of the state in this process. Thousands of seven hundred are currently immigrants, while there are a thousand hundred with a thousand two hundred. At the moment that we are talking about five hundred pedestrian refugees head to the center of Chios to head to the port. We learn that the MAT platoon leaves Athens to go to Chios. I would ask the Government to inform the House of what is going on. Because we have - and we have - the One with the total absence of the state, which, from what we have understood, is an option, we have Piraeus where what happened on Wednesday night seems to be incapable of taking over the state and last night we had Chios. It can't go on. We'll have to deal with it. I present for the Minutes all the publications currently in existence for Chios. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have heard you at the outset say that it is a good deal. And in the debate we have had here on a topical question - on 21 March I think - you admitted that it is a difficult agreement. We have told you that the way it goes will be an endless decision. You also said today that the government is not happy with the situation in Idomeni and Piraeus - I imagine that it is not happy now with the situation in Chios - and that there will have to be an organization of the state. So the state is unorganized right now. In fact, that is what you said. And you have not given any timetable for all these actions. You said one more thing. You said that no party - and I would like to ask you to do so on behalf of the Democratic Alliance - had not understood the refugee issue until March. Remove it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u324	Until May.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u325	Until May. Remove it. And you know why I'm telling you to drop it. I have here a list of the actions we have taken. Your clarification for May is being heard at the moment. And we have done too much on this subject. You know that we have also been in your office - and at the beginning of November and now - and we have discussed this with the Head of the Democratic Partnership and we have done too much. And you know our mood - it was also said in the Council of Political Heads - to offer national understanding. So you will withdraw this expression because I think it is not something that is in line with the cooperation that we have had over the past period. Ladies and gentlemen, at the most critical turning point in our country, then, there is a visible risk that we will be completely isolated and trapped in the dual crisis: economic and social on the one hand, humanitarian and refugee on the other. The government continues to go on without a comprehensive and coherent plan, without consistency, unfortunately confirming our concern about the way in which the refugee and immigration crisis is faced: roughly, improperly, with many delusions. It was only a few days after the critical summit of 18 March, we pointed out that the problem was a common one, a European one. We pointed out that this decision is a small step which in no way constitutes the common immigration policy that the European Union urgently needs. And our criticism in the European Union is very hard and strict, and when we meet in the European Union with the Socialist Party and its representatives and in our country about the fact that a common European policy has not developed, which would have protected too much, for example in the common defence policy that we should have. There is no longer the margin for the European Union to move on with such slow steps. It is not possible for the refugee flows to be massive and for decisions to be slowed down to deal with fait accompli. We were therefore calling on the Greek Government to ensure the protection and transport of refugees to hospitality centres and, in addition to the vigilance of the state structures themselves, to take initiatives and take the lead in the immediate organisation and cooperation of all actors. Because we saw that the decision of the meeting in many parts of it is simply a wish. It does not clearly foresee whether and when refugees will be relocated to the countries of the European Union, so that many thousands of people are in danger of being caught in our country. We understood the complexity of the agreement and told you, because it requires Turkey's cooperation, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the essential contribution of the Member States and the competent services of the European Union. You agreed, our country agreed, in rapid asylum procedures, which it is not ready to implement. We said at the first moment that the Greek Prime Minister at the press conference on the agreement was content with the triumph. He had said, and I told you in plenary, that if there are countries which do not want to take part in the distribution of refugees, then they should contribute financially. For us, it is a statement that demonstrates the urgency and carelessness with which the government is dealing with such serious issues. And if most countries want to contribute financially rather than to a fair distribution of refugees, what will happen? Will everyone be locked up in our country? After all, you have recently said that our country cannot accept all refugees and become a Lebanon of Europe in order to obtain just financial aid. In no case, Minister, you have not taken into account the proposals that the Democratic Reconciliation has tabled to all parties to deal with the problem. We visited critical times and Idomeni and Viktoria Square. We met with you several times - and I told you before - and we made speeches at the previous summit in Brussels and twice at the Council of Political Heads we contributed to the national common line on the refugee issue. Now you must respond to the points that were ineffective in the negotiations. So you are calling us in an emergency procedure, as you call it, with a bill that comes in the form of an emergency, which has nothing to do with the agreement signed between the European Union and Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to vote - and a number of colleagues have said - a piece of legislation which, as has been said, contains fifty-six regulations, which are not ready. That is what we understand today. So you know very well that the refugee situation is extremely serious and we want you to face this situation here today too. The bill we are discussing certainly fails to meet its ambitious objectives. It creates various questions in relation to the centres for immigrants, the separation of refugees and immigrants and other such issues. It is a bill consisting of eighty-nine articles structured in seven parts. On 8 February 2015, 14 months ago, the Prime Minister announced in his programme statements the Ministry of Migration. To date, for fourteen months, there was virtually no autonomous, modern ministry with the necessary staffing and responsibilities. This bill attempts to organize this Ministry in the form of an emergency in one day. This procedure is not serious. I would like, for example, to express our commitment to the enormous flexibility given to the conclusion of public contracts by way of derogation from the existing provisions and without the opinions of the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority on all the costs of managing the refugee crisis. Apart from that, I will tell you what the Scientific Service of the Parliament and the role that the Court of Auditors should have in this regard. It stipulates that works, supplies and services contracts concluded by the public, public or public undertakings and having a budget expenditure exceeding EUR 1 million are subject to compulsory legality checks carried out by the Court of Auditors - this should be done normally - and the report points out that the exclusion of the Court of Auditors’ audit in relation to the award of public contracts introduces an exception to the rule laid down in Article 35 of Law No 4129/2013 in application of Article 98(1) of the Constitution. That's what this is about. If you do not want to reply to us, at least answer the Scientific Service of the Parliament and the specific one it refers to. I will not go into the part of the draft law that fully integrates into the Greek legislation of the revised European directive on common European procedures. However, I shall dwell on Article 56 of this, which refers to the concept of safe country of origin - we are talking about Turkey now, we shall speak clearly here - in which the designation of a third country as safe cannot be done in law - should we say this - given that flexibility is required due to changing conditions in third countries. For example, some years ago Syria may have been a safe country. So we should not play a game here about whether it is safe or not safe. That wouldn't get into the law. Let's make it clear to the MPs. And because the President of the House mentioned before and I want to make a statement...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Theocharopoulos, would you like your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u327	Yes, Madam President, please, I also want my second language. Thank you. You also said that there had been no mention of the issue of refugees coming, this particular problem. I am referring to what the President of Parliament has said. I have this feature here: Since 2013, the port has called on the municipalities to propose reception areas for refugees, namely some municipalities have responded and some municipalities have not responded. The UN was calling for an emergency action plan. The UNHCR documents to our country are revealing about the constant increase in refugee and migration flows. Questions in the House? I have here in front of me questions from 2014 and 2013 former Members of DRMAR, for example, where the port was calling the municipalities - and there are these elements - because there will be a very large and massive flow of refugees. All of these elements, therefore, show that there were specific calls, that the refugee flows are significantly increased. This was, of course, seen in its very large dimension over the last year. There is no doubt about that, but there have been calls since then. And, of course, we must say that the implementation, as it seems, of the relocation of sixty thousand refugees, despite the decision to relocate sixty thousand refugees. But together we were on a committee - Mr Xydakis was also then - when you remember, a figure for the relocation of few people to Luxembourg. I told you, then, not to move on to such inconveniences, because you will be exposed, because it is not compulsory, it is optional. And badly it wasn't mandatory. In other words, you did not succeed in negotiating to be compulsory. And yet, you have proceeded with a process which I think in the long term proves to be exposing the government and, of course, the European Union. There is no doubt about that, that the relocation system did not work. Of course, of the sixty thousand in the new decisions we went to the seventy - two thousand refugees. Minister, Article 60 finds us opposing. It is, perhaps, the most problematic article - I would like to emphasise this - on which the implementation of the European Union - Turkey agreement is based. Because the problem has to do with the necessary procedural guarantees that must be provided today in order to avoid the sloppy massive remuneration of asylum seekers, or discards in the same way. While, according to the directive, the first three paragraphs regulate asylum procedures, a specific procedure is laid down in the fourth paragraph and the guarantees in the previous articles cannot be guaranteed. Of course, I note the curiosity which I mentioned before, and the lack of seriousness, because today we are talking about refugee in the form of urgency. We would therefore not be able to analyse everything, as we have been called on in many respects. We're talking about anything specific we can talk about right now. The attitude of many government actors has shown that in recent years. Where should I start and where should I stop? From the statement by Mr Baltas on an honorable situation in Islam? It's not an honorable situation of Assassin. And if it was a mistake, if he thought it was a mistake, he wouldn't mention it. It is, however, an ideological background of Idomeni, Viktoria Square, an ideological background that exists - I do not know if there is any in the government, but there is some - and in general the drama suffered by refugees and immigrants in the country. It is the logic that humanity is the total absence of the state, since if there is even a dubious organisation, a coercive coordination, it will be a violation of rights. It's not like that. These are not left-wing positions, and I hope you do not consent in this context. If I do not remember any more statements, for example, that it is Dachau on the one hand and Hilton on the other hand and the other, or that on the other, which we had recently in plenary. Of course, we do not ask for tear gas or chaos. Because this was also said at previous meetings by Ministers. We're not asking. What we are calling for is peaceful transfer of refugees to hospitality centres. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to make a responsible opposition and criticism of the government at the moment, as is our role. You have brought an agreement here, which, despite the fact that a bureaucratic mechanism is being created which does not work, is part of the agreement which we said is a first step forward. That is why we will continue on the national line drawn up in the Heads' Conference. We shall vote in principle on this draft law. But we won't give you a white check. We will monitor closely and control the consequences of implementing this agreement, which could be much better and could be more practical. We will also continue constantly to contribute - in Greece and Europe - to what we have been doing all this time responsibly, for greater efficiency, with respect for the lawfulness, the refugees and the basic principles of humanism with which the European Union has been structured. This is how we understand the responsible opposition. We want you to talk about what we have then talked about in your dentistry, about what is happening now and how the government will deal with it, because there is no other government at this time. You must tell us how to deal with Chios and what is happening right now. Of course, I imagine that you will also have an answer to the question that there are anti-population forces who have been responsible for this matter all the time and are making concrete proposals to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u328	Please for respect for time. You've been over the time of your dentistry, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mrs Catrivanu, you have the floor. Then Mr. Dendias will speak. We will be going to Parliamentary spokesman - speaking to have a variety. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Madam President. Let me say that the debate here and what has been heard has brought me memories of the past. It sounded like we've become a big Amydale. Because I have been to Amygdaleza many times, I cannot remember the minors who were being held, the asylum seekers, the victims of torture, the Syrians we found, the psalmist conditions, the inhumane conditions, the uprisings that took place in Amygdaleza and every Amygdaleza that existed, the suicides then made, the two million convicts of our country that we have for these conditions. I think of Xenophile business, seropositive stigmatisation and so on. There was a multitude of events. Also, because it sounds a lot about closed centers, detention, etc., I would say that the law that was in force, adopted by the New Democracy, n. 3907, provides alternative forms of detention for people under return. And since no such forms of detention have ever been created, the European Commission has launched a process of sanctions against Greece, which has not taken such alternative detention measures, which is open to centres, which we are hearing and appalling. Let us tell you that Italy, let us say, has a very large population of refugees and immigrants, has four hundred in detention centres. Finland, which has accepted two hundred thousand, has seventy. Don't do it like that. There's the myth of detention. I'm coming to the bill. I want to focus on two issues: One is its content and its specific provisions, and the second is the framework within which it comes to be implemented and voted, a framework that says a large refugee wave and an agreement between the European Union and Turkey. I will start with the bill, which is essentially a bill that upgrades and restructures asylum and reception according to international law and Union law. This is a draft law that in principle incorporates Directive 2013/32 of the European Parliament and of the Council. It is a bill, the work for which has been started by the first government of SYRIZA and has nothing to do with the agreement, except in an article at the moment, the abbreviation of days for issuing asylum in exceptional cases. No other article concerns the agreement. It comes to work at a time when the agreement is being implemented, but it has nothing to do with the agreement. I will say his positive elements, which are very important. We have the establishment of a General Secretariat for Reception and Identification, which has an expanded role and appropriate tools to address the needs of new entrants. The possibility of operating offices or stacks of asylum within the host centres and hosting structures and the possibility of setting up distinct areas for the stay of vulnerable groups, such as unaccompanied minors. It provides for an increase in organic positions from four hundred forty-three to seven hundred fifty-three. The Asylum Service and the Appeals Authority are subject to the Ministry of the Interior and not the Ministry of Public Order no longer. The Asylum Service is strengthened by increasing organic positions from two to thirty-two to five hundred twenty. We also have the support of regional offices and mobile stairways. Residence permits are granted for humanitarian reasons - asylum seekers - in other words - who are applicants for international protection for more than five years - up to fifteen years - are in Greece, that is to say they have the prerequisites and must be authorized for humanitarian reasons. I have seen the legislative improvements you are making, Mr Minister, and from where it was automatically being given, according to what the bill provides, you have put the words 'the humanitarian regime may be granted'. We would like to leave the "maybe" and remain as the bill had, because these people have the prerequisites and why the administration will also be loaded. Also, let us say that this so-called "backlog" has been created by previous governments, and even we have a condemnation of that, and we have also a commitment from Mr. Nodes since 2013 that the situation that had not been solved and that this "backlog" will continue, which we have to deal with and I would ask that our proposal be accepted automatically, such as your original proposal, and not "were possible". I'm on it. The Appeals Authority is being upgraded to this bill and its independence is being seriously strengthened. I shall say a few points which I consider to be inconsistent, and there are some problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Tolerance, please. It is laid down in the bill, in Article 60(4), that in exceptional cases of major arrivals and when people are applying for asylum, we have a shorter deadlines for 14 days. I think that this is very problematic for applications to be examined, for them not to be examined surfaceally and for them to be rejected and for simple reasoning to say that when we have increased flows, we need more time, more staff, more working hours and not abbreviation of these issues. I would also like the asylum seeker's hearing to be restored to the second degree last night. In any case, where the asylum seeker so wishes, he may go to the second and border, i.e. in each case. Let me say that I'm troubled by the storage of open temporary reception and hospitality facilities placed at a private company. I'm not staying on this. Let me go ahead with what we have in the bill the notion of a'safe third country', in Article 56 on the basis of Article 38 of the directive. But let me say that we understand that Turkey does not fulfil any of the conditions of the law when we read it. That's what international organizations say, because we have arbitrary arrests, we have re-propelled Syrians. Yesterday we had a complaint from GUARDIAN and from other forms that sixteen Syrians in four months, including three children, were murdered at the time they crossed the border. After the deal, thirty of an Afghans in danger were relocated to Kabul. It's not a safe third country. It does not have any preconditions, nor do it in practice, and that is why refugees should not be returned. I will now also say that this bill is called upon to apply at a time when we have signed an agreement between the European Union and Turkey. This is an agreement which both international organisations and humanitarian organisations state is a step backwards in the logic of international refugee asylum and the Geneva Convention. Why? Because when we have 91% of refugees flows, we are basically called upon to send back refugees. So I say this to you that we must resist international and constitutional legitimacy and the principles of the protection of human rights with a weapon. And not to forget that the flow of 33% coming is children, 33% are women, 33% are men, up - down. These people must accept and support them safely and with dignity and solidarity, not send refugee back, not retreat and trust in the solidarity that society has shown so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u330	Finish it, Mrs. Catrivanu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u331	Of course, we must remain firm that what we are proposing is a broad resettlement from Turkey, not seventy-two thousand - seventy-two thousand are crustaceans, I do not even know whether Turkey would follow it, but I think it is crumbs, when we have three million in Turkey - and analogously, of course, in the countries of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Teddy, you have the floor. Then there's Mr. Georgantas. That's the show.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is an extremely important matter. It is literally and national and universal. In this sense, I believe - and I believe - that tones should be low and that there should be a search for ground for understanding, understanding and above all for a solution. I will say two things about the New Democracy government, because a lot has been heard. I take too much in ignorance of the situation or as a matter of urgency to justify today's totally unacceptable, shameful, country-based and abusive human rights reality. Ladies and gentlemen, what I would say about reducing migratory flows in our own government's space is a little important. I handled this issue, as you well know, for two years. But the figures are clear. Flows decreased by 82%. Evros, in addition to the refugees, was completely insured and the issue was moved to a small percentage towards the Aegean islands, but the main thing is that the returns were multiplied, that is, those people who returned to the countries of origin, since they were not entitled to asylum. I'll talk about the asylum a minute later. The facilities that were created then, because in 2012 the issue was received without any facility to support it, they were installations that were fully controlled to comply with international regulations and to protect human rights. During the operation of the Amgdaleza they were created at times, especially not in the period until June 2014, but after June 2014 and especially when our government left, some issues and complaints. There was, if I remember correctly, an uprising and it is certain that there were internal problems. In general, however, the system was operating in an excellent way. Because there is no reason to believe me, I will first present the press release from the visit of Sweden Commissioner, Mrs Malstrom, at the end of 2013, which characterises the country's overall system and the press release, as well as Mrs Cecilias Malstrom, in February 2014 for the first-rate committee, also praiseworthy. I do not take the time to read to you what the Commissioner says. I note that the Commissioner inspected the premises every two months. Mrs Malstrom's tweets say: 'Meeting with head of first reception services, impressed by the work', '...enhanced by work'. Perhaps you could consider the central left, Mrs Malstrom, having some sympathy to the Greek Government. This is why I present the press release from the visit of the Dutch Minister for Migration in 2013, which also states "impressed by the Greek authorities", "pressed". You will, of course, tell me that the Dutch may have been able to influence them positively. This is why I am presenting the communication from the Executive Director of FRONTEX dated 17 October 2013: “Successful estanblishing of International Centres in Evros”. Because this may not like you, I also present the press release issued by EASO, the European Asylum Office, after the visit of Executive Director Visser: "We needed a positive response and we found it. Two years ago there were shortcomings, but Greece is now on the excellent road." I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So please, before condemning the past, try to check it out, and before repeating the stereotypes, investigate them. No reality, never in the history of the planet, has been perfect. However, that reality of the mud of Idomenis, of the misery of Piraeus and of the violence in Chios, provides an absolute honour to the Hellenic Republic, contrary to your current situation - which is totally unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, what you have achieved is a tragedy and I sincerely tell you. And I say it, who tried, to the extent I could, for the first time I could, to advise you discreetly, outside the cameras, anyone who wanted to hear me - and the former minister - to avoid this tragedy. Because it doesn't matter how much we do a memorial. It's important to catch up. And because I have heard a lot about the country's condemnation of human rights violations by the Court of Justice of Strasbourg, please very much, first check the dates of the violations and, secondly, observe: Greece was sentenced to the detention in police detention before 2012 and was rightly condemned. There is not a single decision on the pre-repeal centres. And if anyone has a decision, please present it and testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u334	When you were Minister, people were kept in detention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u335	If anyone has a judgment of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg for the period 2012 to June 2014 on pre-repeal centres and then - by the way - please testify to it. You don't, because it just doesn't exist. But I am going to present to you, unfortunately, for our country - in the years to come, the condemnation of the terrible conditions in Idomeni, Chios, Piraeus, and where else you have left this terrible spectacle to evolve. Because you need to know that Greece now has a constitutional obligation for these people, who were erroneously found within its borders. I am sincerely sorry, Mr President of the House - I say this for you - because you are not informed. And I would sincerely ask you, because of your institutional role and the personal respect I have for you and my absolute conviction that what you say it from the heart and because you think it is sincere, you must have checked it out. Unfortunately, Mr President, there was also planning for refugees. The project is called "NAH", located in the Ministry of Public Order and is a huge project, which had been preconsented with the European Union and the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, the competent Commissioner, Kristelina Georgieva, and provided every hundred thousand for the case of sudden entry. Not only did you not use this plan but the government ignores its existence until today. It contained an absolute calculation of water portions, blankets, tents, location, cost, from whom we would take the money. Idemi will always haunt the Left, your Left. Because you have simply been completely inappropriate to deal with the matter. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just tell you, your government didn't know what it was doing and took people to her neck. And because you have the impression that you have always been in good intentions, because at least that's something we need to discuss, I want to remind you of something? Most of you weren't there then. You know - I'm sorry about 'I', I don't like it - but I made the Asylum Service with huge personal troubles. Because until then, the asylum applications were dealt with by the police and we had an asylum protection index of 0,01%, and we reached 9%. And when I brought a provision here to help you, you did not vote for it. She said that Mrs Catrivanou - whose motives I take on board - for open structures. Can I tell you something else? When our government, on my own government, created the first open structure in Agia Varvara, would you like me to tell you which SYRIZA official sat ahead and prevented its operation? Would it help us name names? Ladies and gentlemen, you've done a mess! We are now coming to the agreement: we, Minister, supported the agreement as far as we can. But I have to tell you that this agreement cannot and will not work. First of all, if there was something that should not have come to be voted on here, it is NATO's presence in the Aegean, because this is a national domination. It is not included in the framework of our NATO membership agreement that the work now undertaken by NATO has been commissioned by the Prime Minister for reason, not because he negotiated on this but because he was simply called and imposed on him. We've never been informed. Slowly some operational design was created. I'm telling you, this can't work. I am not going to continue with the stereotype "the first left NATO brings to Greece". You've heard it many times, you know, I know how it bothers you. We at the end of the day do not have any disagreement with NATO. But the other thing that exists in the agreement - and I must tell you that this is a tragic legal error - is the question of the readmission of people to Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, two things are happening: or Turkey is a safe country or Turkey is not a safe country. If Turkey is a safe country, then it is not badly included and you do not say so. If Turkey, as many colleagues have said, is not a safe country, tell me which special right you are making an agreement and returning people to the non-safe country. In both cases you are convicted, completely condemnable and legally in the Court of Justice of Strasbourg, but also in common, because you cannot have both. Ladies and gentlemen, I tell you, remember me, this agreement is not going to work. Now let's go to the law. I'm sorry to read this piece of legislation. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Madam President, if you have patience and kindness, can I also use the time of my dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u336	Yes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u337	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this piece of legislation, first of all, is a useless piece of legislation. He doesn't need us. There is no provision positive in this piece of legislation. In any case, we can choose one or two articles, if you like. And we will try to find one, two articles, to vote on them, to show you that where we want to support any - even mortgage - national effort. This piece of legislation offers nothing but new structures that do not need, complete opacity. And be careful, because you're voting, but you're not co-responsible and it's a shame with your vote to allow opaque. Thirty-three hundred new organic positions! What's this? Why are you doing this? By the urgency procedure, bread, a hundred and fifty pages in one night with eight legislative improvements that you brought, Minister, of which most are wrong, with incorrect renumbers? We're looking for the articles. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These are disgraceful for a civilized country! It's a shame and you're charging her this shame! Why are you doing this? What for? Who pressured you to bring this piece of legislation in urgent procedure, a hundred and fifty pages in one night with more than eighty articles? Who? Who do you obey if I may? And why can you - the government do whatever it wants - accept this, ladies and gentlemen? Why do you accept it? Why - if you want - our own mistakes in this area, instead of restricting them - and you rightly condemned them - you multiply them, you approve them and you vote in favour of them? Why are you doing this? I will mention two issues - and I will end with them - which I would ask you to look into in the legislation. The first concerns the issue of irregular entry into the country. Ladies and gentlemen, be honest with yourself. Tell me whether it is legal or illegal to enter Greece or any country in the world without permission, because the procedure called "uncircumcised entry" does not exist. And if you think that you are addressing unmarked people and that we do not read the European directives and international texts, you will allow me to tell you that you are making a great mistake. But I'm afraid you haven't read it. And I'm directing you to them. Our colleague, Mr Kefaloniannis, and our rapporteur, Mr Kikilias, Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Georgantas, will soon tell you. But should we take Directive 2008/115? Can I read her expression, which Greek legislation has also repeated? It reads: 'for returning illegal holding'. It says 'illegally' and not 'irregularly'. Do you want me to read to you the Schengen provisions in the Greek text? I would like to say: '...that the borders have been illegally crossed'. There is no European legislative text, at least that I should know and that the country has ratified or that in a directive which has not been ratified by the country, the 'immediately crossed' borders. This is your invention, and it is obviously the government's return, Minister, to the protests of the fifty-three. I would like to say this: an article of the Criminal Code is formally deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u338	The 'irregular flowers' and the 'irregular income put in', how do you translate them, Mr Teddy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u339	Mrs Catrivanu, we won't have a dialogue right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u340	Mrs Catrivanu, I beg your pardon, my colleague has tabled the instructions. You want to read them? You obviously don't know them. If you want us to do translation exercises, we can do them. It doesn't exist, I say again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u341	All Strasbourg refers to 'irregular'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u342	I say again that I, first of all, did not interrupt you, but I allow you to be rude, because I like you. Secondly, on the basis of sympathy, I would like to say that the directives are two. Read both, refer to ‘illegal’, ‘illegally’ and not ‘irregular’, ‘irregularly’. Now, the texts of the non-governmental organisations you are dealing with and reading, are your issues, keep them. I come to the other issue, to the economic question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u343	I am talking about Strasbourg, the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u344	Yes, sir. Mrs Catrivanu is addressing the chairman of the Committee on Immigration of the Council of Europe to me and she is taking care of him! Let's see where else we're going! Let's move on. Absorption of Community funds: We all know that the country is in an economic crisis. Right? That's right. You're supposed to be, Minister, that the first thing your government would do is, where he can get money to meet needs, get it. You found in 2015 - you were not a Minister at the time - a working European programme-sharing service at the Ministry of Public Order, the Ministry of Public Affairs. Was it a bad agency? She's judged by her absorptions. It had from 93% to 84%, depending on the schedule. It was one of the top - if not the top - of European programmes absorbing service in Greek public administration. What did you do? You made use of it, you'd have been waiting. You raised her, someone else would have waited. You rewarded her, a third person, who believes in such things in Greek public administration, would say. Oh, no. You shut it down. What did you do with her? First you waited seven months. Then you set up another agency, whose initials are a little more, the Ministry of Interior. What did D.C.P.A. do to the interior ministry seven months later? Nothing at all. Nothing at all! The Greek taxpayer pays. Is the time going on and what are you doing, ladies and gentlemen, with this legislation? You don't even activate the service you've been building for eight, nine months, which has done nothing. But you are making two new services to another Ministry this time, to the Ministry of Finance, which - you will laugh - one has the initial EAGF and the other has the original EAFRDTEAP. Ladies and gentlemen, are these things serious? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Is this government a serious government? Is this government supposed to stay and manage the fates of this country in crisis? This government can manage migration? Are we serious? Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a matter of conscience too many times. We saw the disaster, we said, but we were adopting the national, social and patriotic obligation not to call for elections, hoping that we can convince you to follow an elementaryly sufficient road and help us, where we could achieve something. We also dismantled Greek society. That is why I sincerely ask the government, which is represented, if you please, to resign and, in any case, to come to the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u345	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u346	Here you go, Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u347	For two minutes, Madam President, if I may, I would like to speak about a report he has made - and rightly so - by Mr Denkias, not in general. The debate that is taking place is important because, in essence, it is also a five-year review on this subject, on what one would say, a great focus of strategy and policy on this subject. At least we need to reach agreement or to record the different views. I sent an invitation to submit, if there is, any text which, on the part of the European authorities or anywhere, warned of the unprecedented war developments in the first quarter of 2015 in the destabilised Middle East, which caused this explosion of immigration, refugees, fundamental flows. I'm talking about the explosion. I am not talking about the possible displacement of the number from seventy-five thousand to thirty thousand, which was within the estimates and agencies and the Greek Government. I'm talking about how we got to the million. Obviously that was not the case, nor is there such a text to be tabled by the Commissioner responsible, Mr Avramopoulos, as was the case with anyone else. Mr Denkias referred to the 'HUI' project. This project simply belongs to the category of projects and is of all use in relation to the storms that may exist in general and in order to mobilise civil protection to deal with them. It has nothing to do with Europe's political and strategic issue, to what extent it has been decided to absorb and manage this issue. On the contrary, there was the 'POSEIDES' project, which I do not want to mention, and of course I do not want to mention the undertakings in North Africa, the coastal - deterrent operations, let me say, at the same time, to the limits of the military operations decided at the time - were precisely to do with the fact that Libya was broken up and that there was a hit on ships - not on boats - both on slaves and not just on board. It was in the context of a number of decisions, which are relatively gray for recent history, and the umbilical cord was cut from there. Both NATO and the European Union were then analysed. Vice-President Christodoulopoulos knows this perfectly, because she participated in these meetings. Such a prevention plan could not be implemented on the coast of the Aegean. It had nothing to do with the country's position. So I want to say this right. It is a second invitation, precisely because the debate is serious and Mr. Dendias has kept his opinion at this level. And the Minister said very serious things. It is good in today's debate to be clear. I want to make a second invitation. To present the draft of the then government of 2012-2013, the then Prime Minister, presented at the European Union Special Session on Migration Flows, which was a project, which was presented to the Greek Parliament and had been denounced by the then official opposition and which, as a title on the substance, had "Subject prevention of the countries of the South". No relationship to liability from the rest of Europe for any provisions on migration-refugee flows and their absorption. It was radically contrary to this strategy that was then presented and was on the table. On the contrary, there has been a call for the countries of the South to prevent migration and refugee flows towards Europe, namely, the implementation of Europe fortress, in the most perilous way since then. That was the strategy. We had discussed it here and I think it is good that the New Democracy, for two years now, has been a European-wide dividend, like the People's Party, and there is a consensus on this issue. That's for restoring the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u348	Madam President, can I have the floor for a second? You won't deny me that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u349	Here you go, Mr. Dendia, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u350	Thank you very much for understanding. Always when I talk to the President of Parliament, tons are the recipients, and I think we can end up somewhere. But I would ask him to give me the confidence of custody. When I say something, Mr President-in-Office, you must not ignore the fact that I am well aware of it. The draft, ladies and gentlemen, was not a general plan to prevent any case. It was a special plan for Syria's refugee flows. That's what it was about. This was designed as a scenario and there was agreement with the then Commissioner for Civil Protection, Mr Kristelina Georgieva. There was also a competent officer of the Hellenic Firefighting Officer, who had been indebted to design, contact with the European Union and overall coordination of the Civil Protection Authorities of Europe. So as to the fact that there was no plan, that was the case. The second is that the Syrian flows had not been predicted. They were predicted. It was said earlier that the Port House was looking for accommodation places in all the islands. And our purpose, because we were expecting a subject, was every 100 thousand research. You realise the size of the preparation that you have completely ignored. Thirdly, the action plan, which the President probably refers to, was submitted by the country and approved by the European Commission and implemented. What he's saying is wrong. It never happened. I participated in the negotiations both with Cyprus and with Malta and with Italy. I met with the three Heads of State, with the then Prime Minister. Our agreement mainly concerned the allocation of funds for the period 2014-2020, which was at the expense of the countries of the South, and I had already predicted then that they would be missing with the then data, after 2016, 700 million euros. We have never been consulted, and we have never had a job to consult, Mr President, Mr Voutsi, with Italy to prevent influxes from Libya. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. The problem is this. Previously there were four routes of access to Europe: through Spain from Morocco, through Lampeduza and Italy from Libya, through Greece from Turkey and through Bulgaria from Turkey. Thanks to the policy followed by this government and thanks - I must say why we must be honest and clear in this - and in Chancellor Merkel's announcement, all these flows are now united and crossing the Aegean. That is a national problem. You have a huge share of responsibility for this. However, can you put forward a serious proposal, see how we deal with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u351	I will ask, although it is a little improper, why very briefly to say the following. I, when I became Minister for Migration Policy in Genaris, but in fact on 27 March, until April I had as Secretary of the Social Cohesion Department, now Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Syrigos, who was the previous Secretary. He didn't leave. I kept him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u352	He wasn't a secretary. It was an internal ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u353	He wasn't a secretary. He was in another ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u354	The Ministry of Interior. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Georgiadis was responsible at the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u356	So Mr. Syrigos sent me all the papers from the "NAH" programme, what you say, which was the statistical data of the incoming and, of course, because we had daily cooperation, I asked him for proposals for anything that existed in connection with the influx of migrants and refugees. However, there was no proposal, because the 'NAH' programme had been prepared together with the Civil Protection Office...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u357	The General Secretariat of Civil Protection was, but fine, that's all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u358	...and I knew it very well, Mr. Dendia, but it doesn't matter now. What I wanted to say - and here we were in this House at the time - is that you had not made a specific proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u359	You're wrong with me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u360	The main issue, however, you mentioned, is that, when we took over for the irregular and the illegal, there was already a prosecuting order at the border points, which told all prosecutors to refrain from criminal prosecution from entering. We didn't do it. There was to you, to Mr. Kikilia. What did that mean? That he was decriminalized.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u361	It has nothing to do with this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u362	What does that have to do with anything, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u363	No, I'm explaining something to you. That means that the entrance was decriminalized...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u364	It was an administrative measure, not criminal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u365	It was practically decriminalised because of the large flows and in practice the different treatment of refugees and immigrants was abolished and it was given a month for voluntary departure to the immigrants and six months for refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u366	Do you know the difference between the administrative and criminal measure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u367	I didn't change that. They were your circulars, along with the circulars of justice. That's all we need to explain. Well, now Mr. Georgantas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u368	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the last positions, it becomes clear once again that we have not reached the causes of the problem in order to be able to move forward with its treatment. We are even here today disagreeing on the registration of the problem and on what the problem has done so. I have to say this, Madam President. In relation to whether migration flows could be predicted or not, what is absolute and cannot be called into question, is that, in 2014 and 2015, which you had the responsibility of the migrant-refugee, we have an increase in entrys from Greece, which is unlikely. In 2014, on the basis of official European data, two hundred and eighty thousand refugees and immigrants have entered Europe. The seventy-two thousand have passed from Greece, that is, one quarter, Mr President. In 2015, nine hundred and eleven thousand passed by Greece, when in total in Europe it spent about fifty thousand. That's right. This shows that while in 2014 one of the four entering Europe, one of the ten crossed by Greece, in 2015, nine crossed by Greece. That means something and it certainly didn't happen on its own. But I would like to say something more important. Even today, if we ask one - one of the SYRIZA Members who believe that a distinction must be made between refugees and illegal immigrants, I doubt that the majority will really want a distinction to be made and that there is a different approach. I believe that most of the SYRIZA Members will even today say that the treatment of illegal immigrants should be at the same level as refugees. Unfortunately, this assumption, rather than this common conviction, which the SYRIZA Members do not question here - and I challenge the next speakers to state it clearly - is entering the draft law to ratify it. It was quite right to say that in Article 46 we have, for the first time, the elimination of hindrance for anyone illegally coming to the country. Madam President, the Circular, which was in existence by the prosecutor, said about the abstention of criminal prosecution. However, the detention of the illegally entering the country was compulsory on the basis of administrative provisions and then followed by their expulsion. Never in the past years has anyone ever thought of, who is illegally entering the country to let him go. There were either criminal or administrative measures. At present, in addition to this uniformity, in fact, of illegal immigrants and refugees in relation to their asylum application, we have been waiting here today for provisions on closed-ended centres. We don't see any of this. On the contrary, what we see is the unacceptable Article 22, with which, ladies and gentlemen, seven and a half thousand applications, which had been made in previous years for humanitarian reasons, in order to stay in the country, who have not been able to pass through the secondary assessment, to be accepted. Seven and a half thousand illegally entering the country right now take leave of residence. Is that simple to pass it with a two-series layout in Article 22? [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this is very serious. You know, these legislative initiatives are arrangements that have no return. These seven and a half thousand people are staying in Greece. There are provisions in relation to hosting and hosting centres. Mrs Catrivanou mentioned it, with which one might disagree with her thinking, but she certainly does not have the right to say so. Mrs Catrivanu came today with absolute openness and said: this bill is not linked to the agreement. We'll agree, Mrs. Catrivanu. That's right. Some arrangements are coming for the hosting and hosting centres. I begin with this: Firstly, their protection can also be entrusted to private security services. I don't know how much we can accept that. Secondly, the governors of these centres, like the Director of the Asylum Service, must be personalities of unknown prestige, i.e. either civil servants or individuals. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you here that a month ago we had an acute controversy about the register of public officials. That is where you said that they should only be civil servants. Today, why do you give the governors of host and hosting centres the opportunity to be a private sector, a professional or a scientist? Are there others left to take care of? Also in relation to these storage centres, feeding and all relevant costs are foreseen. It is absolutely unacceptable that all these costs should be regarded as urgent. Surely some up to a certain amount may be unpredictable. But we now know the problem. We have it in front of us and we can deal with it. It shall not be possible, as referred to in Article 12 and Article 19, by way of derogation from any general or special provision, for the Ministry of National Defence or any other competent body to take over any expenditure related to the feeding, storage and general services provided to storage centres. That is unacceptable. The problem is now known for two or three months. Can they not enter the well-known procedures, which have transparency, so that no shadow is left in society through this process? But how do you want to do this when you come and legislate effectively and strengthen the position of civil society actors? Instead of putting a brake on the activity of non-governmental organisations, we come today and legislate and institutionalise and enable civil society actors to take responsibility for the functioning of such a centre. Who's gonna do the evaluation? Who's gonna do the certification? It's all over the time. It's all vague. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Can I also tell you something about non-governmental organisations or any humanitarian organisations trying to engage in these activities? I do not doubt and I do not think there are some who really provide good services. Is there a barrier going through here today to be credible against society? To have the right to act and to identify only those who had a function, only those who had an activity three years ago. Because they really were that, with unselfish criteria, they were involved in such a process. Whatever happened five weeks ago and five days ago, this alone is a suspicious event. Do you accept that provision now, Mr Ministers? Only those non-governmental organisations that were active three years ago can be involved in taking over these services. I think we owe it to society, to a society that is falling and which is waiting today for us to manage this money, which is a lot. There is already a great deal to be said in all societies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u369	They have to be certified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u370	Let us decide here today, Minister, on non-governmental organisations that had three years' activity, not the ones that took place three weeks ago and three days ago. Why shouldn't we? Does anyone have anything to fear? Let's do it. We owe it to the citizens. We owe it to the refugees. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to say a word about Idoed. What they're talking about about is that she has to empty tomorrow, it can't be done. Adequate structures to accommodate those in Idomeni do not currently exist in the country. There aren't any. There must be and then they must convince those who left them up there so that they can go to these structures. Structures to get the twelve thousand of Idomen and the five thousand of Piraeus, or seventeen thousand of people, are not currently in the country to absorb them. This problem must be solved quickly, because it is a disgrace to everyone. And only this shame should make you not talk about the previous period. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. Mr Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened carefully just now to Mr Voutsi, who referred to the war in Syria, to the responsibilities of the European Union, to destabilisation of the region as the main cause of the refugee flows, thereby responding to the criticism made by the New Democracy to the SYRIZA Government - ANEL that they are responsible for increased refugee flows. Indeed, war is the main cause of the increasing waves of refugees in recent years and, of course, the attitude of countries of the European Union, which open up the cannabis according to their economic and geopolitical interests. Of course, there is the question: Is NATO involved in the Aegean at the invitation of the Greek Government working for or against destabilisation? Because only the naives - and indeed very naive - now believe that NATO's involvement in the Aegean were to deal with or solve the refugee problem. NATO was involved and related to developments in Syria immediately. That is why, and under the responsibility of the Greek Government, this problem is exacerbated. It also matters - not only historical but also politically important - because it opened this issue, to remember what SYRIZA said since 2011, when all these events began in Syria. I read in particular: 'Five months after the start of the 'Syrian Spring', when the Syrian people give an admirable lesson of courage and resistance to a barbaric regime, the international community, the United States and Europe remain silent. Now the international community, led by the UN and the EU, must isolate the bloodshed regime, supporting the opposition forces." Parent: The opposition forces in Syria were those, the jihadists and everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u373	It wasn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u374	Shortly thereafter: 'The European Union must take a lead on a front that will give President Assad to understand that the time has come for the end of the titles, to take an initiative towards the people of Syria'. SYRIZA in 2011 did not only adopt to antenna all the pretexts that were exploited in the next period for the interventions of the European Union, the United States, NATO, in Syria, but at that time, with what Mrs Durou said at the time - in charge of foreign policy - he headed and blamed the international community for failing to deal with this issue. This is important in order for some conclusions to be drawn. In relation to the bill, there is one question: why is this bill now coming and indeed under the urgency procedure? To solve the problems of refugees? To deal with the issue of their caging and to make it easier for these people to go to their countries of destination? To ensure human living conditions for those people who the Greek state, the Greek Government - not from incapacity, as some people say, but consciously - has left them to the mercy and immunity of the non-governmental organizations in Piraeus, Idomeni and elsewhere? And you have consciously left them at mercy, in order not to be blamed by the European Union, by your partners, that you are undermining the decision of the European Union, creating a state infrastructure in Idomeni, and that you are pressing for opening the borders at the time when you signed for their closure. And while you signed a border closure, Mr. Tsipras, after the summits, made fun of the Greek people by saying that the countries taking unilateral action were isolated, when these actions had been done with the agreement of the Greek Government with the official policy of the European Union. So that's the kind of problem that solves the draft law? We answer unequivocally no. The bill is coming now, and indeed under the express procedures, because in particular some of its provisions - on which the JRC has already announced that it will table a roll-call vote - it is the necessary complement to the shameful agreement of the European Union-Turkey Summit. It is the necessary complement to all the European Union's decisions from September until now, which provide for the creation of a hot spot for minimum refugees to be relocated to other Member States of the European Union. And if that's what this is all about! We don't see it happening. Not even a thousand people have been relocated, while the original programme foresees about fifty thousand. And all this in order to implement the unacceptable provision for the proportion of one to one, which relates to Syrian refugees and provides that for every Syrian refugee returning to Turkey, another Syrian will be relocated to a Member State of the European Union. So the bill goes hand in hand with the decision of the summit. And those who separate the bill from the deal, whether they don't see or want to see. The decisions of the European Union put the rights of refugees in the basket, the International Refugee Law. Their caging in Greece is intensified by the Dublin Regulation. For the first time, there has been a Dublin National Unit, which has not existed until now, when what should be the indiscipline, conflict with this Regulation. And because you are questioning - we hypocritically say - 'How is the Geneva Treaty being violated?', the first thing we have to answer is that the Geneva Treaty is not being violated now. The Geneva Convention and the rights of refugees, which, if you like, have been shaped in previous times, with another global correlation of power, has been violated over the years by European Union legislation, directives and regulations. And today this violation is getting even bigger. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But it is this legislation of the European Union that you are accepting up to antenna. In fact, in incorporating the 2013 directive with the bill you are adopting the strictest provisions laid down in the directive and in many cases you are still going beyond that. You are creating detention conditions for refugees. For example, paragraph 2(b) of Article 46, which says, essentially provides through a number of general wordings that detention for refugees may be extended up to the limit laid down in No 397/2011. What's that limit? Up to eighteen months for refugees, not only for irregular immigrants, which is also an issue, because the government has not yet answered whether Afghans will be considered as refugees or irregular immigrants. And not to say that we are at risk, there is an example in the last few days of how hot spots operate on the islands, which, after signing the agreement, have become detention centres overnight in order to facilitate the re-promotion of Turkey. Secondly, they are renewing issues. Indeed, the bill does not provide for Turkey to be classified as a safe third country. However, with the bill they are reintroducing issues in relation to the first country of asylum, safe third countries, safe countries of origin, the countries of usual residence and transit, does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to set up a list of safe countries to submit to the European Union, and Article 39 provides that information on the economic, political situation of a country, on which it will also be dependent, will be provided from where? From the authorities of countries of the European Union or in the framework of agreements signed by Greece. In other words, the European Union, which has created the problem, which has led to entanglement with its policy, will in various ways be able to define, impose the designation of countries or regions of countries, to say, for example, that Palmyra is not a safe area, but Damascus is a safe area. It will be able to impose the designation of countries or regions as safe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u375	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u376	I shall conclude, Mr President. Last: As regards the time limits in Articles 60 and 62, unacceptable and dangerous devices are introduced without the basic guarantee that the request for asylum or its application will be examined seriously and fully. In fact, with the reprints made by the government at noon, the situation deteriorated even further. Because in Article 60, while it was possible to continue the protection of anyone who has applied for asylum when exercising an appeal against a rejection decision, with the change that you have made that ends. If there is no new application by a refugee exercising an appeal, or if the rejection decision does not provide for the continuation of protection, then protection is lost for this man. And, essentially, you are asking people who have been afflicted, seasmithed, to keep bureaucratic procedures and time-limits inapplicable and to lead them either to mass rejections of asylum applications or to the exploitation of circuits. The JRC is therefore voting against this draft law. From the first moment on we have raised the causes of the refugee, immigration problem, we have proposed relief measures. Today we call on the Greek people to fight in this direction and to draw a conclusion that parties, governments, which accept this framework, this law which is formed in the Imperialist mechanisms, accepts the very power of capital in the final analysis, not only are trampling proclamations and rights, which had made their flag over the previous period, but they are even more barbaric and reactive measures. Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u377	Mr Parastatides, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, I will ask for such time if time is not enough. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the recent agreement of 18 March on the administration of the refugee issue between Greece - the European Union and Turkey - is well known, an agreement which was criticised by almost all the parties of counter-population, but mainly by the New Democracy. Have you ever wondered if this agreement was not inexcusably unacceptable and harmful, what could happen in that country? How many thousands of people are incapacitated, indeed, would we have? You think and there was the possibility of unilaterally imposing all the conditions, as the government wanted and did not attempt. You forget that most of the countries whose governments are likewise yours - and I address the New Democracy warhead - were negative in any decision to equitable distribution of the refugee population. This has also been expressed by the closure of borders. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the refugee problem was not our choice. It has arisen and, therefore, we are called upon to manage it. As part of rational and effective management, this bill comes to a vote, so that it can enter a class, which provides for the reception and registration, hospitality, regularisation and the asylum procedure, with respect always for the protection of human rights, as laid down in International Law. It should be noted that the asylum procedure is provided for by the n. 3907/2011, the government of Papademos, but never applied. In fact, the SYRIZA - ANEL government put him in place. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I will not say that everything is really good and good. We must recognise that throughout this period, from the day the migratory crisis broke out in our country and in Europe, particularly in the first phase, there were, in fact, weaknesses and flaws, I would say, in all its dealings with it. I do not want to justify these weaknesses, but I believe that to a large extent these are due to the fact that there has been no housing infrastructure before. On this, of course, you have great responsibilities for the government and for which you are now criticising the infrastructure in existence. The only structure invoked by the New Democracy, for which it is proud, is Amydaleza, where the detention conditions were unacceptable and the country was therefore condemned by the European courts. Furthermore, we must not forget that the intensity of migration flows in previous years had nothing to do with the last one - a year and a half. In particular, there were no such data as a strategic plan to address the problem. This data emerged after the agreement of 18 March and we are now entering into the implementation of the second phase, with the State's real intervention now, through the new and existing state structures, so that we are slowly leading to the refugee issue. Today's bill contains new structures and procedures, which have already been known to us, and I will not go into them in detail. In addition, they have been understood, since the Minister responsible, Mr Mouszalas, and my SYRIZA colleagues, have mentioned them in detail. The great problem that arises today is that, unfortunately, within refugees, some well-intentioned groups have also entered and are selling them hope and perspective that the borders will be opened at some point. These groups, Minister, must be identified by the services of the state because, apart from jeopardizing many times even the lives of these desperate and afflicted people, they also make it difficult to manage rationally so that we can have the best possible results. Previously I heard my colleague and my fellow Member, Mr Georganta, making a reference to the involvement of various NGOs. I believe that the answer came from the Minister responsible that there will now, in some way, be an assessment of the role and involvement of these groups. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the situation in Kilkis, since over 50% of the refugee population, about twenty-five or twenty-seven thousand, are in the Kilkis Prefecture. The troubles are known to Entrepreneur. They occur almost daily by the media and of course they are also known to those who have visited it. There is no organised camp and we must take that into account. And right, of course, for good reasons. It is well known that the government's intention is to remove all those who are there. The way the Ministry responsible chooses him. But there are two more organized camps there, Hershus and Nea Kavala, with three and four thousand people respectively, and in addition there are two and a half thousand more in an alana just outside the Polykastro. Minister, in addition to my visits three times to Idomeni and once to Nea Kavala, last Sunday I participated in a popular assembly of the people of Hersus, where a dialogue was held in a very civilised climate. The results of this meeting with the issues and the issues that have been raised to me, I have already communicated them to the relevant Minister responsible for coordination, and I believe that these people are absolutely right, because most of them were in matters of their security. A settlement of five hundred inhabitants cannot raise the presence of space on its sides with four thousand refugees. It should therefore consider the decongestion and relocation of a significant number of people in other regions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I've said many times that the people of Kilkis County have shown great tolerance and graciousness to these afflicted people. But the state must ensure that there is a fair and proportionate way of sharing across the country. There may not be some counties taking up 50% of the refugee population and others having none. We'll have to see that. I think that's unfair. In this way, the remaining hosting centres will be better managed and to the least extent limited the reactions of local communities. In addition, we have to look better at the issue of human resources and supplies, Minister. Preferred to local residents and businessmen in the region. I don't understand why this can't be done. In any case, I think that it is the minimum supply from the state of the behaviour and tolerance of all these people in local societies. There are unemployed young people and scientists, as well as several catering that can offer their services. In conclusion, I think that today's bill under these circumstances and conditions is in the right direction and I call on colleagues in the Opposition to lift any reservations and vote on it. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u379	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that the official posts are attending the meeting of twenty-six members of the Indonesian Parliament. We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u380	It is not possible - and it concerns the government - a bill that is posted as you say, and it is, since February in the year 2/3, that such a serious bill should come under urgent procedure in this House, not a fast track much worse, and that there should be a hundred and seven - I have lost the account - legal improvements which are not legal but are serious changes in many issues within Parliament and that we should all run in a 24-hour time to decipher. I imagine that everyone perceives this and with mechanisms that we may have and with committees that can help. It's unacceptable. If you want this to be a serious and intimate conversation, why did you bring it like this? Why didn't you bring it a week ago, 15 days ago, which was more relaxed and no more bills for Parliament? It is unacceptable and serves other things and does not allow the Greek people to understand what is happening. The question was raised again - they put it from all sides - 'the causes of the refugee'. Indeed, on the New Democracy side, but also on the President of the Parliament, Mr Voutsi, raised the question of whether anyone could predict that the refugee will take such an extent. Well, you don't know? You're political parties and you don't know? You weren't expecting this thing? For example, when the New Democracy signed a government and others other than the JRC did not say a word, the Istanbul Synod's decision on 22 and 23 March 2004, which approved the 'Great Middle East' or 'Democracy of the Middle East' project, did you not know what you signed? The rest of you who, at the time, did not make a speech - and which the European Parliament did not know immediately after this - did not know what was going to happen? What were you imagining? That NATO would share roses, love and food in the Middle East? Didn't you know that the roads of oil are blood-painted throughout the history of humanity? Did you not know what we thought was graphic, namely that in this area all the modern contrasts of the capitalist world are being crossed, that they are at the heart of developments, that the interests and confrontations of all major powers are being cross-checked to control energy sources and control energy flows or for geostrategic reasons? Who are you all laughing at? Who, really? The plan is 2004. The Pentagon built it - these we have specifically revealed - was brought to NATO in Istanbul, approved it, came to the European Parliament - it happens that we were two of the Communist Party of Greece Members at the time - and you welcomed it with bazaars and branches and no one has spoken, because you all thought that NATO would bring democracy - so you said - into the authoritarian regimes of the Middle East and North Africa. So here's the cause, beyond the rest. So here is who it was that led to the massacre and the increase in refugee flows at unprecedented levels. What's the tragedy here? That not only do you do the'mosquito' as they say - that is, you do not say that, you do not speak or speak in previous years - but you come today and you also have NATO to deal with the refugee problem. The Nautian Left to all greatness, along with the classical and traditional Natali New Democracy and other forces! That's what you're doing. That's disgraceful and hypocrisy at the same time. Didn't you know that? You weren't parties? Read what you were saying. Didn't you know what you were hiding behind the Arab Spring? Are you naive? We don't believe it. Smart and capable too. Didn't you know what they wanted and how suddenly where they had Gaddafi, say, and who received him with majesty all over the West, suddenly had surgery? Did you not know how these uprisings were organized and what were they aimed at? Did NATO and imperialists really bring democracy to better live the world? Does the world live better today? You didn't know? What were you talking about then? ‘Separate services for the Arab Spring’. Peoples take good luck in their hands." That's what New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA were saying. That's what you said, isn't it? Are we lying? Then what do you have to say to the world today about what you said back then? Didn't you know or watch the developments in Syria? Read before Yannis Giokas, what you were writing about Syria. Well, did ISIS come from the sky? Didn't you see how the whole line was evolving? Didn't you know that American officials, navals, Europeans, met with leaders in ISIS today? Then what were you talking about? 'We welcome the democratic opposition and must support this democratic opposition.' So ISIS came up. Didn't you know, Mr. Kikilia, for example, the New Democracy or the gentlemen of SYRIZA, who equipped them, who gave them money, who tolerated them? Imperialism, today, the European Union and NATO, has always been a preoccupation of such an abortion without their own corollary? They'd be kicked in no time. Grenada Island leveled it overnight. Why did you tell the world backwards? And today you're wondering? So, what were you waiting for? That people would be able to die with such developments? Historically it has been proved. What you did, though, matters. It's not just what you were saying. All these decisions have been supported by the New Democracy Government. I said about NATO, and I can say about the European Union. Today the SYRIZA government, supposed to be against NATO and asking NATO to come here to protect the refugees and stop them. You're making it easier in practice. That's what NATO wants, to establish itself in the whole region even more. It's trapped anyway. I don't think anyone is so naive that the navals took down the entire armada to stop the refugees. Tell us. Did a boat stop? They can't - he says - find the inflatables. Sounds like crazy stuff. They also find flea with modern electronic media, flea literally and not only here but even in space. So you bring them. You're asking the killer to give a solution to the crime. You are asking the European Union and you are all signing the decisions of the European Union, which they have? I won't describe them. The very reality that is formed every day demonstrates your criminal policy by aligning decisions with the decisions of the European Union. Mr. Voutsis asked us the question. Has anyone said that? Yes, the Communist Party of Greece has said so and you blamed us for being in another world and not realizing the changes that are taking place in humanity. Let's not go to the '90s. I'll go to 2000 then. The Communist Party said it. Let me get you not one, but ten, twenty announcements. Let me get you an announcement from the World Peace Council, which is not the Communist Party of Greece, which says exactly the same and provides for how the situation is to develop. You don't need too much brains to know how it turns out. What you need is for you to stand up against imperialist barbarism and not worship it. The second issue. What has the European Union done in anticipating these things and in its overall policy, since we are now talking about the Geneva Treaties and everything else? Slowly, intelligently, wickedly or openly undermined everything that was positive from the Geneva Convention and from the United Nations directives and decisions. What did he actually do? Has he violated and abolished the refugee's right to apply in more than one country, yes or no? What did you say about Dublin I and Schengen? Long live all but JRC. What did he do next? Dublin II also comes along and says that the only responsible country to give asylum is the country of first admission, which is what? Who would it be? No one really sees the map? Does he not understand that since refugees are turning to Turkey, the easiest way to go, is the Greek road? He doesn't see it, does he? We in Dublin II, where there was a battle in the European Union, thought that we were the ones who did not understand and the rest of us were against us. Don't you see the developments? We said 'no' to Dublin II and predicted that refugees and immigrants would be caught by a large proportion - and not just - in our country. The rest of you, what did you do? Did you support this policy, yes or no? Were they violated, "sawed" by any conquests? The history of the Geneva Convention requires a lot of discussion. Until some time all the imperialism invoked it to bring various dissidents and everything else, to pretend that there is democracy. From one point to the next, the return happened. He saw it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I have a second. If you want, give me two minutes and I'll finish. So you have no responsibility today? Not only do you have a responsibility for what you have not done but also for what you are doing today. The bill comes back to Dublin II 'carabitat', yes or no? Did Germany temporarily abolish it? He abolished it. Why? Because industrialists have asked for five hundred to eight hundred thousand people, but not those who are chosen but who take them. I don't want to say it, Mr. Giokas said it in the report. Are these international treaties being violated? What international conditions is the truth? Where to? Tell us. Did you make a complaint or put a veto somewhere? Why, then, is the Syrian of Palmyra considered a refugee and the Syrian of Damascus is not considered? Where does he say that? Where did anyone get it written? Why while the UN says Afghanistan is a war zone, do you accept it's not to turn them back? So what are you talking about? Are you co-responsible or not? Finally, in order not to eat and time, there is a lot of talk about non-governmental organisations. This is where we need to consider not 'prices'. When the history of NGOs began, everyone other than the JRC was "in the seventh sky". Citizens' organisations. Meaning? I collect ten, I don't account to anyone, I get hot money, and I do what? NGO? Don't go crazy. I am being financed by the European Union or by the State under certain conditions, i.e. to promote the policy it has. That's what happened all over the world. Everyone says hello. We have said - among other things - that it is going to dismantle the traditional structure of the people's movement which is trade unions, organisations, etc., which have a function, represent social interests, control, function. What were you telling us? "You are archaic and live in 1917 and 1900." That was the big one. Are the social forums that you supported? Where is he? In this context it was. Where'd all this go? What about the fight against globalisation? Their executives - most of them - became ministers to the governments and serve capitalist barbarism. Still tell you seventeen NGOs organizations during the Yugoslavian war, arrested in espionage? They studied bird passages but had organs that gave NATO goals. How many other NGOs have they done? How many billions are spent there? Why not go directly to state structures? It is not socialist either. Why shouldn't they go yet? Why not give governments - whatever governments it is, it does not matter - on certain terms, to deal with the refugee problems? We're not saying everyone's that. Let's be clean. We are talking, however, about the way in which there are people who either get carried away or want to offer something. Not all volunteers are the same. There are volunteers who, in fact, are touching and all of our people offer us - and they are to their credit - and they literally spit on fascists and racists with their attitudes every day, but there are others who play many, various and dangerous games. So to finish, I should like to say something to the Minister. Minister, when you call it good and brilliant - so I think you said - the EU-Turkey Agreement, you probably do not realize - and for the government, I say it for others - what this agreement is hiding and what developments we will have with this agreement, both at a more general level and in the refugee situation itself. You've just been through a little now in the bill. He'll come along and we'll see if we're right or wrong. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr. Circus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the refugee is perhaps one of the biggest issues facing the modern world. This is a problem that goes far beyond national limits and therefore only allows collective European solutions to be tackled effectively. From this very moment on, the government, Mr Pafile, and the Prime Minister of the country raised the refugee issue in all its dimensions and fought in Europe and in order to internationalize the refugee question, but also to deal with its substance and root. It is necessary today to make those changes and to establish that legal framework so that there can be real help for the thousands of Syrian civilians who arrive every day in our country in order to travel to Europe for a better life. We have to understand - as the Greek people have understood - that these people have been persecuted after many years of war, and that is why they are here and our people are standing with humanity and solidarity to hunted and afflicted people. The current government with the left forces has been facing difficult dilemmas for about a year. But we have managed to stand firm in our principles and defend our values. We do the same now. The Greek Government has done everything that had been agreed with the European Union. We have fulfilled our obligations, in spite of the difficulties in setting up identification centres for the so-called hot spots on the islands, and we have created hosting structures and sites in Attica, Epirus, in central Greece. In order to deal with the situation in Idomeni, the government has intensified people's awareness of the hospitality centres where they can be transferred. So today we are talking about the vote on the bill, which will effectively address the continuing emergency needs arising from the refugee crisis. The provisions of this bill are designed to rationalise and reform the system for the recognition of international protection, reception, registration, hosting and identification of new citizens from third countries. This is a progressive draft law that goes the legal framework for asylum in our country one step ahead. The legal framework is in line with international and Union law. In any case the success of this law will be judged by many internal and external factors. It will be judged first and foremost by our determination. It will also be judged by Europe's determination to implement a comprehensive agreement. This draft law introduces to Greek law the criteria laid down in Directive 32/2013, for a country to be recognised as safe, and how to ensure the rights of incoming people in our country. It should be clarified once again that Turkey is not recognised as a safe country. On the contrary, it is described that a secure third country for a refugee or immigrant is considered the states where life and freedom are not threatened by race, religion, nationality, participation in a particular social group or political conviction. The first articles of the draft law are reinforced and managed by the Asylum Service in order to ensure the smooth and effective functioning of the Asylum Service. It contains many practical solutions that we are dealing with every day to deal with the refugee issue. Arrangements on the establishment of such structures are flexible, with the possibility of operating asylum offices within reception centres and hosting structures, with the possibility of establishing distinct areas for the stay of vulnerable groups, such as unaccompanied minors, flexibility in recruitment, an increase in organic positions. Ladies and gentlemen, our standing position on war refugees receiving international protection has been and continues to be the necessity of granting asylum or subsidiary protection status. The state must ensure their hospitality in hospitality structures, which ensure conditions of dignity and hygiene until they return to their countries. Under Articles 4-6, an institutional upgrade is made in respect of the guarantees of independent operation of the Appeals Authority and the independence of the judiciary's judiciary is significantly enhanced - a subject on which Greece has suffered many criticisms from international organisations and organisations - as well as the administrative and financial autonomy of the Appeals Authority. The Reception and Identification Service shall be established to facilitate data recording, identification and verification, medical audit and information provision and shall be responsible for supervising centres and structures. The Asylum Service is being disconnected by the Ministry of Citizen Protection, the General Secretariat is being set up at the Ministry of the Interior, and issues are being dealt with in order to deal with an old pathogen, which my colleagues have already spoken about, for the benefit of those people who have been recognised by the Greek state as beneficiaries of international protection and who have been granted humanitarian residence status. At the same time, the incoming citizens of third countries will be able to apply for asylum and, if the examination of the request is not completed within the period of their detention, they will receive an asylum seeker's card and will be promoted in temporary hospitality structures in mainland Greece. They are also included in the draft legislation and all those necessary amendments to rationalise the existing system of recognition of international protection. Public administration bodies are being strengthened, in particular local government structures are being strengthened to meet emergency and practical needs in host and hosting centres. These are regulations which, in other words, impose on them the irreversible reality. Because, as many people have said, this bill certainly does not concern the agreement, but it speeds up many of the procedures that it provides for and assists the great work that the state has undertaken today. We must therefore ensure full and effective access for all asylum seekers to the asylum procedure. Thus, the provisions of this law regulate the procedures for the submission and examination of requests for international protection and recognition of refugee status. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's legislative initiative, we have shown that it is not enough to sympathize with the war refugees. It is not enough to be shocked by the dramatic images we see in Idomeni and elsewhere, where thousands of refugees dream of going through Europe. We are legislating so that we can help this situation. Apart from the fact that the country needs this new structure, which is flexible and helps us to deal with immediate and practical issues, it has already been requested by the European Union, directly, to institutionalise the new legal framework for the provision of asylum, so that the rest of the procedure envisaged begins. The Greek Government managed to raise the refugee problem and put it on the European table, despite the fact that many circles within and outside Greece raised it as a national issue. The human values and traditions of both Europe and our country are now being judged, based on how we stand on the refugee issue. We therefore need to contribute to this common European solution that we fought for to codecision on, to address the issue of refugee flows. We must prove that Europe is not a fortress and that there is no country to become a storeroom of souls, but that Greece is a modern country safe for its citizens and also a factor of respect for the rights and application of international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u383	The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Lazarides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my position, I would like to make three points. In fact, given the opportunity that the ministers are here, I would like to point out the following: I am elected in the second of Thessaloniki, in the country of Thessaloniki. You know the land of Macedonia and its people are hospitable, especially warm people. But we have reached our limits, Minister. You must begin to see the subject of migration flows. In other words, about thirty thousand refugees are gathered in Macedonia. Analogous to Attica are thirteen thousand and in Central Greece two and a half thousand. As you can see, there is the impression in the Macedonians that something is happening, namely that Macedonia has been chosen in order to "store" people there. I know that's not the case, but that's the impression. So I would ask you to start these streams heading to other areas, so that there are no false impressions in the world. Secondly, I wanted to point out this, Minister. There must be some kind of NGO control. If you go for a walk, you'll see people where only on the look one realizes something is wrong. We had this case a few days ago with the dispersal of false news, thus jeopardizing human lives. Someone went there, handed some sketch out and wrote in that there are some paths that refugees can use to get into Skopje, which was a lie. They risked human lives, because people passed from torrents, etc. There is also a blurred landscape with these NGOs, how they manage finances, where they get money, how they use them, etc. There are, of course, NGOs operating as they need, but a large number - most of them, I would say, Minister - have a problem, so you need to check on them. Finally, my third point is that I want from this step in the plenary, to congratulate and thank the Church, which participates in humanitarian aid to refugees and participates with all its powers, without any resources, etc., from the top to the bottom. From the top to the base from the metropolitans of the local metropolitan up to the priests all participate, help feeding, dressing refugees, all. The participation of the Church is, in fact, touching. The refugee problem is a problem that we should face with national unity. It is a problem whose dimensions are European or better at UN level, if we want to address its humanitarian dimension or the humanitarian crisis, if you want. A few days ago in the Committee of Deputies Hellenism, our Greek colleagues, MPs of the dispersal, from Australia, America, Sweden, etc., spoke with the Greek soul, the national understanding against this national problem, away from micropsy and micro-participatory conflicts. The problem is great and only with unity can it be dealt with effectively. The refugee phenomenon has received such proportions due to the war of the Syrian disaster and, above all, due to the war crimes committed by the extremist Islamists. So civilians, innocent people, are being forced to take refuge in order to save their families. On the road, therefore, for Europe, they use Greece as an intermediate station. But our neighbours have closed the borders, so the refugees are locked in our homeland. To find out the extent of the problems that have arisen in the neighbouring countries of Syria, I would mention some of what is happening in the neighbouring countries to Syria. In Jordan, refugees account for 25% - 30% of the total population. In Lebanon, over 35% -40% of the population have been lost. In our homeland, officially registered refugees are fifty-two thousand. I would like to point out here that the Government, led by the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Civil Protection, Mr Janeto Filippako, has successfully moved towards Europe by all legal procedures, about a million two thousand refugees. The previous governments were distinguished from a total lack of planning on the migration issue. The size of the lack of planning for the previous governments is widening, considering that they have managed immigrants and not desperate refugees. I was expecting to hear specific proposals from the Opposition. On the other hand, however, it has not formulated anything, which shows its discomfort and the lack, even now, of planning in such a serious problem. In evidence of this, I would like to read to you a few statements by former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and his Ministers on the immigration issue, on the government of Samaras - Venizelos. Reply to a question he gave on 22 February 2013, Protocol number 189, instead of the then Minister, Mr Stylianides, State Secretary Charalambos Athanasios, quoted: First, that the number of legal immigrants counted by the Ministry reached five hundred thirty-seven thousand two hundred thirty-seven. Secondly, that the number of illegal immigrants could be calculated on the basis of only the total arrests of illegally entering police and port. Thirdly, that this figure was five hundred seventy-seven thousand nine hundred illegal immigrants. He concluded by saying that any attempt to limit their number - illegal immigrants, that is - is completely degraded. Speaking in the Austrian newspaper “KURIER” on 2-1-2014 Prime Minister Antonis Samaras said that the number of unemployed in Greece is as large as that of illegal immigrants and that both may form an explosive mixture that could threaten social cohesion. ELSTAT's official figures mention the closure of 2013 that the number of unemployed amounts to one million and fifty thousand. There, in other words, they determine the number of immigrants. Two and a half months before the interview in the Austrian "KURIER" during the joint press conference that had been given to his Maltese counterpart on October 21, 2013 in Valetta, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras among others said: "We are a country that welcomes over a million people, who are basically illegal immigrants, who do not tell us where they are coming from, when they are renounced." And then he says: "As I said before, we have gathered over a million of these people", meaning the illegal immigrants in our country. Mr Samaras himself, however, four and a half months before his meeting with the Maltese counterpart and specifically on June 7, 2013, talking to Helsinki at an event, under the name of Economic Ideas Forum of the Center for European Studies, the European People's Party, said: "In addition to the one and a half million unemployed we have a flood of illegal immigrants, about two million, to cross our borders, mainly from North Africa, from turbulent regions of the Middle East and Southeast Asia." The country's Prime Minister, in other words, with three different positions, which were made at a minimum interval, spoke about two million once on 7-6 2013, one million on the second time on 21-10-2013 and one million on the third time on 2-1-2014. Since it has not been said before that there has also been a reduction in the flow of illegal immigrants, I have here some graphical representations, which are clear and show the difference. One understands the size. The blue color is 2013 and the brown color in 2014. It shows the increase in the flow in 2014. It's multiple. In some areas...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u385	Where did you get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u386	That evidence? It's statistical. I'll submit them to the Minutes, so you can see them and get them up to date.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u387	They have a source.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u388	Now I'll read it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u389	No, don't read them to me. Where did you get it from? Tell me where you came from. Because not only is it true, but you don't know where you came from.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u390	Mr. Kikilia, we won't have a dialogue, please. Mr. Lazaridis, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u391	It's from specific services. If you are questioning them, bring corresponding information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u392	What services?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Kikilia, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u394	I understand your embarrassment, Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Lazarides, please stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u396	Yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Kikilia, you will never interrupt again! Mr Lazarides, you will continue your speech and I would ask you to be as brief as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u398	Okay, I'm short. I'll tell the rest in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u399	I'm sorry to interrupt you again. You have a right to use and to use secondary. If you want to secondary later, that's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u400	I'll be a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u401	It is a good request, however, that the speaker should not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u402	I conclude by saying that we are voting on the bill in principle and on the articles, because we think that it puts all these things in order, which the previous ones have left to their fate completely, and that is why we have had these results, which I have presented with data beforehand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Before I give the floor to the President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Michaloliakos, I am telling the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", forty-four students and students and five teachers from the 1st and 2nd Municipal School of Rhodes. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Michaloliacos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u404	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I raise the issue of today's bill, for those who do not know it, today it is April 1st, and it was April 1st of the EEC the beginning which was heard by the President of Cyprus. Eighteen-year-old children died on the hook for Greece and for the union, and the Greek Parliament should honour them. How can this happen, however, when both the government and other parties in this House have agreed on the resurrected plan, which is being promoted in Cyprus, which will lead to the Turkishisation of the Greek mediterranean? Price and glory from the Golden Dawn in the EEC's fight for union with the mother country! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Today's bill is about the great crisis that is plagued by the country, about the illegal immigrants you call 'irregular immigrants', some even showing exaggerated zeal, do not want them or irregular immigrants, fully adopting the status of open borders, which, unfortunately, exists in our country. We are also talking about refugees. Here we have the Geneva Convention, which determines what refugees are. Article 33 clearly states: 'None Contracting country shall deport or re-launch in any way refugee at the borders of the territories; their lives and their freedom are threatened on grounds of race, religion, nationality, social order or political convictions'. But all those who come to Greece from Turkey do not come from a war zone, there is no war in Izmir, there is no war in Istanbul. We have facts in particular, where they took the so-called'refugees', if you like, from Istanbul with coaches and took them across from Kastelorizo, where they were passed, about eight hundred people, prior to a distance of nine hundred kilometres. So the Geneva Convention is clear. It is regrettable that there are Members here who represent, it is assumed, the legality and who directly request that none of them be brought back to Turkey. For this reason, we should be thinking: is Turkey a safe country? Of course it is about the data provided by international law. Is there a war in Turkey? How is that possible? Here we are allies in NATO, here we give them the green light to get into the European Union, here our Prime Minister himself goes to Turkey and he shares red roses in the bloodshed Izmir, where Hellenism bears witness. Isn't it a safe country to go back there? Or do we, in this way, applaud this huge slave trade by traffickers, by Turkey's illegal mechanisms, which only results in the days of SYRIZA - ANEL government going home to a hundred thousand refugees and illegal immigrants? I now come to what has been said in yesterday's committee and what has been announced by the so-called '53 plus' group on the matter. Mrs Catrivanou defended the policy of open borders, which you deny exists. Members themselves say that there is a policy of open borders. Indeed, he said: 'Will we retreat refugees and retreat refugees to Turkey? We must resist. We must welcome everyone, as we have already done now, and that is why we are proud of SYRIZA." Are you, in fact, proud of why they crossed the open borders of Greece, unfortunately, a million thousand illegal immigrants and refugees, among whom there are certainly both criminal elements of the common criminal law and jihadists, who may become dangerous terrorists for security not only in our country? He also said that the bill provides that in exceptional cases of major flows and, therefore, a greater number of asylum applications, the examination will take place within 14 days. It won't work. It also stressed that the guarding of open structures was entrusted to private companies. Negative. Listen to those who do not believe in political discrimination, you who believe in pluralism what your Member said. "The supermarkets are mostly golden. Are we going to give them the protection of closed centres?' What kind of mentality is that? Is a new policy inaugurating, which will provide for certificates of social opinion? How do you know they're golden? In any case, what are the golden ones? It is the third political party in the country, which you do not respect. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I now come to what the so-called 'left' wing of SYRIZA says, the '53 plus' group, which features that we must resist the logic of the closure of borders, which is promoted by the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, should continue to fight for refugees and their rights. There is a battle between Syrians and Afghans. After all, in this battle, who will you be with? Decide, because as you know, as you know, the media are hiding it, which are playing a dirty game, at the moment both in Idomen and in Piraeus and in Chios there are literally battles in this terrible situation, which has been created. Ladies and gentlemen, in your communication you are still speaking and you are officially promoting a policy for permanent establishment, as well as for working rights. But is it possible that these things will be said seriously? Talk about the employment rights of refugees and paradigms, as you want them to, migrants, at the same time as unemployment in our country is at 25%? At the same time that over 50% of young people have no jobs? In the infamous Greece of the memorials, misery and poverty, where unemployment is constantly mocking, can you talk about employment rights? In addition, I'll give you a clue. In Agios Panteleimon there is a primary school with a hundred forty children. Of these forty kids, do you know how many are Greeks? Just 20. The hot spots of Idomeni, Mytilini and Chios are nothing in front of the huge hot spots you have built in the central districts of Athens, Thessaloniki and many cities! And that's why, of course, it's not just SYRIZA's fault. It is the fault of all those who have ruled the country over the last few decades who have just followed the open borders policy. It is a pretext that this problem will be added to the already grim situation in the economy, which will certainly not be solved by magic, as the Prime Minister said the day before yesterday in his speech, and suddenly the much-conscious development will come. With an increase in tax rates and with this tax storm, the economy is not going to grow. On the contrary, unemployment will grow. The recession will grow too. But you are - and that is why I must congratulate you - on your ideology. Yes, when we participated in the Macedonian rally in 1993, when we said that Macedonia was one and it is Greek, the left was stable in its line, that it is not a name issue. But take responsibility for this. And as for the Golden Dawn, Macedonia is one and Greek. The name "Macedonia" is her soul and her history and will not pass any dark plan against the nation! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] You go ahead with your plans and the change of history. You've all said that when you were still at 4%. But you're no longer at 4%. You're 35.5%, according to the last elections, but you think 35.5% believes what 4% believed. You are being miserable. I would also like to say that it is a direct insult to the Greek spirit to appoint this Belgian modern artist at the festivals of Epidaurus and Athens. And it will be shameful and desecration of the sacred space of Epidaurus to present this fierce sight, which is intended to present. And the Golden Dawn denounces your ways. In the face of Turkey's manipulations, which are directly responsible for what is happening in the Middle East, which is certain that it has financed the terrorist jihadists, it is a given fact that even today it is trying to strengthen all of them, at the same time you are indifferent to and consider Turkey as an allied country, within the framework of NATO. In response to the refugee crisis, the so-called refugee question, in order to stop this situation, Golden Dawn tabled a draft law according to which illegal entry to the Greek border should be regarded as a criminal offence and punished by a penalty that will not be repaid. Then you will see how the illegal immigrants will be stopped immediately and the refugee flows will come. In addition, we consider all that is happening with a clear hostile energy on the part of Turkey and call on the Greek state to take steps and denounce Turkey to international organisations. In September we had elections. SYRIZA took 35.5% with a 45% abstention, or less than 20%. With something less than 20%, do you think you have the right to dismantle the national state of the Greeks? Know your plans won't pass. If you dare, do a referendum, as you did in the summer of 2015 and decide whether the people want the hot spots or whether they want what needs to be done, that is to say close the country's Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u405	Mr. Kurublis would follow. But he asked for the floor, Mr Kurublis, for a minute to put forward legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u406	For three minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u407	To table legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u408	And to speak for three minutes. Mr. Kurublis agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u409	All right, but it is a warm request or an exhortation: If there are any legislative improvements that the Ministry is planning to put forward, at some point we will be finishing with them, you will also be tabling the latter, so that this House can also be informed, because we are approaching the time when we may begin the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u410	I'm filing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u411	Mr. Musala, because you've taken the lead, you're going to be seconded, but now, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u412	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u413	Okay. Mr Ioannis Mousalas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u414	Ladies and gentlemen, there was a debate that had a fertile part. But there has also been a debate which, on the occasion of a tool - as I insist on saying this thing that we have brought to help the situation, which has evolved over time - has been inaccurate, exaggerated, as 'the golden opportunity has been found for the SYRIZA Government to fall'. I don't think that makes these things easier. I would like to say to the Communist Party of Greece that I have listened very respectfully to their views. In a big place, I agree. I miss what we're doing today, but this could be my thing. I would like to say to Mr Theocharopoulos that I will agree with him that we have been helped with the Democratic Alliance too many times. There is a common framework for the theoretical treatment of the refugee. In Europe too many times we have worked together. Any objections to missing cooperation in certain parts or discrepancies are legitimate, others are valid, others are not. I would like to refer to a few things that I consider to be 'hundreds'. How is it possible with a presidential decree to undo a bill? I put it in the Minutes - Mr Loverdos has signed it - which says that by a presidential decree adopted on a proposal from the Interior Ministers on the organization the existing services are being abolished, increased or reduced. I am also presenting a practical meeting and an opinion from the Council of State, from its plenary session. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] There is no, Mr. Kefaliannis, no increase in positions of commander. They're the same bosses, they're just moving. So we don't have a trick to appoint heads. I don't know very well about things. I don't have the time and pre-service you have here, but when I listened to this about opacity and violation of public policy, I wondered. I have to testify to you that Amygdaleza was built directly and that feeding procedures, medical care, etc. They were getting straight. I'm filing it here. They are the laws, which are also signed by those who denounced this thing. I will accept, without being able to judge Mr Dannelly's view, that the report by the General Accounting Office of the State is unclear. It's a legitimate opinion. However, there is. Because here it was said that there was no. You can read it, please. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Finally, I wanted to say that the plan 'NATO' and Mr. Dendias know about it - and then I will speak positively about some things about Mr. Teddy - does not provide for what he has told us. I have repeatedly spoken these months, which I have been with the Commissioner for Firefighting, who is the head of this project. It's not like that. He's got some plans for ten thousand places in Rhodes, Crete. It wasn't timely. It could not be updated. There was a base on which we pressed and built the contingency plan, but that's as far as it goes. Meningitis. For God's sake! Three Roma children in Zephyri got sick with meningitis. When you go out and say here about meningitis, hysteria is created. It has nothing to do with each other. Mr. Theocharopoulos, it is not because of SYRIZA and it is not because of Greece that the relocation has not been mandatory. We fought and fought with your own forces in the European Union. We couldn't. I have never said that it is a good deal. I said it was a good deal we could sign. If I did it myself, it would be another. If I did it with you, it would be better. We don't disagree about that. I spoke to what I wanted and what I could. I conclude, saying this, is a tool. Do not give him any more dimensions. I'm going to agree with someone who said we're going to vote but I don't give a white cheque. Do not give a white check. Check this tool. We need tools in a dense time. It is not the phase for more general opposition. We need tools. Maybe it's not the best. Other legal interventions may be needed. Time runs with a density unbelievable. The use of the tool will show whether or not it was necessary, it was urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We will now give the floor to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u416	Mr President, I believe that there are crucial issues on which we can all do our utmost together to find common places and to be weak and which exist, so that we can really defend the country at a difficult time, at a difficult geostrategic juncture, where on the one hand there is an unheard of world war involving almost all major forces in the wider region and on the other hand a Europe which is virtually incapable and powerless to face the crisis itself. When, ladies and gentlemen, a Europe of five hundred and eighty million is unable to deal with one and a half million refugees, are we charging the Greek Government weaknesses for the situation in Piraeus and Idomeni? Ladies and gentlemen, you have and we have seen a selective memory in the good years, in the rich years that Greece has lived. Have you forgotten the case of the lantern children? Did you forget her? Did you forget the image that Greece had around Omonoia? The Greek people do not forget it. And you come now and weep about the case at the port of Piraeus and Idomeni. And this is disgusting hypocrisy! Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, these people come from hope. They don't want to stay in Greece. This has never been done by any immigrant phenomena, whether illegal or legal, with various efforts made by previous governments. They had flooded Greece. It was flooded by Greece. All your documents as governments in recent years have been talking about five hundred and a million illegal immigrants. And now you abdicate a government for the fifty-two thousand people who are here today who don't want to stay in Greece. I'm stressing it again. They come from hope to be found in Europe. Instead of denouncing the Europe of closed borders - why we did not enter Europe to be in a Europe of closed borders, you know very well what the conditions were and what they defined to get into Europe - instead of Europe being denounced, not only on the logic of nationalism that undermines the European vision in which most of us believe - this political choice of closed borders and the policy of awakening nationalism that Europe has paid with a lot of blood in recent years - instead of denouncing it on the commitments, you are denouncing us. Where has Europe fulfilled its obligations? In the number of FRODERH's officers, the small ships, the speedboats that he had to send us for the port? Where did it meet its relocation obligations? I have not heard one of my most recent fellow Members speak of Europe's obligation to conduct a deficit in its commitment to the relocation of sixty thousand people to Europe. For NGOs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not come down from virginity. NGOs are not now. You know very well what has happened with the NGOs over the last fifteen years and how much Greek money - I am not talking about European, I am talking about Greek money - has been crushed, without any control. And what did you do when we tabled a full question with evidence on the way the NGOs operate as a military opposition? So we'll be honest with each other. Today, with this piece of legislation, we are trying, firstly, to have a record. Second, let's see if they're certified. We must create a framework so that we know the role of those who are active in Greece, what money they take, and if they really do what we have done as a Ministry of Health, are obliged to address the regions and have the consent of the regions in this process. Is there also a question, ladies and gentlemen, about what we say: is Turkey a safe transit country? What's the bill doing? It sets out criteria, and here it is now, that you want, in the good sense, Turkey to take the opportunity to say that yes, I am a safe third country, if it meets all these criteria. I conclude, Mr President, with a crucial issue, because I hear you say again that you have done that, that you have done that. What have you done, in order to fund self-government, ladies and gentlemen, of previous governments from European programmes on these issues? Where's self-government I. And second. Degree? So tell me a regulation you, which you have dealt with much better, and you are very capable of self-government 1 and 2 grades, which will actually raise a great deal of weight - and one must recognize that - so that it can actually be financed, as the non-governmental organisations are very easily financed. Unaccompanied. I didn't hear you say anything. Because there has really been an excellent job, a good coordination, and today there is no problem with this. I'm coming to the care business. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to the honour of the country - not of the government - and of the Greek people, who, in its overwhelming majority, carry history and culture, emits humanity towards these oppressed people. A million people have passed from Greece. Open your nose? Even for these people at the informal centers of Piraeus and Idomeni opened a nose? Isn't that because of the Greek police? Is this not due to the care system that exists and that protects these people, who are now entering a special care procedure? And you come here to the altar of small-party interests, and you talk about epidemics that do not exist, in a country that is about to accept twenty-eight, thirty-million tourists? Isn't that even your concern? Is that the patriotism that holds us all? Say any verbs inseparable in order to say something to abdicate the government? Nothing good has happened, ladies and gentlemen? Did you see any refugee on the road flew, fasting? Did the government do this? Didn't the Greek people do it? Well, don't you want to charge them to the government, but do you also despise the offering of a people? Are you reproaching the offering of our children that we said were the children of each company who stood up from the cafeterias and ran along and read the children and hang out with them? So this is a bit of an offer? Are you ignoring her? Do we ignore her and come here in an easy and unfounded and inexperienced way only to denounce? Nothing else. Ladies and gentlemen, ancient thought has invented a great deal of conception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The speech is given by the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative will be followed and then the Potamian Parliamentary Representative. Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u418	We consider it unnecessary to criticise the Government in this House for another serious bill bringing it under the urgency procedure. We know he no longer sweats your ears. Criticism makes sense when the other one is even willing to listen. And here it is clear to everyone that the urgent bills are neither a matter of carelessness nor a matter of rush. After all, the decisions of the Summit on the refugee problem, which is today's bill, are well known since 7 March. It is a conscious political choice and a tactic of the government, serious bills to bring them under the urgency procedure, in order to prevent the debate in the House and above all the information of the Greek people. And this must be condemned by the people themselves. The government with the bill comes essentially to incorporate all the European Union's agreements on the refugee issue so far, in particular the last disgraceful agreement at the summit, the European Union - Turkey, which have led to the current state of embezzlement and violation of the rights of refugees. It comes to adapt the law of asylum to the requirements and guidelines of this agreement and the signing of the Greek Government. It comes to tighten even more the very strict conditions, to recognise a contemptuous, outdated man as a refugee and to obtain international protection. Here too, it seems the enormous hypocrisy of the government and of the other parties which are in agreement with the decisions of the summit. What is this hypocrisy? Three days ago, in this House, we had a debate, of course, about the sight, since there the Prime Minister was making heavy reasons for justice, transparency, and he goes on to say, today, with the Fast track bill of his government, but also with what he has already signed in the European Union, he comes to rattle, even this right of refugees who recognises some basic rights to these people, who are victims of wars, interventions and reactionary regimes - regimes that have supported - and wars which the imperialists have unleashed in all previous years. At the same time, when a number of international organisations such as Amnesty International and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, even SYRIZA Members, have condemned the agreement signed by the Government. So here's how the government perceives justice and the rest of the parties. They invoke it in general and abstractly to each other in the House, but for them the supreme law is what is agreed in the European Union, in the other imperialist institutions of capital, be they memorials and measures at the expense of the Greek people or decisions at the expense of the refugees. Today's bill and in particular some of its provisions are the necessary complement to implement the decisions of the Union and, in particular, the last agreement of the European Union summit with Turkey. It is characteristic that the new Asylum Service is set up a Dublin National Unit, which has not been in existence until now, rather than calling for the abolition of this unacceptable regulation of the European Union. Secondly, the bill still legislates a decision of the European Union signed by the government. These are hot spots, that is, these reception and identification centres, in which the European Union's mechanisms are actively involved, and they are essentially turned into detention centres and a very large number of refugees. Especially those who come to Greece after the agreement will be in a state of long-term detention of caging, in order to apply the unacceptable provision for the one-to-one ratio, which relates to Syrian refugees. And since the government is constantly repeating that this bill does not provide for Turkey's status as a secure third country, we ask: is it accidental that now after the signing of the European Union-Turkey Agreement, which provides for the deportation to Turkey of Syrian refugees, the government comes to a vote in less than 40 hours, a bill containing the European Union directive which in turn introduces the concepts 'first country of asylum','safe first countries' or'safe country of origin' and 'creating a national list of safe countries of origin'? These are in quotes to the agreement. We are simply saying that the road opens for mass rejection and with express requests for international protection in Greece and in general in the European Union. By the way, does the government have to tell the Greek people what it will do with the Afghans, who, according to the UN, belong to the refugee groups? Will he consider them refugees, as he said until at least a while ago, or will he rank them in the charge of so-called irregular immigrants, to send them back for slaughter by the Taliban? Ladies and gentlemen, the bill confirms the illusion of the 'Luxembourg alliance', which is called the European Union in the ruling class of Turkey, which does not solve the problem of the invaded people in our country nor is it going to stop the refugee-migration current. On the contrary, it exacerbates the conditions of caging and repression for even more refugees and immigrants. Once again, the government follows the dear method of trying to make the black - white, as Mr Tsipras said, that the closure of the northern borders for refugees is the result of individual actions, which were allegedly isolated - as he said at the time - when this closure was a joint decision, the official policy at the time of the European Union and now with the bogeyman of the Greek Government. The thousands of refugees and immigrants who are already in Greece and those who are still coming will remain locked, while the selective relocation programme from Greece to other European Union countries is progressing at a rate of real turtle. And phenomena like those that happened two days ago in Piraeus will be extended as the desperation of these people grows, while the state continues to leave people, women, young children, babies, helpless in mud, the diseases in Idomen, Piraeus and elsewhere, in the mercy of various circuits. The Council's decision that, for every return from Greece to Turkey of a Syrian refugee, another refugee will be resettled from Turkey to a Member State of the European Union until the seventy-two-thousand limit is reached, is an unacceptable ping-pong which is played on their backs, violating the rights of refugees in a raw, unambiguous manner. The decision on compulsory submission of asylum applications and their fast track in Greece means reintroducing into force and strict application of the inadmissible Dublin Regulation. The result of these decisions will be to increase the circuits and turbulences of slave traders, to make routes even more dangerous and to raise the number of dead refugees and migrants. The hunting and illegal conditions will also create other problems with repercussions on the local population, on our islands, on the hinterland, on the border with the other countries of the European Union. The decision to open up another chapter for Turkey's accession to the European Union is, in fact, a reward, given the continuing aggression and provocation of the Turkish Government both to the Cyprus question and to the sovereign rights of our country in the Aegean Sea. The same applies to the launch of disbursements of EUR 3 billion, as well as to the promise of payment of another EUR 3 billion by the end of 2018 in Turkey. With the agreement, the ruling class of Turkey has taken away from the European Union what has been sought for a long time, that is to say, to set foot in the Syrian area, mainly Kurds, in the name, allegedly, of creating safer areas for refugees in certain areas near the Turkish border. The JRC has been trying to highlight the causes that create it, which are the interventions and wars launched by the United States of America, NATO, the European Union in the wider region of the Middle East, the Eastern Mediterranean, North Africa, in the context of their competition with other forces, such as Russia. And when the JRC was talking about the consequences these wars would have, some political forces here in Greece - among them SYRIZA - celebrated the "Spring" for the free Syrian army and all this disgusting propaganda of legalisation at the time and justification of the forthcoming interventions. If we thought you were politically naive when you said that, you might have an excuse. But you're not. It's all choices. The issue is that these choices of rulers today are only dangerous to people's interests. These choices are yours and your partners and the Greek people pay them. And he'll pay them even more expensive. So what you're doing today, Mr. Muzala, is what you did and what you were saying yesterday and what you were saying about what you're doing and what perspective you're opening up for tomorrow, from now on on. Otherwise, you're walking to the unknown boat of hope. The fact that, masters of the government, you are bound by the very contradictions of this policy, those of your assessments and your positions is evident. We know that now. And he's learned it, and the Greek people have already seen it these fifteen months. The situation has been exacerbated recently on the occasion of the attacks in Belgium, by the development of Turkey's military action in northern Syria, but also by NATO's involvement in the Aegean Sea by the decision of the NATO Defence Ministers' Council at the request of the Greek Government. The Greek Government must immediately withdraw its agreement to mix a maritime naval force in the Aegean Sea, not to grant any facilitation, any existing infrastructure or base, use of land, air or sea space, to be used in the preparation or implementation of imperialist interventions and wars. This involvement exploits refugee as a pretext, but it is essentially related only to competition and the escalation of war in Syria, while preparing new possible interventions in other countries in the region. This development is also going to exacerbate the problem of new refugee flows. At the same time, this development is dismantling and will further dismantle Turkish aggression, as it has been seen by the actions of the last few days that Greece's sovereign rights are being challenged in the Aegean Sea, taking advantage of NATO's well-known position that the Aegean is a single operational space, which opens up the question of the abolition of Greece's maritime borders. In view of the above, and given that there can be no solution or even relief of the problem as long as the imperialist interventions continue, the wars in the wider region, and the specific decisions of the European Union and NATO remain in force, the JRC proposes specific positions - it also tabled them at the meeting of the Political Heads of State under the President of the Republic - to alleviate the consequences of the problem, but at the same time they also require the dismissal of the decisions of these imperialist associations and alliances. Only in this direction of struggle can the consequences be addressed. We are tabling this specific memorandum of the JRC's proposals in practical terms, since there is no time now to develop them all in detail, which also contains all practical proposals for both today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u419	The Labour People's Movement, we say, needs to demand immediate relief measures, support for refugees, solidarity, movement to their countries of destination against the unacceptable decisions of the European Union, the isolation of racist, fascist voices, the strengthening of the people's struggle, solidarity against the imperialist war, against the rotten exploitation system that gives rise to it. Finally, we welcome the Athens workers who, after a call from PAME, once again protest in the center of Athens and in Syntagma Square.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u421	Mr President, may I ask the Minister a question about the legislative improvement that you have just distributed to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u422	Look, we said parliamentarians would talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u423	Just a minute. I'd like to ask a question. I don't want to set up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u424	I didn't deny you the floor. I say we will continue the debate, Mr. Panagulis will speak, then Mr. Famelos, Mr. Amyras. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u425	Minister, I beg your pardon, but I see here the legislation we have distributed to us, which is not legal. It is a provision which changes paragraph 8 of Article 5. I will explain to my fellow Members what he says here: "The Central Authority of the Board of Appeal is created by distractions from the various other services following an invitation of interest by a statement by the person concerned first to the Director and a decision by the appropriate ministers." That's what you testified here. Here now comes an incredible thing that I believe you have no knowledge of and is obviously wrong. The secondment may also be effected at the request of the staff member without requiring a public invitation. This thing, as you can see, means only one: it means that someone is going to the employee's ear and says to him, 'Do a little thing and I'm here'. That cannot be accepted. Please, because I do not want to add this article to what we have requested a roll-call vote - because in any case the principle has to work - if you have goodness, see it and answer it, because it is provocative. And it's challenging for both you and the majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u426	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u427	Here, Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u428	Mr. Dendia, I think you're right. I'll see it with the lawyers, and I'll answer it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u429	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u430	It is only, Minister, that your answer should be given soon, because two parliamentary representatives, one of whom will be left by now, and one Member, have been given a limited time. Then we have no more speakers. So please answer as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u431	I need to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u432	Mr. Panagulis has the floor. He's not in the Chamber. Mr. Fammelos has the floor. Mr. Famele, come to Stepa, because Mr. Panagulis is not in the Chamber, although his name has been announced many times before his turn. Mr. Amyras will be talking for a while. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u433	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, because it is one of the last speeches but also because there has been some misunderstanding about the subject, to come back to some basic elements of the bill. We are talking today about the draft law on protection, the Asylum Service and the first reception procedure, incorporating a European directive - most of the articles - into the Greek institutional framework, the European directive 2013/32, for which, at least in the public speech, no objection has been raised from my own colleagues in the other parties in this House. It provides for the protection and registration of all new citizens from third countries who are seeking international protection - this is also the process of asylum and first reception - and of course the corresponding changes in the Code of Migration, in the Ministry's organiza­tions, in the construction and staffing of these services. And, obviously, in this whole legislative process a few of the provisions completing the implementation of the European Union-Turkey agreement are added, but above all, the ones that are necessary for our country to meet the emergency needs due to the refugee crisis. I think that in all these public texts, whether in the directive or in those parts of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, with the exception of some objections from the Communist Party, from the other parties that are here today in plenary - I mean what is present - there is no objection, at least there is no objection to it. That is why, although it would be tempting to deal with the assessment of this division, that is to say, in international fora, in the treaties, in the meetings of the European People's Party or the Social Democratic Party, respectively, there should be agreement and representation of the Greek interests, but here in Greece we should only have an opposition to satisfy either the local audience or the need to have an opposition - which I do not always understand, particularly in matters relating to foreign policy - I will ask some questions that concern us, ladies and gentlemen. Two are the main questions: Firstly, is there a need to improve asylum and international protection services today in Greece? Secondly, do we have to adapt to the European acquis in this category? I think the answer is almost unanimous, because the situation in our country was not good in terms of protection for third-country nationals. At the same time, does anyone ask, does anyone deny the need to respond to the emergency needs we are currently experiencing in the refugee crisis? Nor has there been a different viewpoint heard in this. There was also a talk of whether this bill should be urgent. Let me say two, three numbers: The 95% piece, 98% of the bill is posted online. There has been sufficient consultation, and everyone knows, because they have also participated in the debate on the European directive. If some did not participate, I think they are unable to follow the Greek parliamentary procedure. Because I believe that everyone has participated, I think 98% has been posted, the consultation has been held and the public debate has been completed. The remaining part - probably 2% to 3% of the matter - concerns the implementation of an agreement adopted on 18 March and will apply from 4 April. So does the urgency of the bill not justify that it should be applied from Monday? The agreement was made two weeks ago and had to be legally adapted to the rest of the texts. At the same time, does it not justify, if you wish, your mobilisation or the obligation for the country to be okay on Monday? Unless you do not want the country to be okay on Monday and to give arguments to third parties. Because what has happened over the last eight months in our country is that we are fine with our agreements, for the first time perhaps in the last few years in Europe. I hope you don't want to be okay. I think you have the same common right of intent to be all right in this agreement and to be in front of Europe. My personal need, however, is also to have a better, broader debate that has been taken up by a number of SYRIZA speakers. What is the environment that comes to assist this bill? He won't solve the problems. Mr. Muzalas said so earlier. We have the greatest refugee crisis in Europe since the Second World War, a refugee crisis which is the result of the absurd choices but also of the interventions in the countries and peoples of the Middle East, the violation of human rights, the question of human life, the violation of the democratic rules of the functioning of societies. And we have a concrete example of the European Union's foreign policy failure. We must understand that in order to correct it, because we are interested in a Europe which defends not only its own peoples but also others. Because if it does not defend the values and rights of people as a whole, it pays it, as it now lives from the refugee crisis, which has not looked at it so far because it was "away from my home", "away from my court". You see, however, now what the impact of the unilateral, conservative, is, I would say, and a peculiar reading of the functioning of our society, that we should not deal with our neighbours as well. There was and there is a worldwide denial or, I would say, better, a devaluation of the peace project and the need for disarmament. This must also be returned to the political agenda for both Greece and Europe. Unfortunately, this bankruptcy in terms of both ideology and values is combined with the social and economic crisis that exists in Europe, with the austerity, but also with the great security crisis fuelled by fanaticism and terrorism. So Europe is in a nervous breakdown and embarrassment. And this embarrassment has succeeded a political schism that exists today in Europe and in the parties in Greece. And you live it, I suspect, with the different components in your reading of the refugee crisis and the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u434	And you don't have anyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u435	Austerity and fear fuel further conservativeization of policies. And when you bow to fear, you practically lead the world to the far right. You don't lead him to New Democracy. We sincerely want to discuss this in the context of our country's democratic arch. I think you should put aside the ideologies that lead to the logic that SYRIZA created the conflict in Syria. If that's possible! Aleppo and Palmyra were destroyed at the end of 2015, in early 2016. There were three and four million inhabitants, respectively. Since October 2015, flows began to grow. In August there was the first sample according to the High Commissioner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u436	When was the Kobani?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u437	Do you blame us for having the same thoughts as the European political leadership, which at least in this part, consistent with the urban revolution, is invoking democracy, equality, solidarity and the freedom of people? Are you blaming us for that? If that's possible! Don't make such a small policy. We believe that the answer is not fear. The answer is the recovery of hope. But the recovery of hope must also take place at the level of the economy. The economy must also operate for the benefit of the many, and not for the benefit of the few, because as long as it works for the benefit of the few, it increases the contradictions, it increases the discrepancies, it increases the fears. Faced with this dreadful crisis in Europe, we are tabling the proposal of the European acquis, that the problem must be solved uniformly at European level, that the problem will not be solved if Europe becomes a fortress and will not be solved if fences are built across borders. And Europe was tragically late to recognise the problem and formulate policies. We still think he's paying for this crisis. We, however, have made aggressive policy on the issue since the beginning of governance 2015. And when you make aggressive foreign policy, you win. And we did so by calling first of all for and by expressing the need to respect human rights and international conditions, as well as the Geneva Convention. At the same time, we did, claiming security for Greek citizens and Greek borders, because we from April and May 2015 called for the strengthening of the forces of FRONTEX, machinery, ships and personnel, who did not come from the weak to meet Europe. We and at forecast level were fine. At the same time, we first formulated and tabled the need to overcome solidarity, equality and respect for rights against fear and racist hatred, which, unfortunately, many people in Greece are glad to hear. And, of course, we up to the last European Union-Turkey summit have tabled the proposal that there should be a uniform solution in the European framework without unilateral action. And that was a single approach. Organised relocation and proportional burdens, the proposal, i.e. SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, was approved by the European Union in the agreement with Turkey. This is the greatest profit for us, because we were really too far behind and now there is a corridor for refugees, with respect for their rights. He's small, limited. It's not the best possible. However, we have achieved this policy in Europe and you are following it, as you have followed it at the Summit of Political Heads of State or Government. When the whole of Europe pleassssssssssss this solution, it is not wise to continue a small-party local reading to give a conservative audience. We warn you that when there are preservative bumpers, the Golden Dawn will throw a party to your voters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u438	Rupacia's house or outside?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u439	Mr President, I will also take the time of my dentistry. At the same time, we have to understand and accept that in our country we had to solve a problem. The numbers are overwhelming. Mrs Vassilis said so earlier, and Mrs Vassiliou said so. There were eighteen thousand pending asylum applications. Only 0.1% was considered. We're not saying he was rejected. He's just been tested. So the Asylum Service was nonexistent. In 2001-2010 there were seven thousand eight hundred applications with 0,1% applications, while with the Government of SYRIZA, ANEL and the Greens we had 46% of applications. In other words, the Asylum Service is working better with our own, limited powers. But there were other problems. I have recorded four judgments of the European Court of Justice against Greece: Tabesh 2009, Efremidi 2011, R.U 2010, M.S.S. 2009, D.L.S. Date of birth: (a) 2012. I testify the last one, which will obviously be of interest to you. It is about irregularities and violations of rights in August 2011, because the New Democracy recently requested. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But it's not just the ones that hurt us. We will be tabling other texts which lead us to take measures together, not to make opposition. There has been since 2014 the Commission's report on the implementation of the country's asylum and reception commitments, which is negative. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There has been since 2013 the European Commission's report on torture, inhuman and degrading conditions, complaints of conditions in detentions and pre-repeal centres. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is the report by the Magatopoulou Foundation, which also found serious illnesses and tragic detention conditions. Almondsa October 2014. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is, of course, also the report by the Citizens' Counselor, 2-8-2014: Adventure of minors along with adults. Inappropriate conditions, exceedances of a statutory detention limit. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's what we want to solve. We don't want to prove that we're changing everything now. We want to say that we need to take measures to improve the conditions, to have a country equivalent to Europe, which is consistent with its obligations, but to protect refugees, to protect its own security, its own democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u440	Are you saying this to Idomenis and Piraeus?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u441	We support our own democracy, when we decentralise the Asylum Services, when we also allow the border to operate, when we establish the second degree of examination, when we create a register of NGOs so that no parties can be held, and when we establish the European asylum framework, however, in procedures. Mr Kikilia, allow me, but I've been looking very hard to find what you submitted to the committee as well. Are there any positions for "logues"? Oh, no. The Asylum Service expressly states that it is conducted only - I repeat - by SAPA and by Article 2, which is staffing, but then. In Article 11, of course, it is also the reception service. So no rosphetti, no one goes through the window. Are all asylum applications accepted? Of course not. There is only the possibility for those who have made a second application, it is over five years until fifteen in Greece, they have been accused of nothing, they have done nothing wrong, they have no punishment, they and they alone have to pass, for humanitarian reasons, the procedure. Of course, the criminality of entry into the country of foreigners is not lifted. On the other hand, it is precisely the directive which says that those who apply for international protection are subject to these conditions, which have reservations on the islands and can sit up to twenty-five days and are dealt with in these circumstances. So what criminal offence, when under Article 14, says that those who enter without legal formalities are led by police authorities to the reception centres to check their application? So, and we protect the Greek state, but at the same time we protect the rights of applicants for international protection, because that is what the Treaties say, that we must protect these rights. There are too many things I have to say, but I have to close and I have to say that there is a specific division. On the one hand, you say that 'you have no safety', you blame us for having closed centres. On the other hand, you're telling us that the cops won't make it to the neighborhood. We're talking about hiring private companies to get better conditions. You blame us for that too. So what are you asking us for? Have security or have no security, or are you just looking for an excuse to make opposition? We say, therefore, that in these circumstances, with this administrative structure, we can and ensure that there are both organised structures and open hosting centres across the country and organised structures in the region, so that we can operate for the benefit of both the citizens of the country and the refugees. That is why we have achieved within four months, and we have forty thousand hosting places in thirty-five centres, when no hosting centre existed from the previous government. That's the problem. Because Mrs Bakoyannis asks: 'Why is Iromenis there?' But because there was no structure, no First Reception Service, no centre and no application for funding from Europe at all. That is the question we have to answer. To be consistent with each other, to organise the structures, because take note of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u442	Are you going to drive us crazy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u443	Please, quiet, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u444	This is the reality and we know that the organized structure in Idomeni, which was the passage of the illegal smugglers of Skopje...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u445	April!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u446	We would never have done it. But the rest of the threeteen centres did this government. And the hotpots of the islands did this government. We thank all the forces that have helped, both the Army and the Police and the NGOs and the Church and the people of solidarity. But why is it important that all of this - and I am closing, Mr President, if you'll excuse me - is it now? First of all, because this government and this Parliament can respond slowly and to difficult questions, such as how to join refugees' children in the Greek state, how to respond to the needs of knowledge in September. It may be temporary for six or eight months, but these children have the right to knowledge. I have to say to you that it turns out from the result that we may be late to be consistent, but with another government, with another mixture of your own DNA identity and with the different component of Adoni or Hatzidakis, then we would be very afraid of what the refugees would find in Greece, if they would find a Portican hunting them, if they would find "Farmaconnesia", if they would find "Amgdaleese". The calm and democratic management provided by the government and fuelled by solidarity is the guarantee that we are being exempted from extinction in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Femelle, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u448	It is the guarantee that we are going to a more democratic reading of this problem. That is why it is confirmed by Europe and it closes every word on what the future is, what the dynamics are, what stability is. This government can ensure both democratic rights and the functioning of citizens and the security of citizens. That is why it is firmly supported by society and can solve difficult problems, even after them, such as refugee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Mr. Femello. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and five educational sessions from the 87nd Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are giving the floor to the President of the River Parliamentary Group, Mr Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u450	It is a great temptation to respond to everything that is heard by the government, but because it is Friday afternoon, because we have said it before and because we believe that this issue has now been understood by the Greek society, I will try to be much more concise. For a long time now, we have also said that refugee is not available for small-scale exploitation, and we should treat it as a national issue, as a European worthy issue, of course, as a major humanity case, because it concerns millions of outdated people. So this is a European and international problem. Some solutions will give them - particularly those concerning infrastructure, centres, conditions for refugees and immigrants in our country, and of course, the conditions in which they exist in the neighbourhoods and villages of Greece - and some solutions must be found in Europe, which must in particular solve the problem of the prospect. Here, Europe has not even responded and should assume its responsibilities, as Greeks have assumed, the ordinary citizens on the islands and on the border, who have tried to cover, as they could, the inability of the state mechanism to respond to the fundamentals. However, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the government's majority is once again playing with fire. I have read the objections to the SYRIZA '53' component and I admit that I do not understand whether they have understood the criticality of the situation, that is to say if they have understood that our borders in the north have been closed down and that we really need to give priority to refugees policy and not to slap with refugees and immigrants, because afterward the missing in the case will be refugees. Obviously, they move to the Constitution and Koumoundourou and ignore what is going on in Chios, Kos, Lesvos, Piraeus and Idomeni, and, from what I have heard, they want far slower re-promotion procedures, without understanding, ladies and gentlemen, because if the 14 days become a hundred and fourteen, Turkey will automatically become a safe country. Will time make Turkey a safe country? I think - and it is clear - that some have lost everything in the great battles they wanted to fight for the economy and society and are depleting their leftlessness on the backs of the refugees. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] However, things are beginning to get out of hand and there is a risk that the cooperation of local societies will be lost, because the local communities are beginning to feel that we have thrown them a hot potato and let them out of here and beyond to get the snake out of the hole. Instead of the sad images we live in Idomeni, Chios, Piraeus to shake the government down to do some specific things, she repeats the same mistakes. I spoke to the people in Chios a little while ago. You would know that the refugees left the hotspot, left it and have spread to the villages and cities. The police behind them are looking to see who they are and who they're coming back to. The other phenomenon is violence in the camps, in the port, in Idomeni. If we let violence prevail in the camps, it will be very difficult for both refugees and immigrants and local communities. There has to be a plan to stop this situation today, now, immediately and not tomorrow, perhaps in a bourgeois society. We are talking about today, where there are conflicts. I would like to talk a little bit about two three economic issues that have raised interest in us, because there is a lot to be said about economic toys on the back of refugees, such as refugees who are being sent first to the hotels of some of the 'friends' of the system. Names of the state of ANEL in Argolida and elsewhere are being heard. There is also the complaint of SYRIZA MPs who dared to ask Mr. Kammenos, because he was chosen, the feeding of refugees on the islands to be from companies in Athens and not from local companies present on the islands. It is a question of our own. There are also a few more questions that should concern us, because beware of what has happened, ladies and gentlemen: since for months the entire government has not gone ahead with the procedures for the creation of hotspots, ultimately, under the real threat of dismissal from the Schengen Agreement, it has made one day's competitions, foot contests, nothing but fair. And what we're learning now, be careful. Let me give you some pictures and tell you a little story. For the hotspot of Chios I don't know if you have a picture. We learned that there a company from Argyroupoli took 854,000 euros, almost 1 million, to build the hotspot. Well, that makes sense. Be careful, however: The thirty acres the municipality gave them. Yes, sir! The containers for the installation of all refugees, all containers, are donations of Greek oil and have been notified. The rest of the papers were taken over by the lanterns. Be careful, the papers from the newspaper "CULITI" show that the lanterns wipe, the lanterns carry the beds - and what beds, beds from barracks, whoever has gone to a lantern can identify the double beds of the Army - they settle them, clean the spaces, level them up and create the hotspot. So there is one question in the local society of Chios: The 850 grand why were they given to a company in Argiroupolis? The contractor came from Athens. The workers came from Athens. Most people, and the contractor, by the local authorities, had no contract of employment, that the jobs were without invoices. So there is one question to the government and we need an answer, before we go to the other hotspots, because similar things are also reported for other hotspots. Are you spared the money and throwing away a million dollars for something the Greek Army is making and donating some companies? Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this almost a year now and I will not stop saying that: it takes a national policy on refugee, which is why I have gone to the President of the Republic. But a plan with consensus is needed, with people with wider acceptance and, above all, with tested skills. We'll insist. Our proposal has been one, a long time ago. There must be a single coordination centre and a Deputy Minister. What Mr Tsipras is trying to do today, a coordinating centre, and say that he will run it himself, creates irreorganisation over chaos. It needs the government to decide to face, not the virtual reality, which has in mind the problem, but the reality we live in. It is good what we say on the channels, but the problems on the islands, on the border, in the neighbourhoods of Athens want concrete acts, no theories, no ideologies. And I think that if we keep going like this, we're going over the muds of the government's reorganisation, we're going to enable the dark forces to wake up, at a time when the world is going through a difficult time, there's an economic crisis and it's too easy to fall into the nails of the dark forces. For the last time here, from this House, in a bill that should have come at least eight months earlier - but which we will still say 'NAH' in principle and will vote against the articles, which do not give solutions, by voting only on the articles that we believe improve somewhat the situation with the help of the European Union - we call on the government to leave communications tricks, to mobilise, to govern, to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u451	Thank you to the President of the River Parliamentary Group. Last speaker before the vote is the Independent MEP, Efstathos Panagolis. Here, Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u452	Mr President, we are in 2016. We are at the top of technology. However, we do not communicate with our fellow man. He's born next to us and rotting in mudwater and rain. It is shocking to see pictures of TVs every day. We have returned, ladies and gentlemen, in the Middle Ages. What are we going to do with it when we see this drama in our country, but also in other European countries? I would like to say that once again the government has established the 'urgent' and 'urgent'. And I must say this: since the last elections in September to today, so many urgent and urgent bills have come to us, what had not come to previous governments. Yesterday morning we were invited to attend the parliamentary committee this afternoon to look at this bill and today at 10 a.m., ten hours later, we came to plenary to vote. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that in March this House held four or five meetings? Wasn't there time at the beginning of March, at the end of February, to come this bill and have the opportunity to say our views with specific elements? I say from the outset, ladies and gentlemen, that I will vote against the bill, in addition to Article 67 and certain articles, to which I shall state 'PARATIONS'. Minister, we don't know each other. You will allow me to question the number of inputs in our country. Today the papers you made speak of fifty-two thousand and something. Today, by 7:30, they reached Lesvos a hundred twenty - eight and two hundred eleven in Chios until the same time. Do you know, Mr Minister, or have your servants informed you that seven hundred metres from the Greek Parliament, seven hundred meters from the Constitution, has been operating for six days, a centre that has raised three hundred refugees and immigrants and that there has been a NGOs? Do you know where, Minister? Faced with the French Institute in Prassa Street, near Sina, where a school was not working. There, then, are currently three hundred fifty refugees and immigrants, of whom fifty are children. That's why I question the streams and numbers you give. I am not saying that you are doing so intentionally, especially you, but I say that there is no responsibility here. Why was Idomen created? Why was the port of Piraeus created? Because there's a cuff. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you know that right now, Minister, in Chios have people gathered in the port and want to come to Piraeus? Right now we're talking. That's the reality. The refugee issue, ladies and gentlemen, was created by the United States and NATO, and the Greek Government invited them to come here to the Aegean. If he had done so by another government, a conservative government, the universe would have risen up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will give me two, three minutes of speaking time. Who created the wars in Syria, Afghanistan, Libya, Iraq, who told us that there are nuclear weapons, have broken up the entire country and nuclear weapons have not been found? Mr President, I would also like to say something about NGOs. Most of them - we do not want to level them all - are of doubtful quality and feasibility. Here, Minister, as I have told you, seven hundred meters from the House building has become a centre - which you do not have in this situation here, here you have forty-nine centres, of which the forty-two are active, and you know that to avoid mentioning them - and this particular centre that is here in the Constitution has been established by a NGOs. You are obligated, Minister, you and your staff, that the government finally give information on what these NGOs are dealing with this issue. Those of you who have been involved, Minister, in immigration - I do not want to touch on you personally, I do not want to say that you have shown incompetence - did not do as the job should. Why would you let Idomen go 15 thousand? When the first thousand people went, they should have been received and taken to other centres. Why does the port of Piraeus have an image of shamefulness for the country, for our culture and, in particular, for democracy? For the reasons I mentioned, Mr President, I do not want to mention the way in which the feeding is being done, which humiliates human dignity. The TVs first showed a truck that threw hands on desperate people who had lifted up various foods. At least, let us make sure that there is a humanity and solidarity with these oppressed people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u453	Thank you to the Independent MEP, Mr. Efstathios Panagoulis. The floor has been asked for a minute by the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos, to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, it is a fact that we do not have time for dentistry because of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u455	Please be quiet if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u456	And because we will have a roll-call vote, I would like to say this: Article 22, which is granting a residence permit for humanitarian reasons, concerned those who have applied for asylum since 2011 and then is pending to a second degree. So you gave them a residence permit for humanitarian reasons, except for those who had been sentenced for various offences, up to at least three years. We intended to vote in favour of this article, to vote 'NAH'. But you changed it. In the three years you have made them a year, i.e. just crimes, removing this possibility for a number of people. We don't agree. If you change it, if you bring it into its original form, we will vote. If not, then we will be expressing ourselves with the 'PARON'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction is finalised: ‘Organisation and functioning of the Asylum Service, the Authority of Appeals, the Reception and Identifying Service, the establishment of the General Secretariat for Reception, the adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on common procedures for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection (recast)’ (L 180/29.6.2013), provisions on the work of beneficiaries of international protection and other provisions’, and their vote will be taken separately. In order to vote on the bill on the principle and some articles, three motions for roll-call votes have been tabled, one request from Members of the New Democracy, one request from Members of the People's League - Golden Dawn and one request from Members of the Communist Party of Greece. New Democracy has applied for a roll-call vote on Articles 5, 7, 8, 11, 22, 46 and 72; former Articles 75, 76 and 76 of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u458	Mr President, not 8, 7.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u459	I read it to you as it has been tabled. We're not saying anything else. [[Noise in the Chamber]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[TO TAKE PAGE 436 a, 436 b]] [[TAKE PAGE 438 a, 438 b]] [[TAKE PAGE 440 a, 440 b]] A little quiet, please, so we don't make a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u460	Okay, I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u461	This concerns the submission of a request from the New Democracy. Then I'll read about the rest of the parties. Now we're in New Democracy. The New Democracy has therefore submitted a request for a roll-call vote on Articles 5, 7, 8, 11, 22, 46 and 72; former Articles 75, 76 and 76 of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u462	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Dendias Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Antoniadis John. Here you go. Mr. Bukouros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Tsiaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Mrs. Vultish Sophia. Here. Mr. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Mr. Stamatis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs Martinou Georgia. Here. Mr. Yoyakas Vassilis. Here you go. Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Mr. Kyriazidis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Georgios George. Here you go. Mr. Metarakis Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Kikilias Vassilis. Here you go. Mr. Giannakis Stergios. Here you go. Mr. Vlassis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Kavadas Athanasios. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure of signatories to request a roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. An application for a roll-call vote has also been submitted in principle and on Articles 10, 19, 22, 43, 45, 46, 67 and 73; former Article 78; draft law, by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u463	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Michaeliakos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vlachos Salvation. Here. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. Here. Mr. Ilioopoulos Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Caracos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Koukoutsis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Michos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Mr. Poppa Christos. Here you go. Mr. Shahinides John. Here you go. Mr. Hajisavasavas Christos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Finally, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on Articles 39, 41, 46, 54, 55, 56, 57 and 60 of the Members of the Communist Party of Greece whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u464	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Bardale Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Moraitis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Steerios Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Tassos Stavros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u465	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Do you accept the roll-call votes provided for in the Rules of Procedure in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u466	The House has agreed. Therefore, a roll-call vote will take place on the principle and on Articles 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 19, 22, 39, 41, 43, 45, 46, 54, 55, 56, 57, 60, 67, 72 and 73 of the draft law. Receiving the principle and articles of the bill say ‘HA’. Not accepting the principle and articles of the bill say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. MEP Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy are on the list. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which makes their vote known at the beginning of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement before we proceed to the roll-call vote. The Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr Vitsats submitted a documentary, which is available to all Members and has the title “Contests for needs, feeding hosting centres, 1-4-2016”. It's just that file.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u467	We need a copy, too, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u468	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u469	What do you want, Mr. Carras?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u470	Mr President, we need a list to know what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u471	Mr President, one minute to facilitate the vote, so that there is no confusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u472	Ladies and gentlemen, please. Mr Tindemans wishes to express an opinion on the facilitation of the vote. We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u473	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me for a second. In order to avoid confusion, which is due to the continuous renumbering of articles by the government, since the articles have been renumbered three times, I declare that the New Democracy has submitted a request for a roll-call vote for Articles 5, 7, 8, 11, 22, 46 and 72. On this point, the New Democracy is obviously voting 'ON'. The New Republic shall vote 'NAI' only on Articles 18, 23, 24, 33 to 45 and 47 to 66.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u474	Mr. Dendia, I'm sorry. What you said, do you have the kindness to repeat them to mark them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u475	Sure. The New Republic shall, by means of a request for a nominal vote, vote 'TO' in Articles 5, 7, 8, 11, 22, 46 and 72. We only vote 'YES' in Articles 18, 23, 24, 33 to 45, 47 to 66, 73 and 75. Is that clear? In all other ‘OTH’. In the first place, we are obviously voting 'NO'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u476	What are these things? What's going on here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u477	There's no other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u478	Please, let us move on. I would ask the House to allow the Attica, I and II of Athens and I and II of Piraeus to precede the province's MPs. To develop a little reasoning. It is quite accidental that the names of the MPs of Attica and Athens, who start with A, take precedence, because we could start from X, for example, or from F. [[Applause]] So the proposal and the request is that the MPs of the islands should first take the lead, of northern Greece and of other regions, asking for understanding and thanking the Members of Athens and Piraeus. Thank you very much. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Of course, there are four or five Members who, for reasons of force majeure, such as funerals, etc., will precede them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u479	No funerals today. There's no funerals at night. The funerals are in the morning, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u480	We've checked it out. We have a list of planes, etc. They're a few people. Let's move on. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u481	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[TAKE PAGE 452, 453, 454, 455, 456, 457, 458, 459, 460, 461]] The letters, which have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u482	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we are told that they are absent from today's roll-call vote and that if they were present they would vote in accordance with the vote of their parliamentary group. Also, Mr. Konsolas, Mr. Meimarakis, Mr. Pssakakis and Mr. Aygeakis are absent from today's roll-call vote and by letter they are told that if they were present they would vote 'OH'. Finally, Mr Papachristopoulos and Mr Zouraris are absent from today's roll-call vote and by letter they are told that if they were present they would vote "NAI". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not counted against the counting of votes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u483	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the electorate to count the votes and to export the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Meanwhile, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-one students and two teachers from the Municipal School of Scottish Serres, the Municipal School of Pits of Heraklion and the Municipal School of Voron Heraklion. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] [[After REMUNERATION]] If you have no objection, we can vote on the remaining articles other than those of the roll-call vote. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u484	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u485	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u486	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u487	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u488	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u489	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u490	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u491	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u492	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u493	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u494	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u495	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u496	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u497	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u498	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u499	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u500	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u501	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u502	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u504	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u505	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u506	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u507	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u509	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u510	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u511	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u512	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u514	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u515	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u516	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u518	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u520	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u521	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u522	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u523	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u524	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u525	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u527	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u528	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u529	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u530	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u531	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u533	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u535	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u536	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u537	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u538	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u539	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u541	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u542	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u543	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u545	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u546	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u547	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u548	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u549	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u551	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u552	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u553	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u554	Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u555	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u558	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u559	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u561	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u563	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u564	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u565	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u566	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u567	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u568	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u569	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u570	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u571	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u572	Article 24 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u573	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u574	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u575	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u576	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u577	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u578	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u579	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u580	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u581	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u582	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u583	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u584	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u585	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u586	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u587	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u588	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u589	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u590	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u591	Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u592	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u593	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u594	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u595	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u596	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u597	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u598	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u599	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u600	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u601	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u602	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u603	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u604	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u605	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u606	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u607	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u608	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u609	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u610	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u611	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u612	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u613	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u614	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u615	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u616	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 32 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u617	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u618	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u619	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u620	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u621	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u622	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u623	Article 32 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u624	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u625	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u626	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u627	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u628	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u629	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u630	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u631	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u632	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u633	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u634	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u635	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u636	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u638	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u639	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u640	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u641	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u642	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u644	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u645	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u647	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u648	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u650	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u651	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u653	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u654	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u656	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u657	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u659	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u660	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u661	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u662	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u663	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u664	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u665	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u666	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u667	Article 52 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u668	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u669	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u670	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u671	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u672	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u673	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u674	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u675	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u676	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u677	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u678	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u679	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u680	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u681	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u682	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u683	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u684	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u685	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u686	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u688	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u689	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u690	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u691	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u692	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u693	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u694	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u695	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u696	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u697	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u698	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u699	Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u700	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u701	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u703	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u704	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u705	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u707	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u708	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u709	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u711	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Is Rule 74, which states that Article 79, as amended by the Minister, is to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u712	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u713	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u714	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u717	Article 74 of the former Articles 79 and 80 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House agree that Article 75 - ex Article 81 - as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u718	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u719	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u720	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u721	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u722	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u723	Article 75 - ex Article 81 - was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House agree that Article 76, ex-Section 82, as amended by the Minister, is to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u724	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u725	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u726	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u727	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u728	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u729	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u730	Article 76, ex Article 82, was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House agree that Article 77- former Article 83, as amended by the Minister, is to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u731	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u732	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u733	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u734	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u735	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u737	Article 77, ex Article 83, was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Is Rule 78 ex-Serious Article 84 accepted - as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u738	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u739	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u740	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u742	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u744	Article 78 - ex Article 84 - was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Is Rule 79 ex-Serious Article 85 acceptable?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u745	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u746	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u747	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u748	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u749	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u750	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u751	Article 79 - ex Article 85 - was therefore accepted as being majority. Is Rule 80 - ex-ex Article 86 acceptable - as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u752	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u753	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u755	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u756	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u757	Article 80 - ex Article 86 - was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 81 - ex-sex Article 87 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u758	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u759	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u760	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u761	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u762	Article 81 - ex Article 87 - was therefore accepted by a majority. Is Rule 82 ex-post Article 88 acceptable - as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u763	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u764	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u765	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u766	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u767	Article 82 ex Article 88 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Pending the outcome of the roll-call vote, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERYOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organised and operated, forty-two students and students and four of their educational sessions from the High School of Litha Zakynthos. The House welcomes them. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organised and operated, forty-four students and students and five educational attendants from the 1st Experimental Gymnasium of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u768	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 276 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the bill, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 169 MPs. Against the start of the bill, namely 'OH', they voted 107 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Organisation and Operation of the Asylum Service, Appeals Authority, Reception and Identification Service, Establishment of a General Secretariat for Reception, Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on common procedures for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection (recast)’ (L 180/29.6.2013), provisions on the work of beneficiaries of international protection and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. With regard to the results of the roll-call vote on the articles: Article 5 of the draft law. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 161 Members. Against this article, 99 Members voted against. They voted for 16 MPs. Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 7 of the draft law. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 161 Members. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 115 Members. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 8 of the draft law. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'Notice', they voted 107 Members. They voted for 11 Members. Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 10 of the draft law. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against the article, namely 'NO', they voted 107 Members. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 11 of the draft law. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 150 Members. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 115 Members. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 19 of the draft law. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 155 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 105 Members. 'PARON' were voted 16 MPs. Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 22 of the draft law. In favour of the article, namely 'NAH', 174 Members voted. Against the article 'Notice', 86 Members voted. 'PARON' were voted 16 MPs. Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 39 of the draft law. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 242 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'Notice', 34 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 41 of the draft law. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 242 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'Notice', 34 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 43 of the draft law. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 237 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', 18 Members voted. 'PARON' they voted 21 MPs. Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 45 of the draft law. In favour of Rule 45, i.e. 'NAH', 242 Members voted. Against Rule 45, i.e. 'NOV', 18 Members voted. 'PARON' were voted 16 MPs. Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 46 of the draft law. In favour of Rule 46, i.e. 'NAH', 174 Members voted. Against Rule 46, i.e. 'NO', they voted 102 Members. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 46 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 54 of the draft law. In favour of Rule 54, i.e. 'NAH', 242 Members voted. Against Rule 54, i.e. 'NO', 34 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 55 of the draft law. In favour of Rule 55, i.e. 'NAH', 242 Members voted. Against Rule 55, i.e. 'NO', 34 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 56 of the draft law. In favour of Rule 56, i.e. 'NAH', 242 Members voted. Against Rule 56, i.e. 'NO', 34 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 57 of the draft law. In favour of Rule 57, i.e. 'NAH', 242 Members voted. Against Rule 57, i.e. 'NO', 34 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 60 of the draft law. In favour of Rule 60, i.e. 'NAH', 229 Members voted. Against Rule 60, i.e. 'Notice', 46 Members voted. "PARON" voted 1 Member. Article 60 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 67 of the draft law. In favour of Rule 67, i.e. 'NAH', 185 Members voted. Against Rule 67, i.e. 'OH', 86 Members voted. "PARON" have voted 5 MPs. Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 72 - ex 75, 76, 77 - of the draft law. In favour of Rule 72, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 150 Members. Against Rule 72, i.e. 'NO', they voted 94 MPs. 'PARON' 32 MPs voted. Article 72- ex 75, 76, 77 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority. Article 73 - formerly 78 - of the draft law. In favour of Rule 73, i.e. 'NAH', 231 Members voted. Against Rule 73, i.e. 'Notice', 34 Members voted. "PARON" 11 MPs voted. Article 73 - formerly 78 - was therefore accepted as being majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u769	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Will the office be accepted as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u770	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u771	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u772	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u773	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u774	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Organisation and Operation of the Asylum Service, Appeals Authority, Reception and Identification Service, Establishment of a General Secretariat for Reception, Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on common procedures for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection (recast)’ (L 180/29.6.2013), provisions on the work of beneficiaries of international protection and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in principle and on the articles. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u775	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u776	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u777	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u778	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u779	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u780	The draft law was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘Organisation and Operation of the Asylum Service, Appeals Authority, Reception and Identification Service, Establishment of a General Secretariat for Reception, Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on common procedures for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection (recast)’ (L 180/29.6.2013), provisions on the work of beneficiaries of international protection and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u781	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u782	The requested authorisation was granted. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-01-S1-commons.u783	With the consent of the House at 20.32 p.m. the sitting on Monday, April 4, 2016 at 17.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed. Topical and urgent debate
