ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The first question under number 735/4-2016 will be discussed first cycle of MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the Rural Development Programme in Karditsa. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Apostleu, will answer. Please have the floor, Mr. Katsavria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am sure you recognise the incredible difficulties faced by people who live and work hard in the countryside, farmers and farmers. I am also sure of your intentions, but also your inconvenient efforts, to inspire farmers the optimism and faith in their land and their future. Greek farmers and farmers experience the consequences of the crisis and the austerity that have led to unprecedented recession, unemployment, a reduction in incomes and a reduction in social benefits. Recovery and ultimately growth require the change of economic model and the use of all available tools to promote it. The strategy for rural and livestock development is mainly based on Community resources, through the ESDP and the ESDP, for the new programming period 2014-2020. Minister, cotton farming is the main crop in Thessaly and in the Karditsas Prefecture, employs many rural families and brings together a large number of ginning enterprises, which employ a significant number of workers. Thus, the product for our county is an important source of economic inputs and employment. The county is faced with a problem of water shortages, irrigation to maintain productivity, especially of large crops such as cotton, corn, beet and fodder plants, such as nil. Thus, the completion of the irrigation network as an infrastructure project is of great importance to the county. The construction of closed networks will help to save energy, reduce water losses and increase the available irrigable areas, economically alleviating the producers affected. Replacement of old irrigation irrigation systems will significantly reduce water consumption, contribute to the reduction of nitrate pollution and fertiliser use while contributing to an increase in crop productivity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So I ask you, Minister, the following: Firstly, what action will you take to make Community funds available effectively? How is the implementation of the strategic planning linked to the implementation of the new CAP and how effective is the information given to farmers in order to make effective use of all kinds of incentives? Secondly, what is the amount of resources in the Cardiff County? What projects have been planned and what is the timetable for their implementation? In particular, as regards cotton growing, which, due to its low competitiveness, is constantly decreasing, what measure of the PAA will support its sustainability, improve its quality and better organisation of production? Thirdly, what measure will the infrastructure projects be included, in particular the completion of the construction of an enclosed network of Smokov Lake and the promotion of the installation of irrigation systems and the incentives for producers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u4	Dear colleague, our country's new Rural Development Programme, to which you referred in detail, was approved by the European Commission on 11-12-2015. We do not need to be paradoxical about why and how this programme was adopted. This is a national programme involving all the regions of the country, with a total Community contribution of EUR 4.7 billion and is expected to resurrect a total of over EUR 7 billion. A key priority, among other things, is the strategy to serve the country's rural development by strengthening the competitiveness and productivity of the agri-food system, as well as of course the chain of domestic agricultural products. The potential of the new Rural Development Programme is many. They include infrastructure investments to reduce input costs, including even the use of renewable energy sources - this intervention is very important - as well as the adoption of new technologies. They also support - I stress this - the encouragement of producers' participation in healthy collective schemes, groups, producer organisations, even through their operating costs, as well as through incentives for investment. We will, of course, discuss these in the next few days. Tomorrow the committee enters the relevant bill on the framework of cooperation, where there will be a detailed report on these issues as well. A number of measures have been planned in the Rural Development Programme. Management at regional level has been given to some of these measures. We have significantly increased the region's participation in these measures, which means that the invitations and the selection of projects will be made in each region separately. However, I would like to point out that individual projects are not planned in each region. Proposals are submitted by all potential beneficiaries and on the basis of predetermined selection criteria and, of course, of the comparative assessment to be carried out, eventually which projects will be financed. It should be noted, however, that special attention will be paid to strengthening the livestock sector. Farmers, dairy cow farmers and sheep farmers will, among other things, be able to carry out investment projects in both the primary and secondary sectors, as well as the possibility of training and consulting services in order to make their holdings competitive. This is a question of how we will better communicate the Rural Development Programme. We are entering such a process, particularly at the moment, but it is also important that the consultants who will be involved in this programme play an important role. With regard to the works you refer to Karditsa and Thessaly, because you have placed great weight on the part of irrigation, I will say them in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u5	Please, Mrs Katsavria, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u6	Minister, your answer shows the Government's firm will to highlight the primary sector in a key pillar of the economy. However, I would like to highlight the most important factor in the agony of the farmer and the farmer for the cost of production, because this ultimately determines all the other sizes. What concerns us here - and in particular Carditsa, where I come from - is how the Rural Development Programme can affect production costs and support the sustainability of agricultural products which are of great importance to the national and local economy, such as cotton. The creation of a ringer for the cotton industry may be a solution to cooperate with all the members of the chain - producers, ginning companies and clones - in order to produce a quality, competitive product, with goodwill and lower production costs, which meets the requirements of the market. A country-wide information campaign for cotton producers can be carried out through this programme. The importance of participatory cooperation and the creation of collective production schemes - which, as you said, will also enter Parliament in the next bill - is the only way to produce a competitive product with added value and reduced costs. This example has been followed with great success by other countries such as Australia, Spain, the United States of America. With collective schemes farmers have a great deal of negotiating power, lower prices on the farmland market and better prices on the sale of their products. For the implementation of such a programme, Minister, the National Cotton Center based in Carditsa has done the necessary preparation. And that is what I think we need to take seriously. One issue, of course, is the level of resources and their adequacy. The big question, however, is the intervention of the Ministry in a number of areas which are not very few, given that there are years of problems for which the previous governments have been unsuccessful. For example, I would like to list these problems: Restructuring of the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the relevant services on a case-by-case basis by other ministries, bodies and agencies. It should be clarified, in other words, who does what, how, when and why. For example, water policy is an example. Payment of aid from previous programmes. Integrated and reliable information for farmers by establishing rural service centres. Encouraging employment in the primary sector and establishing standards, sustainable agricultural holdings. Educational support, in particular to young farmers, through the use of research centres in universities and TEIs geared to innovation, increased value added, competitiveness and productivity of agricultural products. Simplify and accelerate approval and integration procedures for all types of development and investment projects. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please give me a minute. OPEKEPE sounding, strengthening cooperative banks, shaping the institutional framework for collective initiatives, cooperatives and synergies. Finally, Minister, as I have said in my prototype, it is the question of infrastructure projects. Energy, water and the environment are public goods which without them any strategic plan for rural development is a letter empty. The formation of corresponding policies is the responsibility of the State at all levels, local, regional and national. It is common belief that the direct shift towards mature and effective projects can give wings to development. For example, the completion of the Smokov Lake's irrigation network and the corresponding planning and planning for Plastira Lake, together with modern irrigation methods, would make the discussion on Karditsa's water balances more unnecessary and the transport of water from other sources.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u7	Please, please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u8	Unfortunately, however, it happens that both your Ministry and the Ministry of Infrastructure will not make it clear which of the two will take care of it. That is why I spoke to you earlier about the need to clarify who takes responsibility and why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u9	Please finish, Mrs. Katsavria!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, it is four questions. Let my colleague speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u11	It's not four, Mr. Nicolopoulos, it's fourteen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u12	I should like to stress, of course, that in any event, my reference is not a criticism of you, but an appeal to remove all those obstacles that have brought against rural development in the past, either the inability or the feasibility of the parties to the dispute. I look forward to having some good news for our farmers, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u13	Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u14	Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, you have of course raised many issues. We all want to hear good news, you listen to them and we talk about them. However, we have a reality that we are trying to exploit as much as possible. In this case too, because we are talking in particular about the Rural Development Programme, as I have said, we give you particular weight to the issues of irrigation in general in Thessaly. Of course, because there were specific projects already in the previous programme - and I am referring specifically to the construction of water transport and distribution projects from the Carla Lake - we have had a cost of around EUR 30 000 000. They have already been absorbed from the previous programme around EUR 16 million. As far as the rest is concerned, already in the new Rural Development Programme, it is estimated that commitments have been made, which means that the implementation will immediately begin to complete this project. Of course, there are other projects - particularly small projects - which have balances, which will also go to unsuccessful obligations, which exceed EUR 2 million. I'm going to testify to a situation where you can find out why time doesn't allow us. What I particularly want to stress about Carditsa is that there is a provision for the funding programmes relating to participatory operations, the participatory schemes, the so-called closters. There is also action by the Ministry of Rural Development, in consultation with the Ministry of Infrastructure, which has this activity under its responsibility, concerning the completion of the Smokov Lake irrigation network. Furthermore, because the issue of water waste reduction studies and, more generally, of water supply management is very important, we are already in the process of entrusting studies. In particular, the issue you raised, which concerns the simplification of the procedure for approving investment projects for slow irrigation, is a matter that we are concerned with. Now, with regard to the more general issues concerning payments and delays, you know that we are fighting a great battle, a battle that has to deal with the charges and fines that are already dragging and dragging as it seems. However, our aim is to put some order in order, and I think that things are already going very well in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: 'Statification of the Air Services Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of New Zealand'. I would also like to inform you that today is fourteen topical questions, and there will be no debate, for several reasons, of nineteen topical questions. In particular, the following topical questions are not discussed: The fourth under number 723/29-3-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on measures to stimulate tourism in the islands of the eastern Aegean, due to the impediment of the Minister. The seventh under number 726/1-4-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the removal of Greek citizenship from the ex-SRF. The third, with number 724/31-3-2016, is a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the lack of strategic planning to deal with the refugee problem, delays in disbursement of European funds and the failure to implement the law granting Greek citizenship. The second question, number 729/1-4-2016, is the second question of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the establishment of a Centre for Immigration of Immigrants at the Karditsa Police School. Eleventh question under number 594/29-2-2016 (Second Chamber of Deputies) of the New Democracy MP Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Health on the Merger Plan - Elimination of Health Care Units. The fourteenth under number 677/18-3-2016 topical question of the second Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Foreign Minister, on the "delay of the inauguration of the Greek fighters of 1940 in Albania". The sixteenth, under number 615/3-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the possible establishment of offices of Turkish Organization in Greece. The eighteenth under number 614/3-2016 topical question for a second question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the 'creating the climate of tension and the methods of the Turkish consulate in Thrace'. The ninth ninth with number 583/26-2-2016 topical question of the second Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign Minister, on the "delegation of the name of Macedonia to the Skopje". The sixth under No. 732/4-2016 topical question by MP Larissa of Potamio Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, concerning the long-term expectation of radiation therapy in public hospitals in the country. The tenth third under number 675-3-2016 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliamentary of the New Democracy, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Health, on the subsistence of the General Hospital of Rhodes and the problems of functioning in neural areas. The fifteenth under number 606/1-3-2016 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Prussakis to the Minister of Health, on the need for a direct staffing of the Xanthi Hospital's radiodiagnostic clinic. The seventeenth under number 621/7-2016 topical question of the second question of the MEP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Minister of Health on the project of the construction of the new wing of the Amalada Hospital. The 20th under number 686/21-3-2016 topical question from the F' Vice President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Cremastinos to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Emergency Department of the Rhodes Hospital. The 20th two, with number 625/7-3-2016, a topical question by the MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, concerning the shortcomings in the hospital and, more generally, in the public health sector in Lesvos. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health about the establishment of an ambulance at the Rafina Health Center. The fourth under number 733/4-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Heraklion of the River, Mr Spyridon Dannel, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the decision of the European Parliament Committee on Budgets to transfer the administrative arm of the European Network and Communication Safety Agency (ENISA) from Heraklion to Athens. Eighth No. 731/1-4-2016 topical question for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I of the Union of Centres Mr. Marios Georgiadis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the Athens and Epidaurus festival, due to the absence of the Minister abroad. The 20th under number 545/15-2-2016 a topical question for the second parliamentary Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of Health on the problems of operation in the EKAB. Nineteen questions, that is, are not discussed. The sixth question will be discussed under number 719/29-3-2016, the second question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks, Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problems faced by the cow farming and dairy production sector. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is an extremely serious matter. Let me remind you here that we are going to implement a paragraph, an agreement made by the Government of New Democracy and PASOK on the OECD milk tool box, for the days. I'll tell you about the Minutes. Mr Athanasopoulos of IOBE, when he arrived, answered my question that the OECD toolbox was paid to IOBE and written. It wasn't written by Greek Ministry. IOBE paid to give it to the OECD to bring us here. I'm saying that for the Minutes. The situation is very serious. We get messages from all over Greece from both meat producers and milk producers. I won't read the question because it's in the Minutes. I shall mention some very important points. We now have a thorn import of milk, especially from neighbouring Balkan countries, at a cost of 32 and 33 minutes per litre, when the Greek producer costs 42 to 43 minutes per litre. The milk and meat controls have been stopped, so we've got sloppy imports. Domestic consumption, as well as increasing consumption, has reached 1.3 to 1.4 million tonnes in milk and yoghurt, while domestic production is 700,000 tons and tends to 500,000 tons. The increase in the days of milk consumption from five to seven days, and if it comes to all eleven, such as the 'agreement' - I put it in introductory terms, because we should discuss whether this agreement will also apply to the interests of the Greek economy - it will obviously increase the situation much more. At the same time, there are very serious issues about the costs of Greek producers, such as increasing energy costs, increasing parametric costs, such as the ENPHIA of warehouses, such as the doubling of almost doubled feed and many fertilisers, such as financial costs. Dairy industries are late and late to pay, because there is also financial narrowness from milk producers or meat producers, so the entire meat, milk and yoghurt industry in Greece is inclined to extinction and to replace imported products. So, Mr Minister, how do you intend to protect milk producers whose industry, because of the countless problems, leads to mathematical accuracy in extinction? When are subsidies expected to be paid to producers in order to address the liquidity problems, as I have explained, in the industry leading to reduced production? What are the responsibilities of the previous governments that have introduced the extension of raw milk from the five days to the seven days and ultimately over eleven and will lead to the gradual disappearance of the sector? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Mr. Apostle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, all you have said is quite right. I will not avoid putting myself in the problem arising from the amendment of the Code of Food and Drinks concerning yoghurt. I want to tell you, we certainly didn't like it. It must be understood, however, that this matter has not arisen now. It was an obligation within the framework of the memorandum from 2013 on the basis of OECD toolboxes. And I won't argue about what you said, how this toolbox was drawn up. But not all of us forget that we are necessarily implementing this regulation for the simple reason that it is prerequisite under the agreement signed by our country with the lenders. This is another reason, however, and we must also take it into account in supporting cows, a sector which, ladies and gentlemen, especially at this time, is under strong pressure within Europe, in the context of which I would say - and the crisis situations at European level and, of course, the crisis situations that our country is experiencing. That is why we have already drawn up a plan to control the market throughout the whole chain, from production to marketing - it is what we say the whole chain, from stables, from the field to the consumer shelf - so that there can be no Greekizations, tax evasion, shamefulness and misinterpretation of the consumer, which indeed exists. That is why, within the framework of the Ministry of Rural Development and in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, the interconnection of digital bases for the more effective control of traceability - this problem - all stages of the movement and marketing of milk products is being carried out. At the same time, because these problems are less or more present throughout Europe, we are really fighting for them. And I would tell you that in particular in the last Councils of Agriculture Ministers there is a systematic reference to some of the conditions that we consider to be ours, especially for the industry, very importantly and can help: Firstly, compulsory labelling of milk and milk products, which operates in the direction of improving market transparency. The practical support for producers' negotiating power through support for collective structures. A system certainly needs to be established at the level of the European Commission and to supervise a mechanism that will balance dairy production in all countries across the backs and lengths of the European Union. At the level of Europe, too, apply a code of conduct to trade relations on this subject. Because, especially after the abolition of quotas, there is overproduction which is pressing on the consumer's prices and, of course, too many countries, having less production costs, have reached so much price pressure, which is what we are experiencing. It is absolutely essential that the European Union itself should deal with them. There are, my dear fellow Members, too many discussions at European Union level. In particular, we are talking about the financing of tools, which this area also needs. In particular, however, we need to see what we are going to do in the internal market. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. You have the floor again, Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u20	Minister, I am delighted to hear the initiatives taken by the Government and your Ministry on traceability and monitoring, as we say, of production to the final consumer, so that we can see quality, quantity and time from where each product comes from in the product distribution chain. Because the industries, both Greek and foreign, have every reason to find the window in the law so that, if there is no punishment, if there is no control, they do not write down whether the milk in a yoghurt comes from a Greek producer or Dutch producer or Bulgarian. This should be resolved. I have nothing to judge and do more than what you said. It was an excellent answer. We will monitor, because this is where we are also in control of the government, that we must do it. Because Greece is all of us and we come from rural families. I've heard these problems a week ago when I went to my mother's village of forgiveness. I have been told a lot of issues, which is why this has been the case. I would like to say, however, in general terms, that at some point this country must keep a production in its basic materials such as sugar - we had a matter the other day with EBZ - meat, milk and yoghurt. They're the best products in the world. The Turks are trying to copy our yogurt. There's international arbitration. We cannot lose the right to the patent and the quality of yogurt in Greece for any reason. It is strategically important for the sustainability of not only farmers, industries and jobs, but also of Greece itself. Because the brand "Greece" goes with the tourism, goes with the yoghurt, goes with the oil, goes with the wine. So these need to be protected. We cannot currently import EUR 6.7 billion of agricultural products. I'm not saying we're going to solve this, for example, I'm saying it. The studies I have - and I know them very well - are that if we did not have EUR 6.7 billion to waste on imports of agricultural products, we would have four hundred thousand jobs. I know exactly how it is. They've been half the unemployed of those who've lost from the memorials for the past five years, and they've been plus eight hundred thousand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The strategy must be specific and we must also see how the dairy industries are paid, because it is the one that is drying up the producer's working capital, so that it can get the materials back on track. He should have money, not just from the subsidy, but also from the one who buys his product. He'll buy it at a better price probably, but pay him in a short time. We can impose this, we can make it, even within the capital controls, so that the purchase and sale process is cleared. In other words, the producer should not dry the market from money and working capital. To be able to take away his materials, pay his workers, to stand up again. Because, if he doesn't, we won't have any future. So its financial costs, namely the payment of the industry to the producer, are very important. Along with the banks and the former agricultural or any bank now involved in contractual agriculture, we must do so. I conclude by saying that I welcome - and I learned the day before yesterday, they will come to your office, I will bring them to the Bureau - the union which has been done and has found the excellent title and is called 'Greek'. I was informed last night. Our "Greek" is an association of Greek producers where, as the word says, all products produced - and are members of the association - are from alpha to omega all Greek. I will personally protect and support this effort. We'll come to the Ministry to see it, and I'd like your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. Dear colleague, we need the support - which we have - but in particular the debate, to see how we deal with the problems, because they are a lot. I tell you attributes that the European Union gives the possibility of optional indication of the country of origin of the raw material and, in particular, of dairy. We, of course, insist on compulsory registration and call on the Greek industries in particular to sign up, because the Greek consumer must be informed and decide whether he wants to pay four, five, ten minutes more for the fresh milk, the Greek which has all these conditions that we all support and is a reality. To this move we invite them from this Step. From that point of view, we shall intervene in this particular party. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, that milk is consumed five, six, seven days until now, to be paid with seven and ten months' cheques. In other words, the cow farmer, the farmer, is basically the main funder of the multi-shop liquidity, because that is what this is all about. So it is a very serious issue that we are certainly planning to see, as we are planning other things, particularly with the Rural Development Programme, so that there is a possibility in this area too. Because we said that when we talk about agri-foodstuffs, in particular animal production, dairy products and animal products, it is a matter of Greek products because they are the most important ones in the commercial balance of agricultural products. And to see how fundamental it is, even the introduction of soybeans, which we give about EUR 500 million every year, is about animal production. It is a very complex part, which we absolutely must support. So we, and through the Rural Development Programme and through the promotion programme, will try as much as possible to support it. I will return to this difficult situation which has arisen, not only because of the crisis and the abolition of quotas, but also from what we are discussing amending the Food Code. We will try to call on the Greek consumers to look after and seek the consumption of local products and, of course, to get to this point so that the Greek industries understand it - that we must support this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u25	You're welcome, Mr. Barriotta. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u26	It concerns one of the unsuccessful questions. I would like to make one minute's speech, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u27	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. I apologise to colleagues. Today it was a very important question - in my view - to ask Mr Polakis a timely question. It concerns problems associated with treatment of cancer and especially radiation treatments. It is a particularly acute issue and it combines with the visible risk of losing the very large donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to hospitals, which is the only source of the renewal of the radiation treatment equipment. Unfortunately - and this is not the first time - Mr Paulakis has been systematically absent from the parliamentary procedure since November. He has not come to answer a timely question from my party, but not just from him. I would point out that yesterday there was a relevant communication from PASOK, which highlights the same problem. I think, however much I respect the workload of the ministries and the obligations, the statistics alone say that here we have a classic case of contempt for Parliament and for fugitives. Mr. Paulakis never comes and does so deliberately. That's the one and I want to point it out. The second point, Mr President, concerns the Bureau. I would like to protest that there has been a letter to the President of Parliament for a long time, which highlights the problem of dysfunction. I would like to point out that 60% of the questions in the bottle were postponed today. As far as we are concerned, the twenty-four questions have been postponed and fourteen questions are being debated. That's what he says. Unfortunately, the Bureau has not taken any action. I have not received any reply for a long time and as far as I know, the very serious problem has not even been discussed in the Conference of Presidents. I said before that, however much I am prepared to understand the workload of the Ministries, that the duty of the Bureau of Parliament and of the Government is to find a solution so that this essential - in my view - dialogue can go ahead. I know that in the previous session the Minister was able to determine the day and time at which he may be present. There's no problem. It could be done that way. The political leader, the Minister, could answer for his Deputy and vice versa. And that's what used to happen. What I do not think is challenging - and we will come back as a party and this - is to despise the process of parliamentary dialogue in this way and to provoke the ministers in the way I have said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. Mr. Barriott, you're not the only one who complains. Many Members are protesting. The Bureau has taken all the necessary steps. What remains to be decided by the Conference of Presidents is for the ministers to be appointed one day so that they will be the ones to come...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u30	The debate has to be held.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u31	This will be discussed at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u33	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I think it is now necessary - perhaps the Rules of Procedure do not provide for this - but I would say in a consultation that I would say the government and the Bureau of Parliament - somewhere, a week or so, one in fifteen - depending on the needs that exist - to be stable so that we too can schedule from the government, the Ministers, our work to meet. Because the Greek Member is indeed in great need of information, because he is the one who brings society's opinion and reflection to the House, and there must be an answer there. Make such an effort on your part so that we can actually satisfy what is needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, just one word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u36	Mr Minister, as I have said before, efforts have been made. That's enough. And the President, Mr Voutsis, has made a great effort, but a decision of the Conference of Presidents on what you are saying is imminent. In other words, the Minister can state on the day that everyone can know or what you say, which is about the same day. It's not different from one another.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u37	I have to point out something, if you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u38	This is over, Mr Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u39	Just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u40	Please, but let's get this over with and move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u41	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. I think the total time is minimal. It's two hours at the most, along with the gutter in the canister. It is not more than two hours of attendance in the House for each Minister. I respect the problem of time, but I don't think two hours a week is the important thing. Besides, there are ministers who come and there are ministers who don't step on or come only for coffee. There is a specific issue concerning the functioning of Parliament, but I am very afraid of everyone's intervention and personal policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th Amarousio School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u44	Please, Mr. Nicholas, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u45	Let's move on, but the exception can't be made for us to be just spectators and listeners. A proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u46	Let me interrupt. There's no exception. Mr. Barriots asked for the floor because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u47	So I do. A proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u48	You have no question that has not been answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u49	Look, you and all my fellow Members and those of us who have twenty-seven years here know that this phenomenon was not observed in previous parliamentary periods. I therefore believe that the Bureau, the President in particular, has an obligation to remind the ministers that it is their basic duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Nicolopoulou, this has been done on several occasions, to know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u51	Then they don't listen to anyone. They should go to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u52	In any case, we shall raise this matter again at the Conference of Presidents on the basis of what we have just said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u53	You know very well what other Presidents of this House have done. How harsh they were.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u54	Next is the seventh under number 709/28-3-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the New Republic of Greece, Eleftherios Ausgenakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the impact on domestic olive oil production due to the introduction of duty-free olive oil from Tunisia. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would just like to make one comment on what was said before. Mr Apostle, it is not if you are willing, you and all the ministers are obliged to respond, to participate and to respond to parliamentary scrutiny, and I close with it. Today we are discussing a very important issue and it is about importing olive oil from Tunisia. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, your disastrous policy as a whole - and your own, Mr Minister - also continues in the olive growers' sector. The introduction to the European Union of duty-free oil from Tunisia, and even thirty-five thousand tonnes this year and so many more per year, we all understand, to the Greek oil producers. The Plenary Session in Brussels at its meetings on 24 and 25-02-2016 approved European aid for Tunisia by introducing duty-free olive oil. The scandalous decision to introduce duty-free Tunisian oil has also been added to the many problems. As early as November 2015 with parliamentary intervention, I have pointed out the great problem that is created and called on you from this step, Minister, at the next Agriculture Council to revise your attitude and block this decision. Do you remember what your decision was? Let me remind you. You reacted strongly in the debate in plenary on November 30, 2015, disgusting the introduction of Tunisian olive oil without duties and calling us no more or less liars. Once again you said, Mr Apostle, lies to the farmers and farmers of our country. In fact, you made a very strong commitment that you would not allow this to happen by calling the decision provisionally and placing the responsibility on the previous Minister of State. I have the minutes of the sitting then, your reply. If you don't remember them, I'd be happy to remind you of them. They are written and fortunately they are written and they are yours. Unfortunately, the facts themselves are confirmed once again. This decision accentuates the Greek olive producers, since it puts the prices of olive oil into the nadir. You should have protected the interests of the Greek producers, but you did not. Unfortunately, the Tsipras Government with its choices and policies destroys every creative and productive sector in the economy. Instead of supporting and strengthening the production of Greek products, it leads the producers to the destruction. Instead of supporting the excellent quality Greek products that have endured the crisis and enjoy international recognition, they lead to destruction and obscurity. Minister, I ask you: do you realize the adverse effects on domestic olive oil production? Why in the Agriculture Council on 16 November 2015 did you not disagree, but did you also agree and did not veto - you were entitled - to the debate on the import of thirty-five thousand tonnes of olive oil this year and so many more time from Tunisia? Do you know that we are losing the battle of olive oil in the United States of America and not just because of the high price resulting from the high cost of production? What are you doing as a government? What are you doing as Minister? What actions do you take or have you take to support Greek olive oil and Greek producers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u57	I really cannot understand you coming back to an issue I have answered, let me tell you, just to yell.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u58	Are you serious about that now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u59	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u60	But you said, but you do. Are you kidding me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u61	Did I interrupt you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u62	But you said, but you do, Minister. Please, get serious, finally. We're not all the same in here. Refer to the Minutes of the House. I told you on November 30th. What were you talking about then? What were you responding to parliamentary control? But can you tell me such things? Who do you think we are, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u63	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, no matter how much he insists, I am not going to get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u65	We're not laughing around here. Parliamentary control. Be serious and consistent, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u66	Please, Mr. Ausgeakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, if it does not withdraw the word'serious', I will not answer it because I have to return it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u68	Be serious, Minister. But we were talking about it then and other things you say today, but you've signed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Ignace, please. First of all, you have a dentistry. Second, it's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u70	You're disturbed when they tell you the truth. You won't be fond of us. The lies are over. You'll learn to hear the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u71	Please! You have a dentistry. Lifting the tons...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u72	I do not understand, Mr President! When it raises what had happened in here, it announces the Minutes of the House. It's your answer. It's yours. Are you going to take me out crazy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u73	This is not the way to have a serious debate. You understand that, and I think you welcome it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, we all need seriousness, which, unfortunately, is scarcely the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u75	We need to take a little tons to get a serious debate, otherwise we will make a fight and it is not right in this House to fight all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I will continue my position if Mr Aeggeakis withdraws his phrase that I am not serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u77	That bothered you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u78	As you can see, there is no way for me to go on answering. I have no reason to submit a reply in the Minutes and all the documents. However, I demand what I have said, because at least as far as my presence in the House is concerned, I do not think I have given rights to express such opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Ausgarian, if you want the debate to continue, I think that these descriptions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u80	Only if the Minister reads and reminds himself of what he says, then I will also recall.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u81	You understand that. It is not possible to have a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you were saying then. You were lying one more time. Understood? But you've answered me from this one. So how do you tell me today to withdraw the word'serious'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Ignace, go on. It's not right! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I shall simply reply to the question by tabling everything that I can say in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u86	Well, I've got my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u87	I would once again ask you to be limited to arguments, because otherwise we are not helping the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u88	I understand Mr Apostle's embarrassment, but we are not here to laugh at ministers, as SYRIZA Members do. We are here to exercise parliamentary control. I, too, call for nothing more than the Minutes of the House of 30 November, where, in reply to my own topical question, the Minister answered what I read. If, Minister, today you do not remember what you said, I would refer you to the Minutes of the House. Please very little seriousness, a little responsibility and, above all, honesty. No more lies to both farmers and farmers and Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Ignace, please. You have a dentistry. Please confine yourself to dentistry and not to characterizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u90	What designations, Mr. President? I invoked the Minutes of the House. Are we kidding now? Excuse me, what are the Minutes for? To be able to overthrow at all times and at all times. He was the same Minister then. There was no one else who answered. He's not a serviceman. It is a matter of seriousness when he does not remember what he has answered and tells me that these are not serious things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u91	I'm talking about personal designations...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u92	What characterization? That he's not serious? When he has answered others, did he do other things, voted for others and comes today and tells me other things? Excuse me very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u93	Continue with your dentext, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u94	I will go to another point, since the Minister has not answered anything, but he has fled behind my insults, and the point is that he has lied so much to farmers and farmers. He's lied so much! Others wrote in press releases in June, but he said days ago at the beginning of farmers’ movement, but he was telling the House. Really, what credibility are we talking about today? There is no credibility, there is no seriousness from any member of this government. I'm going to another topic, after you've answered it, Minister, don't answer it. As we know, the Ministerial Decision - or you have already adopted it at the suggestion of the OECD - which is a bomb to buy milk. More specifically, with this decision, you disconnect, Mr Apostolou, raw milk from yoghurt manufacture in the name of the OECD toolbox adaptation. Leave windows even for the use of milk powder and widen the doors for airy imports of cheap milk products. Minister, do you know what you're doing? What kind of submission is this in the OECD, you, a revolutionary left man who would take it all down? Do you know what kind of interests these arrangements serve? This is Tsipras - Kammenos - Apostle and not the OECD toolbox. The change in the institutional framework for the removal of the term ‘fresh milk’ for the preparation of the Greek yoghurt, which was reflected in a draft joint ministerial decision, constitutes a huge overthrow on the domestic market. If the information is published, it opens the door to imports, not only, Mr Apostleou, for cheap, raw milk, but also for cheap raw materials for the manufacture of dairy products. One more thing. At the same time, the Czech Republic - and I hope you will answer something and what you say will remain in the Minutes to invoke it after a few weeks - claims the use of the term "Greek yogurt" in its dairy products. A draft Czech decree has been submitted for consultation with the institutions of the European Union. It lays down the requirements for milk and claims to manufacture products, please use the term "Greek yoghurt". Have you gotten it over there at the Ministry of Rural Development? I ask you directly, Mr Apostle, and do not laugh and look from the other side. Is this all true? What kind of interests do you serve? What do you have in mind? Do you have one? Has the draft Ministerial Decision been submitted to the Commission for approval? Why are you doing this? Are you - your words - on the same side of the table as farmers, as you said in your interview and in your statements? What if, in other words, you were across the street what would you do? Tell us what's worse you could do? Now stop the degradation of the Greek livestock production base and for the good of Greek production, for the good of Greek livestock farmers now leave! You're the most incompetent, you're the most ineffective, you're the most corrupt Greek government. Get out of here now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u95	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u96	Mr. President, I will keep my cool. I just want to say that we had a debate on the issue of our obligation to the OECD tool. It's a 2013 Memorandum commitment, coming from old times. You realise that, within the framework of the new agreement, there is this regulation which creates a problem, and I have said so before. However, the view that milk powder is being used is unacceptable to express itself. There isn't that, it's clear. The Czech Republic also wants, but the Greek delegation has already answered and put its reaction to such a point that it cannot be accepted. From there on, I really want to say the words 'interested' have been said. When this uproar took place for Tunisian oil, I took care of my side to see what the situation was. I shall therefore submit the letter from our ambassador, the consular authorities, to Tunisia. Do you know what the import of Tunisian oil is - why the agreement is coming from an old time ago and is simply increasing now by thirty-five thousand - in our country? It's zero! No liters of oil. And I challenge them to bring me an invoice to Greece showing that Tunisian oil entered. None! Secondly, because we are talking about a period when prices are supposed to fall due to noise, prices have increased in this year and I will be tabling relevant documents. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, know how many oil exports were in 2015? It was 631 million euros, a hundred seventy - three million pounds. Do you know how much it was last year, in 2014? It was 260 million euros, seventy-four million litres. Do you know what the price was? It was EUR 3,51 in 2014 and EUR 3,64 in 2015. These efforts are being made and they are returning. That's why you see me feel like I'm drowning right. What council on November 15th? I've explained it a hundred times. This Council of Ministers had no question of olive oil from Tunisia. It simply had a general debate on the trade relations of the countries of the European Union with third countries. There too, I put it myself that it is unacceptable from where it is being attempted to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u97	Why didn't you veto?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u98	What veto should I put? What decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u99	Who are you working for? It was a unanimous decision!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u100	There's no decision!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u101	It was a unanimous decision! You voted for that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u102	There's no decision. It's debated. As far as the European Parliament is concerned, it has indeed met and accepted. I want to be clear, because I had sent a letter to the Greek MEPs where I mentioned the position taken by our country. Do you know what happened to the vote? Only three MEPs voted 'yes'. The rest either abstained or voted 'in favour'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u103	What vote do you say, Mr. Apostle?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u104	And you know in these three, one was New Democracy, and the other two weren't SYRIZA's.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u105	Don't lie, Mr. Apostle. Set out this decision on Tunisian olive oil in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u106	I'll testify to you. So the vote in the European Parliament refers to 24 and 25, and it did not take place on 24 and 25, but on 12 and 13. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u107	Don't lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u108	Please, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u109	But he's lying. Another decision is invoked by the Minister. Put the decision in the Minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Ignace, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I would ask that this decision be tabled in the Minutes. He can't invoke documents without filing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u112	I shall put these before you, Mr President. And I really want it because it is a very serious issue, to be informed. When the European Commission, Mr President, decides on relations with third countries, there is a lot of talk on many Councils. So, in the debate on this matter, six - seven countries were opposed, namely Greece, Italy, Spain, Cyprus, Portugal and the olive oil countries. The day before yesterday, the Council on external relations, all these countries, because a majority had already been created which actually enabled Tunisia to export these quantities, had not reacted. And we have tabled a special letter - we have not yet gone to the Agriculture Council - and this letter is now coming and Italy adopts it, we expect Spain, Portugal, to adopt it, to see how we will put pressure on at least to keep a few things. Because you, ladies and gentlemen, may think of an approach to a product at that time, but I am thinking that the next hour I will meet Commissioner Hogan and raise the issue of feta with South Africa, he will put one on me, he will put the other on me. So you realise that when we say "foreign policy" especially in such matters, it wants seriousness, it does not want to shoot in the air without a single litre. Do you understand? Without a liter, we raise the world. Are you all right? Are you creating a subject where there's not even one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute on a request.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u115	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u116	I call on the Minister to submit in the Minutes the decision on the possibility of introducing Tunisian olive oils into the European Union. That's the first. Secondly, I would like to ask the officials, on the one hand, to present the minutes to the Minister on the other hand, on his reply of 30 November, because on the other hand, Mr Minister, on the other hand, you referred to it. So please, too, a little serious and especially a little responsibility on your part is no harm. 'Cause you're saying more. Don't take us crazy in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u117	We move to the eighth under number 689/21-3-2016 topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Serres of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR. Michael Jeleighis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the recovery of agricultural aid. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, at the beginning of the year, and when the draft law on grazing land was being discussed in this Chamber, the Minister of Agriculture brought an amendment to his own bill of late payment for aid that has been declared incompatible by the European Union, although in our questions then, if the Ministry intended to bring this about and adopt a law, he said no to the committees. When we reacted to this late amendment, the Minister in this Chamber specifically said the following and I read from the Minutes of the House: 'I repeat what I have said again. There is no way that this process of redeployment by farmers, through recovery, will be as long as I am at the Ministry of Rural Development. There is only one case, to pass through the House." And it goes on to say: 'Be quiet that at least during the SYRIZA term in the government there will be no recovery from farmers'. We are very surprised to hear the Minister say that he intends to bring a joint ministerial decision - and he announced this on 19-3-2016, in a debate on topical and urgent questions here - about recovering the 425 million people, who, after interviewing him, said he would be reduced to 200 million, not to seven hundred thousand, but to ninety-five thousand and twelve thousand farmers later. I would like to ask the Minister: what has happened and in such a short time there is such a distortion of declarations and from 'I will not implement any recoveries' we now go through a ministerial decision how to collect them? As promised to Parliament, will he come before signing this ministerial decision to discuss this matter in the House? In conclusion, I would like to remind you that yes, the Hatzigakis package is about the period 2008-2009. Payments to Greek farmers, who did have a significant damage to crops, were quickly made without complying with the European Union rules due to the forthcoming 2009 elections. Payments were made between May 2009 and October 2009 and there was no documentation. I would, however, like the Minister to answer this change in terms of recovery.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u119	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, I certainly said the specific phrase for the simple reason that two days ago there had been a specific decision of the European Court of Justice, which exhausted all the possibilities for judicial treatment in the Hatzigakis package, what in 2008-2009 gave seven hundred and twenty-five thousand farmers EUR 421 million, ignoring the contractual obligation to inform the European Commission. I have said this again, if he had then made this move and documented the necessity of aid - and I am one of those who say that there was a need for aid - if this effort had been made, even a simple mention of the fact that we have this problem and we must give these aid, we would not have come to the current situation. But you see, the elections came and things were rough. We therefore say that if he had made this move, we would not have come to the present situation. But since we knew, we were expecting - because this is how the European Courts operate - that is how the institutions operate - that this decision will come, because we have had too many debates in the interim, we have also been prepared with the relevant negotiations constantly trying to do so. That's the negotiations. I may say 'no' today, but if you get a few things on the path, it can change. That is the concept of negotiation. So we say that we want to use some tools to reduce them. What are the tools? It's de minimis, to see a record, who are the ones who got the least. So somewhere in this process we have come to agree with the European Commission, from the seven hundred and twenty-five thousand to pay only ninety-five thousand, and they are the ones who have taken over 1,000 euros. In other words, we of the seven hundred and twenty-five thousand farmers reach the six hundred thousand farmers, that is, 87% of the farmers pay. But even for these ninety-five thousand, if there is agreement or spirit in the recovery procedure - because we believe there will be such a thing - then these ninety-five thousand may also be reduced. And because I said that I wouldn't actually make recoveries, you know these recoveries, which we are discussing, are twelve thousand farmers, representing 1.55% of the farmers. If you want to talk about them, 65% of the farmers. For me, the rural area is represented by the remaining 98.5% of the farmers! So for them, I said, and I will support them! Do you understand that? If you can't understand it, tell the farmers! From there on, we are talking about twelve thousand farmers. They'll be summoned through a FDA to return. We are now in the relevant negotiation because we have voted for this amendment to the specific law on how these procedures will be done so that they are not painful for Greek farmers and for everyone. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more. As to the issue of recovery, do not whip me to tell you what is coming. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you say and insist that only 12 000 farmers, 1.67% will pay, namely those who took over 1,000 euros. How will we believe you, when you come in January and say that you will not make recoverys and come in March and that you will recover and that when the State General Accountancy report on the late amendment of recoveries says that this provision will be made in accordance with the expedited Ministry's comprehensive increase in State Budget revenues of EUR 320 million? And you come today and say you won't make any recovery. We want that, not to be recovered in a difficult period of time for the agricultural sector, for the Greek farmers, when the agricultural sector is now falling apart from the increase in tax burdens, insurance charges, VAT, disinvestment, underfinancing and all that we have to face today. You spoke just now about the toolbox, what you said "on order" and today is your gospel after the hugging of Guria with Mr. Tsipras. How can we believe you today when you claim to be your success, that is, from the seven hundred twenty - five thousand to be counting today only 12 thousand? No, you haven't done any energy! Because these measures for the use of de minimis de minimis aid, as well as for the exclusion of less than EUR 100, are measures taken by previous ministers. And we really would like to stand up to an effort, which must be done now, even in the 'and five', on the part of the Ministry of Justice to the European Union, because I fear that you are trying to cover behind the decision of the General Court of the European Union, where this decision does not have a time limit for implementation. And yes, of course, if you leave these without doing anything, it might come to take the chestnuts out of the fire of another government. But today, action needs to be taken and it must be stressed in the European Union that 13.8% of our country's working population, which is the farmers, has a fall in the income of a total of 27% against an increase in the European Union by 17.5%, when taxes have so far been increased and those that come tomorrow make Greek agriculture uncompetitive, when we have the embargo with the responsibility of the European Union against Russia which creates a problem in the agricultural sector. All this must be reintroduced and there must be an agreement with the European Union to stop these requirements for recovery from Greek farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u123	Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u124	Mr Colleague, according to EUROSTAT figures, agricultural income in 2015 increased by 12%. EUROSTAT says so, I'm not saying it. They've been filed in the Minutes of the House. Secondly, as far as the decision is concerned, it does not have a time limit. I am simply going to submit this letter from the European Commission, which says: 'If you do not immediately recover the money, then we will bring the matter before a court'. According to Article 108(2), do you know what that brings? Every day's fine. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If you want this, we should go into daily fines, so that I do not recover the sums - I am making an effort - of twelve thousand farmers who have received more than 5,000 euros at the time, say so. Let's tell the whole of Greek society. For these things now, especially in relation to the recoverys, we will have them before us. Mr. Cheleigh, do you know what we have in front of us now? Of the cooperatives we have to recover about EUR 600 million. And for these aids, there is a name, there is a government that has given them. So what are we doing here? You see we're trying to negotiate, to do procedures. I cannot understand the absolute position you have when a negotiation takes place. For God's sake! And you know, can I tell you something? Me the other day, another fine came to me. When I said "all right, we're done for the pastures", I got another 2013 fine, which is 167 million euros and he's coming another one for 2014. Here, too, we are in a negotiation process, as much as possible, to alleviate the situation. What can we tell them about the recoverys? Toss everything in the air or to enter a conciliation procedure so that we can reduce the specific amounts as far as possible? I really don't want to provoke, but that's the reality. In 2015 was the first year, finally, that we had no fines for pastures. Shouldn't you accept that? So, some work was done there so there wouldn't be any of these fines. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Please, the rural area needs - but not the krone - to really deal with the problems. You said now about the OECD toolbox. As of 2013, it was applied as a Memorandum Obligation. I am not one of those who I am telling you now that the people's mandate on 20 September was given to SYRIZA and the ANELs, of course, on the basis of the agreement we signed - and we had all signed it. Why are you forgetting this and you are not helping to make an effort, especially in an area that you support? I have already heard my colleague, Ausgarian. But he can say, why didn't I veto on a subject that didn't even come for discussion?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u125	...that's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u126	Please. This opposition doesn't make you anywhere. You're forcing us to take your laundry out in the forum. I won't get them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u127	What laundry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u128	And because, especially for recoveries and fines, the necessary moves have not been made at the time and later, we'll see them along the way. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u129	Thank you. We will now discuss the ninth under number 639/10.3.2016 topical question of the second question by the Deputy of Serres of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jelloris to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the Greek Sugar Industry. The questions are twofold because, you know, they are postponed by the previous automatically because of the absence of the Ministers. That is why Members have two questions, which, as you know, is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr Jelloney, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Just following the previous question, Minister, first of all, the imprisonment and penalties are retrospective. Don't be in a hurry. We'll see your own function, too. We want to show a good spirit of cooperation and help with the Ministry's efforts. The Ministry does not seek this when the specific question about the future of the multipathy and historical industry, the Greek Sugar Industry, for one month and four postponements cannot be discussed in the House, because you do not come here to see what future of the industry, when we have the shipowners in 2015, who are unpaid for amounts close to 8.5m euros, when we have statements from the relevant ministers, from Ms. Jack, in December 2015 that until 31 December 2015, producers will be repaid and no one will be unpaid, when we have statements by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Statakis, that the industry will be financed and that there is a resolution plan, that there is a plan for the viability of the company and that can be sowing sugar beet. The Greek customs producers heard them and cultivated about forty-five thousand acres for 2016. There are no guarantees for them as to what will happen. We don't know what the restructuring plan for the industry is. We do not know yet what we are hearing, whether or not there is funding. We see within two weeks the administrative boards resign. In the middle of the last month, the CEO resigned and a new management board was appointed two weeks ago. Three days ago, this board of directors resigned. There's no board right now. In fact, while it is an industry which has comparative advantages in the Balkans, where there is no sugar mill, apart from a small private one, we see today that Greek sugar beet and Greek industry are not part of anything from the Ministry of Rural Development in relation to the country's productive reconstruction. Although this industry, at the beginning of 2015 - and well - was strengthened with thirty million, we saw that for a year there has been no care, so that this industry will continue to operate and be sustainable and that an important agricultural product, such as Greek sugar beet, should not be lost. In fact, this is done at a critical time when sugar is released into the European Union from 2017. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We're talking about a polypathic industry over time. However, there was the possibility that the thirty million Greek people, which were given by an act of legislation at the beginning of 2015, could best be exploited to plan for its reassurance. On the contrary, we saw factories operating in 2015, operating for eighteen days, but hiring over 50 employees for six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u131	Please complete. The rest of you will be in your dentistry, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u132	What's that cost? How could industry be competitive and offer the Greek farmer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u133	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, my dear colleague, I spoke earlier about my presentations and about whether I can or cannot respond. We've made a great effort. Do not forget that we have a ministry that has special needs for contacts and meetings. You realise that is causing us a great deal of trouble. We don't know where to respond first. But the Minister responsible has answered about sugar. The day before yesterday there was such a timely question. I don't know if it was from you. The Minister responsible has answered. For my part, I wanted to answer today...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u135	Is the Minister responsible from the choice?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u136	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u137	I wanted to answer, because my agony is mainly how to keep the woodfruits. That's it. As you referred to last year's funding, I would like to remind you that we inherited a situation in the Greek Sugar Industry, which basically had these plants closed down. So we had to work them out. We have made a move, we have fought to rebuild the operation of this company, because we also wanted to ensure that the activity is continued, but also that we do not lose the logistics. You realize that was too serious. I would say again that the Greek sugar industry is a typical example of irrational functioning and of more general interventions by our country's political situation in this regard. Don't hide. So this is the situation we have found. Do you know who screwed her up a lot longer? The transfer of the Agricultural Bank to Piraeus Bank was indeed accompanied by a Gordian link, which is unprecedented in the business world. The liquidator of ATE in this case is different from the only creditor, which is Piraeus Bank, and is a Gordian bond, which is very difficult to solve, let alone when the liquidation process has already gone to other hands. So last year, we did this to save, and we really managed to pay many accumulated debts, suppliers operating needs, which could not be dealt with otherwise, because the company would close and we continued. At this time, an agreement is concluded between Piraeus Bank and the Greek Sugar Industry on a restructuring plan, which provides for an amount of EUR 12 million, disbursed in three instalments: five, three and four million euros. This plan makes the prospect and ensures the continuation of production sustainable. In order to achieve this, however, a second plan needs to be drawn up, a general plan for the viability of the undertaking itself. In other words, we definitely have to move forward - and we have to do so tomorrow morning - which will reduce its tariff. I just want to say to you that, when in the other countries of the European Union the average cost is EUR 392 per tonne and to us it exceeds EUR 750, you understand what a big problem we have. So we'll see after the signature. Let me, Mr President, say what I am going to say about payments and customs production.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty two students and students and three teachers from the 3rd Xanthi High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u139	Minister, I have said from the beginning of my position on a multi-faceted industry. Yes, there was irrational function, but in 2015 was a decisive year, which, by strengthening the EUR 30 000 000 from the Greek state and, while the industry should have entered a reorganisation programme for its viability, what did we see instead? Has irrationalism stopped in its operation? I pointed out earlier and asked you directly, why did you say that you were able to open a factory that was closed: How much was the damage from the operation of the Orestiad plant? Unless we say again that we are continuing the same way. Because I told you that for eighteen days of operation, when 10% of the processed sugar beet was processed, while the other factory of Serres Prefecture had the possibility of 30%, they were hired for six hundred and fifty employees. Did the industry stop trading with the sugar trading companies that owe several million? And there, yes, that's right. They went to the D.A. But I am also making a suggestion: insurance measures for the staff of the then management boards. So, what has happened in this direction in 2015? That is why the industry has arrived today before the deadlock and there is no future. For what you are saying at the moment, it will be financed with 12,000,000 euros, which will now get 5,000 euros, but 8,500,000 euros you owe the producers for 2015. How will you repay the producers then and how will they be paid, what are the guarantees for those who put sugar beet for 2016? At the same time, I would like you to tell me whether, in this plan, there is a proposal to divest the two factories in Serbia, because, if there is this proposal in the plan and you accept it, you put the paddock on the industry and you know it well. The comparative advantage of the industry is to keep these two industries, which are the only profitable and then, yes, to make a reconstruction, a modernisation, a reduction in the cost of operating the industry in the country. This industry needs to exist and it is necessary and, if you cannot give a solution, you will be responsible for the tombstone you put in the historical Greek sugar industry. This plan, which you have announced and accepted, in relation to its funding, is very well known for yourself. That is why there are no administrative boards to agree to sign it. I would also like to stress that, today and today, you have a board of directors, it wants at least two or three weeks to pass through the shareholders' assembly and then to be accepted by the bank. I see Greek customs producers doing, unfortunately, black Easter, which you will not be able to pay for the 2015 harvests. Think about what will happen with 2016, which are already ruining the logging, the forty-five thousand acres that have been sown. In fact, I have submitted two updates since the beginning of March. Today we have April. What have you been doing so long? You left the Greek Sugar Industry in "and five", so that it does not have a future in terms of Greek timber production and that you cannot now have time to negotiate, if you want to find other solutions, through strategic investors, to keep the industry. That is why both the farmers of northern Greece and the workers are upset, but also because of the verticalization of production and all the free professionals involved in the operation of the Greek Sugar Industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u141	I want to repeat once again that we made a decision last year to keep the Greek Sugar Industry alive. I think you also agreed on what you said. We had to take her. We kept her alive. Our big bet from now on is to see how through a...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u142	You didn't do anything in 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u143	Please. I finally respected you. Respect you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u144	I respect you, too. The question, however, is that you cannot say 'yes, we have agreed then'. The point is what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u145	What about you? Don't you respect your interlocutors? This thing is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Jelloney, please. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, I say that we now want to see the viability of this activity, through interventions, which involve costs and, more generally, the operation, even the prices to be sold by the customs producers. I told you earlier where we stand in terms of costs. Shouldn't we do that thing? So what are we talking about? I'm coming to the customs producers. As I was committed to the last meeting we had, on 5 April, I said that we would get the associated aid, increased by 40%. In other words, from EUR 37,5 per acre, they will receive EUR 53 and a total of EUR 2.32 million, which were registered yesterday - the day before yesterday in their accounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u148	For the complete?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u149	Well, for the complete one, then. Isn't that what you want? That is what farmers want to hear. For all the loose ends of the old years - those that I do not want to say now who, what you did not, did not - are about EUR 2.5 million. These are, of course, unfinished, which are the prerequisites for being met. These were all carried over as commitments to the Rural Development Programme and will be paid in three months, every month a sum. In three months' time, we will be in this process. This is all about integration, the old ones. With regard to the integrated rural development programme, the new one, this measure is replaced by another measure, which is the support for new participation in the quality system. This provides for EUR 1,319 per farm and, of course, raises it, on the basis of its average acres, about EUR 32 per acre. This is the whole thing and, of course, we are talking about space from now on for the next period. Also, if we add the previous ones, we are making the sum of EUR 85 and I mean from now on. To be heard by the tétullaires, that from now on they will have 85 euros per acre.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u150	You paid for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u151	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u152	It's a fact that we paid the associate yesterday. Now I tell you that we will pay, in the next two or three months, the completion of the old times. For the new growing season they cannot be paid now. In other words, we are telling you that integrated under the Rural Development Programme and the associated crop season exceeds EUR 85 per acre, and we will also aim to claim support for agri-environmental action in cases where there is either a loss of income or an increased cost. These are issues which are provided for by the relevant regulation and we will try to take advantage of it. Of course, it is due to EUR 8 million, as I told you, from previous production. The first instalment of the EUR 5 million loan, which we believe will be concluded soon, will be for the shipowners. Of course, because this is a very serious matter, we need to clarify one thing, ladies and gentlemen. If we do not reach a set-up of 100 thousand acres, it is very difficult to keep this one. That is our goal, and that is what you and we can also convince tectolicans to cultivate, so that we can have that critical size of production that makes activity sustainable. That's the point. We'll fight that way. Because you mentioned the European Commission's concern about the EUR 30 million, I tell you that for producers there is no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u153	I didn't mention that, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u154	But I ask you, why didn't you show such sensitivity to all of these charges, all of these subsidies, which we are now calling on you to pay as recoverys, and you go and paint an issue, which concerns an area that we have proven to be standing up to, and I say that it will not have any problem with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u155	We'll be here and we'll see. With the wishes, nothing happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much. We move to the tenth under number 718/29-3-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP, Achaias Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the implementation of the work of transporting water from Penios to Western Achaia. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. It's an unfortunate coincidence today, Minister, as journalists strike. By the way, we should send our regards and support to all the others who are working with them. I say it is a unfortunate coincidence, because I cannot imagine that you chose this day to come here, because today's debate had many interesting news through tortured parliamentary control. But, Minister, those who know - and there are many - anthropogeography know very well that you are one of the exceptions of today's government, which is extremely familiar with the subject. That is why you are now also accepting this severe criticism, because we are expecting a great deal from you. The other ministers may remind us - and I am very sorry for the expression - and a little so-called cafeteria. You're not in this charge. So this question comes after the debate on the Greek Zacharis industry, one of the flagrant factories that Constantine Karamanlis built. And it's time to talk about the irrigation of West Achaia, a project that also characterizes at that time, the golden eight years of Constantine Karamanlis. Since then, many people who have come, left and talked about this project have been followed in our 'heirs' democracy. Costas Karamanlis also talked about this project. George Papandreou spoke. Andreas Papandreou spoke, Giorgakis Papandreou, Constantine Mitsotakis. The one who will not be able to speak, from what I read today, about what is happening there in the multitude of the mutant in "Potami" of the New Democracy will be Kyriakos Mitsotakis. He will be the only one, the only "principal" of this "heir" democracy, who will not be able to talk about this project. Minister, in my dentistry, if necessary, I will argue about the necessity of the work, because I am sure you at least do not need arguments. You have also recently seen the Mayor of West Achaia. However, your announcements have not created pleasant impressions. And you know that we are also at a very critical moment, so that the seriousness can be taken as a joke or a joke, so that the commitment to such a serious work of today's Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, at Georgios Square, unfortunately, that old Greek film, Mr. President, in which Mavroyaluros all told you, "and water will bring you". In your reply, it is decided to show that we meant that this important - indeed - work, at last, can be said to be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u159	Mr Colleague, don't worry, the Prime Minister's promise will be implemented and implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u160	We'll get the water in the groove!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u161	That's right! Allow me, because it is also the subject of this project, to thank you for the good words about my face, but I will disagree with you on your judgments for my colleagues. As far as the subject of your timely question is concerned, which is essentially the extension of the use of the Penios dam to West Achaia, the study is being carried out by the Region of Western Greece. We're squeezing from our side. That is why the debate on this issue might have come out differently. It was not our intention to create a problem. Of course, you know that the relevant department of our Ministry has given us a positive opinion on this environmental impact study. I would like to say to you in particular that three projects in this part concerning Penios had been included in the wider area. The first project, which concerns the modernisation and upgrading of the operation of Ilias Prefecture for the savings of resources and energy, has unfortunately responded, due to zero absorption. The play wasn't ready. He joined, couldn't walk. As for the rest of the two, this replacement of the offshore pipelines has been completed, absorbing EUR 9.5 million - almost all of the budget - while the third of the sub-installation of TWG networks in the region has been transferred to the new Rural Development Programme to continue its disbursement, its absorption as - what we say - an unsuccessful obligation. In the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, a measure called ‘Enhancement Services’ has been adopted. This measure will bring together regional and national requests from all over the territory, of course, taking into account the demands of the new programme and the numerous requests for projects and studies that exist. We're working on it. A request for the construction - extension of the Peninsula Canal in Achaia has already come and is in our hands, namely, what you are asking for in your timely question. So it is our intention to support the project. There is also the commitment of the Prime Minister, which, as you can imagine, obliges us - it is a reason above - to implement it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like, although you consider it crucial, to say a few things about this Rural Development Programme and, above all, to mention what we aim to serve for this programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u162	You have the floor again, Mr Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u163	Minister, it would not be the opposition or journalists' fault if they say that the Prime Minister's explicit and unequivocal commitment today made it intent. You are an old parliamentarian and you know very well that from the good intentions, unfortunately, the works were not done, but they were made by people who "go over". In this case too, they must bear all their weight and interest, because that is, as you said, the case is that this study must be completed. It cost 800 thousand euros. We do not know - and if you know it, it will be useful to hear it - how much the cost - of expropriations for this project is. I fear that, while fifteen months are the new government in power, we forget it and you forget it more and you play with church times. There is eternity. It's not like that, and you know it very well. I fear that, until you come and assess, we may have another minister toward us. I would like, however, in your dentext, after reminding you - I consider it unnecessary, but also necessary - that West Achaia, which we are talking about, is that part with Elias, which, as you know, is still alive, offers much to the Gross National Product, has new people, if we want to keep these young people - and there are too many - and not only to return to them. You know that very well, Minister. And again, you won't have the alibi that you didn't know. If you look at the Ministerial Council, I said that not for another reason, but because it is a lot of talk. It must be the custom of the Left, of progress, to talk too much! But you know very well that you must now press, as you have said. You also told your meeting that you would ask for the updated study. If he came to you or if they told you when he was coming, it's good to tell us. You should also tell us if you have commissioned the expropriations study and, finally, please do not understand what you said, if the content was different, give an explicit commitment, because the list of priorities - I know that, of course - is endless, it is great and, therefore, if we wait again for the evaluation to be done, we are very afraid that we will not be so quiet after today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u164	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, I think I was clear in my position on the implementation of this project, but let us follow some procedures which have a fundamental objective: how implementation, how implementation of the Rural Development Programme, first and foremost, serves the objective of effectiveness and, secondly, the objective of absorption. That's the big bet that we...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u166	If the work doesn't serve him, say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u167	That's the big bet. I told you before: "See a project that had been integrated, it showed no absorption." He didn't have the prerequisites. So that is what we want to do throughout this process and, of course, this work has a more important condition, that it is the Prime Minister's commitment. I want to be honest. From this point of view, then, we say that we will also collect these from specific procedures, from visits, from invitations, from meetings in general, we will have the real picture. Let's not forget, Mr. Colleague, the programs and packages that have passed to build the bells to build the village squares. Of course, it was rightly necessary to intervene. But this has to be over. The money, therefore, of the Rural Development Programme goes to specific projects serving rural development.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u168	Does the work we're talking about have anything to do with that? Minister, you are wrong with the work we are discussing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u169	Please, Mr. Nicholas!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u170	No, I'm not wrong. So we are moving forward and you can be certain that it is one of the projects that the region needs and, of course, there will be a document on this subject, so that the implementation can be absolute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u171	Thank you. We continue with the first with number 2932/204/5-2-2016 question and request that Parliamentary Chios of New Democracy Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis be submitted to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the abolition of the compulsory cooperatives in Chios. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, on 5 February I tabled a written question and a request for documents concerning the Government's intentions to abolish the Union's forced production of Chios, after the deadline laid down by law has expired and I had not received a reply from the Ministry. In accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I have asked that this be discussed today as a topical question. There was a debate on the same subject several months ago, with a question from Mr Andreas Michaelides, by Mr SYRIZA. And then I had commented that your answer was general. You have now tabled the bill and tomorrow in committee we will try to understand exactly what you mean by Article 32. But I think today's debate will give us a first taste. I would like you, Minister, to clarify the government's intention. Do you want to or do you not want to abolish forced cooperatives? Do you want to or do you not want to abolish the compellingness of the Chios Fighters' Association? I won't repeat things you know. It was a very successful union course. It normally protected small producers. There are no large producers of mastic. 70% of producers produce under 100 kilograms, a small quantity, and this compelling allowed these producers to survive, allowed masts to become a product recognised, and that was very positive for the income of Chios producers. There is Law 2169/1993, which already provides for a presidential decree - not by a joint ministerial decision, as you suggest - to allow forced cooperatives, if they so request - and in Chios no one has raised a question of abolishing the compulsion of the cooperatives, of converting them into a normal cooperative. Here, with the bill you tabled, you also raise another issue. You consider that the necessity, as you say in Article 32, can be lifted, or in the event of a breach of the law of the European Union and national legislation. So I ask you, as I have asked in my written question: is there any correspondence with the European Union which calls for the co-operatives to be abolished? Is there a ruling from the Court of Justice of the European Union asking for this? It is also mentioned in the case of breaches of national law. That, Minister, is self-evident. A law judged to be unconstitutional is abolished. But there is the decision of the Council of State, 3580/2010, which considers that compelling is in line with the Greek Constitution. So, finally, what's the matter with you? What are you trying to change and why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u173	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u174	My dear colleague, we're both talking now. But there is also a third parameter, which is necessarily in this debate. I will not disagree with you on the offer of forcedness to Chios, which is indeed not only that it has given way to Chios' production, but has reached a point where there is more demand than supply in this particular product. In fact, it was described, as you mentioned in your question, cultural heritage, as protected by UNESCO. But you know that we have reacted to the compelling, which are not current, but have started from a long time ago and because we are in an hour when the operation of forced cooperatives in Greece has arrived in the European Commission and has dealt with the Human Rights Court in its decision - I am stopping here - you realize that there is a problem. That is why I am making one thing clear from the outset, which is referred to in it. If there are pressures from the European Commission and the institutions or judicial decisions, then by common ministerial decision - I stress it - a framework will be established for the operation of forced cooperatives other than that which exists today. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to abolish the compelling, we support it and we are trying to safeguard it at this particular moment. But it is an issue that remains open to situations that I mentioned before. At the same time, we must bear in mind the need to support local players and local communities. I don't want to tell you any more. I'll agree with you again. In fact, Mr Colleague, especially the need for Chios' mastic, I want to go further. I believe that he has done such a job and has had so much of an offer that, even if compelling is to be abolished, the same work will continue to be done by the cooperatives and this union in Chios. This thing doesn't mean we're against forcedness. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will say it all once and for all. That is why we are saying in this regulation that the forced partnerships and associations are being transformed by a decision of the Minister of Finance and Rural Development at the request of the same - you know, four are the forced cooperatives in Greece - or in the event of a breach of the law of the European Union and of Greek legislation, if there is an infringement of this legislation that you described today. In such cases, therefore, the conversion shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Article describing all procedures and completed within six months of the entry into force of the Decision. It is not our intention to deal with this matter with this law, only on one condition, the one I described to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Metarakis, here, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am glad you agree on the offer of the Chios Mastics Association, but the truth is that I am disappointed by your reply. I think you should withdraw Rule 32 - and I will tell you in committee or in the written debate - because according to what you said, you are completely covered by Rule 47(7) of Law 2169/1993 which provides for conversion. What do you add with this article? You come alone and say the same thing. You come and say: 'If there is a decision of the European Court of Justice, if there is a decision of the Council of State, I will have to change the law'. First of all, this is understood by the Constitution and by the Treaties of the European Union. But by you coming and putting it in the law, you're opening a ferry. You give food to those who react. You said a moment ago that there are reactions from the European Commission. Thousands of times there are reactions from the European Commission for thousands of issues. The role of the Greek Government, however, is to protect the Greek economy, the Greek producers. That's what we did, and that's what you have to do. When you come to the law itself and say, "If there is a reaction, I'll change it," it's like causing the reaction. This was the case with agricultural subsidies. We put it in the law, then forced us and we did it. If you do believe in compelling, you open a ferry door for no reason. If you don't believe in forcedness, say it. But, if you believe, don't open a ferry. Do not give the European Commission food. If there is a judgment of the European Court of Justice, it shall be implemented. If there is a decision of the Council of State, it shall be implemented. You come here and say the self-evident, that is, that the law will change, if it's illegal. Of course it will. The other one that is not specified is this being converted by an association to a primary level. Is it true, anyway, or is it only if the compulsion is lifted? This is not evident in Article 32(1) of the law. Furthermore, the decision of the European Court of Human Rights - which is not a European Union decision, and we should not confuse the Council of Europe with the European Union - discussed a very specific issue, that some wine producers in Samos have asked for a wine authorisation. The association did not sell raw materials to them. That doesn't apply to Chios. In Chios, anyone who wants to buy a product, raw material, from the union to produce his own product. There are dozens, hundreds of final product producers with mastic raw material. The association merely ensures a stable price to producers and a stable price to those who want to produce. Minister, this debate will now be held in committee. I review that you are giving food to those who are against the interests of associations, because you come and say the obvious, and there is legislation that covers what you say. I hope that you will finally withdraw Rule 32 in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u177	Minister, you have the floor again for a second reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u178	My dear colleague, I'll see you in committee anyway. On Friday he comes to the Committee on Production and Trade. What I want to say to you is that the aim of the regulation is to defend the rural area as far as possible, and above all, to avoid situations like those which we have been talking about at the last hour and which lead to the fact that the person who pays the bill will ultimately be the farmer, the Greek citizen. Make sure that's what we'll defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Minister. The second question will be discussed under number 728/1-4-2016 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Eleftherios Aygeakis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the stay of the European Network and Communication Safety Agency (ENISA) in Heraklion Crete. The Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Peglerini, will answer. Here, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor. I hope you're calmer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, Minister, ENISA, the European Network and Information Security Agency, is still in Heraklion. The ENISA shall complete 12 years of operation. It is not only an important instrument for Europe, but its existence, firstly, as a European centre of expertise on safety and cyberspace, but also, secondly, as an international public body has a symbolic value for Crete and our country. Most importantly, however, it is of essential value since its cooperation with the scientific bodies of Crete - University, TEI, FORTH, etc. - may make a decisive contribution to strengthening research, innovation and entrepreneurship. In my parliamentary speech on 3-2-2016, I said that, unfortunately, the organization seems to be moving from Heraklion to Athens. Already a part of his staff has already been transferred to Athens, indicating that direct flights from Heraklion to Brussels, which were included in the contract signed between the Greek Government and the ENISA, do not take place. “These days are the voluntary silent movement...” I said then, “... and the rest of the ENISA officials in Athens to move 90% of the employees until September 2016”. Thus, only six employees and the director will remain in Crete to formally justify maintaining the agency's seat. Unfortunately, Mr President-in-Office, the concerns I expressed at the time were confirmed in the worst way and in a very short time. Developments are rapid and with the inability of the government the question is now being raised of the possible launch of the transfer of ENISA outside Crete and possibly outside the country. The Executive Director of ENISA in his official letter to the European Union notes that, with regard to the offices in Athens, the agreement on a double seat of Heraklion - Athens poses a problem for the organisation. As far as the proposal to Heraklion is concerned, it says that accessibility is difficult, since direct flights are carried out by different capitals only in the summer. For the European School, it says that there is no critical mass of pupils in school and the evaluation report does not guarantee a European school certification for the future. On the contrary, in Athens there is a wide range of choices with foreign-language schools. For workers' wives, Heraklion as a city living from agriculture and tourism does not provide job opportunities making the home unattractive. I shall conclude, Mr President. On 16 March 2016, the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets at a critical meeting on the future of ENISA notes that the Government is not consistent - once again - with the payment of the salaries for its offices. In fact, at this meeting there was a twofold insulting remark for our country, for your Government, from the representatives of the European Commission and the European Court of Auditors on the inconsistency of the government in paying the office salary. However, there was no counterpart, no defenders of the Greek side, and no opinion was expressed in favour of the stay of ENISA in our country and, in particular, in Heraklion, Crete. It is worth mentioning that there was no government representative present at this meeting. If that's possible! The representative of the permanent Greek delegation also did not even take a position. Obviously, he had not received any relevant information as to what position he should take. So I ask you, Minister, what action you intend to take and what motives you will create in order to keep ENISA in Crete, Heraklion and return the staff who have already moved to Athens. What is the planning - if any - of the government to support international European organisations in our country and of course to strengthen their role? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, can we discuss the question together?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u182	It's about the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u183	Please, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u184	The question, Mr President, is addressed to the Minister for Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u185	You're wrong. It is addressed to the Minister for Education. Well, it's school inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u186	That's right. I will tell you that the two main issues concerning the European School of Heraklion have been addressed: the achievement of teachers and equal access to higher education for graduates of this school. These are already under way. The amendments in question have been made and the notice has been given. The other theme about the transfer of ENISA from Crete to Athens is an issue of the Ministry of Infrastructure. I can't answer that for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, this is an opportunity, since we also have the opportunity to have the State Secretary here, to respond. I'm making a suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u188	I just want to tell you that you are right about the fact that, if ENISA is actually transferred to Athens as a whole, it ceases to have the European School there. But I do not know these procedures and where they are, because it is not a matter of the Ministry of Education, it is a matter of the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, before I take the floor for a second reading, I propose this: since Mr Kegeroglu has tabled a question on the same subject and the Minister for Infrastructure is here, why not have one answer and then have the two Members answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u190	Look, if the Minister wants to respond, she will, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, this is what I propose, before taking the floor for the second time, since this is also a matter for the Ministry of Education, but above all for the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u192	But look, I'm sorry, Mrs. Undersecretary should be informed to answer, unless he wants to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u193	In any case, he has a question from Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u194	Let them be discussed together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u195	I think he will speak, Mr President. This isn't the first time this is happening. Since this is a similar issue, we have a colleague here from Heraklion asking the same question, they are two co-legislative ministries here on the same subject, let the colleague ask, let the State Secretary and the State Secretary reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u196	Good, Mrs. Chrysosvelloni, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u197	I shall reply to Mr Kegeroglou's question, and I shall reply on matters relating to the competence of our Ministry. I just want to clarify to Mr. Ausgeakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u198	All right, you'll answer Mr. Kegeroglu's question. I give you the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u199	I would, of course, also like there to be the intervention of the other colleague from Heraklion, because the issue is not a party, it is not a Member of Parliament, it is a whole society of Heraklion and Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u200	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u201	It is your responsibility, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u202	And it's up to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u203	It's not my responsibility to oblige...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u204	It's up to you, Mr. President. Since it is a similar matter, for the same matter, it is your responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u205	Since, the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u206	Nevertheless, I propose that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u207	Look, this procedure of three does not exist in the Rules of Procedure. However, if the State Secretary wishes to share her consent, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u208	Well, I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u209	The Rules are a question - an answer. You're welcome. You guys have a dentist now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u211	Here you go, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u212	I come here to answer Mr Kegeroglu's question. I would like to say on the subject of ENISA, which is really very important, that a question had been raised on Monday on the part of Mr Danel, which was withdrawn and was to be answered on 19 April. If Mr Augias wants to hear the answer, which I will give to Mr Kegeroglou only on matters relating to the responsibility of the Ministry, I would be happy to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u213	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u214	He will answer, as he said, Mr. Kegeroglu. You have the right to secondary. So I give you the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u215	Since Mrs Chrysovelloni is also here, I am addressing my questions to her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u216	I will not answer you, Mr. Ausgeakis. I'll answer Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u217	I know you won't answer me. In any case, the answer you give is not personal. It is about the whole society that is following this issue. We are not doing parliamentary control on personal matters here. I imagine that the rest of the Cretans and Heraklion Members are interested in this issue. Even Mr Synthrakis, a member of the JRC, but he has an interest and anguish, I imagine, as are the others who are not present in this Chamber. So the question to some extent to the Minister of Education and to another extent to the Minister of Infrastructure is whether the removal of ENISA has been initiated. Because the information that reaches us is that it has been launched. What are you going to do - both, in particular, the Ministry of Infrastructure - to reverse this decision, which has been taken, as it seems? As has been noted many times in my parliamentary intervention on 3 February 2016, the move of ENISA from Heraklion will have a significant negative impact on the scientific, economic, cultural and social level. The indifference of the government, as well as the clandestineness and naivety of dealing with all the issues, lead to an important organization for Heraklion, but it seems that it is also the whole of Greece. Because, as you know - at least from the information that comes to us, it is also known to you - there is now a matter for ENISA to stay in the country. We oppose the stance taken by Mr Kirtsos as a Member of the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets, who said: 'A single seat in Athens is one. The Greek Government intends to cooperate on this." That's what we're opposed to. We have burned this position from the very first moment. We went public against this position. We should also see the other: the operation of ENISA in Crete is inextricably linked to the functioning of the European School, Minister of Education. It is an important obligation for our country to have the parallel function of the European School. However, there are important problems with both staffing and moving teaching staff, creating serious issues for the good and effective functioning of the European School. An important practical problem therefore arises for the establishment of the staff of ENISA and its families in Crete, a problem which the defenders of the transfer of ENISA from Crete do. I have made repeated contributions to the European School. In fact, in my last speech, the Ministry of Education with the 15-3-2016 document assures me that in the context of his responsibilities he has made every effort to ensure the effective functioning of the school. In practice, it is now a matter of continuing its operation. In fact, the High Council of the European Schools meets tomorrow, on 8 April, and, among other things, it will decide on the future of the European School in Heraklion. Have action been taken - the question is addressed to you, Minister - to support the stay of the European School in Crete, in Heraklion? Or is that left to his luck? Unfortunately - and here we find the inability and inappropriateness of the government - the negative effects are now apparent at all levels. All you have to do is leave the government as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u218	Thank you. We're moving on now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, the Minister did not reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u220	What can I say? After I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u221	The fifth question will be discussed under number 737/4-2016, first question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the educational needs of the Municipality of Phaistos Heraklion Crete. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the municipality of Faistou has about twenty-five thousand inhabitants and the wider area of Messara has over fifty thousand inhabitants. The school population in this municipality of Faistos exceeds four thousand three hundred students. The problems are many, they are acute, they are time-consuming at both levels of education. This, of course, is the result of the years of state abandonment, the anointment of teachers, the dramatic underfunding of school committees, the lack of staff in municipalities, who are, of course, unable to respond to all these problems. In other words, this is a timeless crime of anti-educational and anti-linguistic policies of all governments and your own government, putting your costs and obligations on lenders above the needs of the people and the education of children. Logic, then, are teachers, parents and students to react strongly, because the needs are growing and this is the result of the growth of the disciple population. Unexistent school and safe school roof. Destroyed third-world building infrastructure. Lots of educational gaps. Multiple sections, of which twenty - five students are stacked. This is the picture that composes a school broken up and devalued. Of course, it is a huge challenge for the people's families, who lack the necessary social services and infrastructure, which of course prevents access to knowledge from the first steps of children, such as pre-school education, which makes it an empty letter for many parents, because there are no educational and infrastructures. The same happens with the exclusion of children from special education with the lack of schools, long distances, problematic transport, economic and family difficulties. I am presenting to the Minutes, in order to keep in mind the protests and requests, the proposals and decisions of the Association of Educational Primary Education "PHASITOS" by decision of 25-01-2016, the Phaestos Municipal Council by decision 02-02-2016, the Gypsy Parent Associations by decision of 23-11-2015, respectively the Borizia, the Local Council of Pigaidakis by decision of 14-01-2016, the inhabitants of the region and the three municipal units of Moiras, Tymbakio and Zaros. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For demands and needs educational needs, there are: Firstly, that no primary school, kindergarten or department should be abolished or merged. Secondly, on the basis of pedagogical benefits, rather than the logic of the figures, and the cost reduction and so-called rationalisation, there is no reduction in organic educational posts in schools in the region, even if at the school of a village there are ten or fifteen pupils. On the contrary, it is necessary to design and establish the organisationality of schools on the basis of the proportion of pupils to education: fifteen to one for the kindergarten and the first and second grades of primary school and twenty to one for the other classes. It is clear from this that the need to pay particular attention to the remodelling of the schools in Heraklion. Thirdly, the promotion of school units on a case-by-case basis, based on the demands of society and the real needs of schools and the increase of the school population. The structures of special education and training at primary level must be strengthened by promoting five-seven-seven-seven-seven Pompia special school and by creating secondary education structures. Uniquely existing secondary education structure for the whole Mesara region is the Tymbakis Special Training and Training Laboratory. Fifthly, the creation of places of integration in municipalities that do not have and generally create places of integration in all six-and-a-half municipal schools with the necessary staff. To set up kindergartens to meet the needs of all kindergartens and preschools in the region. To restart the kindergarten of Pigaidakis, as all conditions are met. In the next school year, some fifteen children will be registered, while there is a building, which of course has been abandoned under the responsibility of time-consuming education services in the region and the municipality. I'll say below in relation to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u223	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u224	I shall conclude, Mr President. The community of Pigaidakis is a mountainous area. It is the last village of the Municipality of Faistos, before the Libyan Sea, with bad roads and despite the anti-agricultural policy of all governments, young people insist and remain in their village. In other words, there is a dynamic. Also...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u225	Please, Mr. Synatiakis, you're finishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u226	Yes, Mr. President. The question is specific: what will you do, Minister? What measures will you take to meet the educational needs of the Municipality of Faistos with the establishment, promotion, reopening of the school units mentioned? [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Take the necessary measures to finance them in order to ensure operational, building, logistics infrastructure, all supervisory tools to meet all the needs of education, maintain the organic positions in schools in the area and redesign themselves to ensure the proportion of students to educational staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Sympathy, leave something for your dentistry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u228	Let me say one last thing, Mr President. There must be massive permanent appointments of teachers - that is to say - to cover all gaps and, of course, to permanentise all contractors, without any conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, I should just like to say that I endorse Mr Syntagakis' questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Augias endorses the questions raised by the honourable Member of the Communist Party, Mr. Synthraki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u231	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u232	And Mr. Kegeroglu. So, Mr. Peglerin, from what you understand, you're at the front. Make sure you please all three. Mr. Theodosis Peglerini has the floor for the State Secretary for Education, Research and Religious Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, it is at least unfair to mention the deterioration in the situation in the education sector in our country and to be indicted by the government for decades of age. I must tell you with all honesty that we have done our best this year, given the suffocating conditions. By legislative act, due to the urgency of the problem, we made use of the funds of the Public Investment Programme for the payment of substitutes for teachers, as well as special educational and assistant staff for special education schools. We recruited twenty - two thousand sixteen sixteen alternate teachers in primary and secondary education for eighteen thousand four hundred sixty - sixty - nine last year. Altogether in primary education, thirteen thousand seventy-sixty-six alternates have been hired this year, compared with twelve thousand sixty - one last year, a thousand seven hundred thirty - five more this year. In secondary education, the number of alternate recruitments reached six thousand three hundred this year compared with five thousand sixty - four last year, a thousand - six - six more. In technical training, the available persons returned and this year were placed in organic positions, the teachers of the school specialisations which had been abolished. Since September 2015, parts of these specialties have taken place in schools, so that the families of students and students interested in these specialties can attend in public schools. For the specialties of vocational schools, which had also been abolished, the operation of vocational schools began. Specifically for the Municipality of Phaistos the following applies: This is a municipality in the mainland of the island with several schools in remote villages. There is care from Heraklion Primary Education Department, so that schools in the region, primary schools and kindergartens are assigned with priority. There are only one class in the 2nd Municipal School, with fifty two students, twenty-six per department, which is within the limits laid down by law. Functional gaps in primary schools and kindergartens are: Two teachers in full-time primary schools, two specialist education teachers in part-time schools, five preschool teachers in full-time, five English-language teachers, one teacher. Organic gaps are due to a lack of appointments over the last six years and total eighty-two. As far as the running of kindergartens in Pigaidakis and Kamilari are concerned, so far the competent departments of the Ministry have no information for students. Now with regard to promotions, changes in school units: School changes, establishments, abstractions, merging, conversions, are made, as provided for in the relevant legislation, in line with the substantiated proposals of primary and secondary school directors and the recommendations of regional education directors. The opinions of the relevant municipal councils, which are not of a binding nature for the adoption of ministerial decisions, are also requested. The procedure for the school changes of the year 2016-2017 is in progress, as the relevant circular was already sent in December 2015 to the primary and secondary education directorates, regional directorates and municipalities. As far as I know, there is already a proposal to promote the seventeenth Primary School of Tymbakis in a nine-month period and to promote the eighth Municipal School of Kaprarians in a nine-month Municipal School of Kaprarians. Also, with regard to the building and logistics structure: The issues of the building infrastructure, as you know, come under the jurisdiction of the municipality and the Region of Crete. Correspondence in the archive of the Regional Education Department relates mainly to the building problem at the Primary School and Preschool of Voorizon. In particular, correspondence shows that the primary school there, after parental occupation, asked for an autopsy. There was consultation between the Regional Education and Municipality Directorate for direct placement in the school space. In April 2015, a proposal from the Department of Secondary Education of Heraklion Crete is included in the service program "Manpower Education Order and Lifelong Learning 2014-2020" to rebuild the school building of the Municipal School and Borizon Preschool.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Dean, you need to be briefed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, I will say more in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u236	Because there are three Members who are interested, no matter what Mr Syntagakis's initiative, please complete in one minute more if you want and in the second language you will mention the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u237	No, I'm done. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy and Tourism, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the Deputy Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, have tabled a draft law on "Agricultural cooperatives, forms of collective organisation of rural space and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Tenical Responsibility of Ministers", as applicable, on 5-4-2016, a criminal case against Ministers for Health. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have very much presented an idyllic picture, namely that all the positions of teachers have been covered, there is no question, and you, in any case, have come and solved what the previous ones have broken down. I think you're gonna need to land in real life. Of course, you are, but in a reality that says that we must be fully in line with what the OECD says, with what the European Union demands. I told you about the needs of the local people. Both the institutions' documents and the documents from the Association of Educational and the Municipality of Phaistos, as well as the documents from the parents themselves, say that there must be permanent educational staff to fully meet the needs. All schools' organic positions must be fully met. You do not answer that specifically. Instead, you are telling us that you will appoint twenty thousand teachers over three years of depth on the basis of electoral. What does that actually mean? It means that you refer to the bells the appointment of the necessary number of teachers in education. But, beyond that, I will remind you of last February's amendment and the new circular of the Ministry of Education recently in relation to the accession departments. What are you doing? You merge schools at the same time, with this merger, you merge the integration departments. That is, you're actually shutting down the integration sections. Instead of opening special treatment structures, instead of entrusting special educational staff, you are closing the membership courses. And not only that, but you are making it even more difficult by asking for three CEDEFOP opinions, which will take a year to give these opinions, knowing the situation. In relation to housing and building needs, you said it was not your responsibility. And don't tell me, you know it's not my responsibility for what I'm going to tell you, I'm not answering you. That's what's going on. So, what are you gonna do with it? Even if you appoint teachers I tell you - which you will not appoint, but will I tell you that you will appoint - to what schools will you appoint them, in what building infrastructure, on what school roof, which is inexistible and dispersed? And all of this as a result of sub-financing and to the municipalities, because the State charged all these powers to the municipalities without resources. Of course, it is not a question of charging responsibilities simply without resources. In the opinion of the Communist Party, the question of schooling and all these responsibilities relating to education, health, welfare and the municipality should not be passed on to the municipalities, because it breaks the single of education and, of course, the question of funding. I will tell you, therefore, that since recording the bodies and requests, at least twenty-two schools in each of the three municipal units of the Municipality of Faistos, the situation is spectacular and third-world. Building infrastructure old, abandoned, unconscious, school buildings without city permits, arbitraryly uncontrolled in terms of their staticity, shortages of instructional rooms, lesson in loose, poorly maintained rooms, hydraulic facilities with leaks, boilers, toilets, intangible and dangerous intangible spaces, liquids, plasters. This is the current situation. Of course, you inherited her. But what are you doing? Did you increase funding to the municipalities? Did you increase funding in education? Under what circumstances and conditions do you say that we will move to education in the 21st century and, in fact, to public dialogue with the educational institutions? Under these circumstances? That is why I will also present you with a detailed document by municipality and school, kindergarten, primary, high school, special education, an important range of building problems, infrastructure and needs, as is the case with the documents. I would just mention to you some examples: Elementary School of Galilee. In 2013 there was an earthquake of 6.3 shooters. The building has suffered serious static damage and a new building is required immediately. He has become “the ferret of Arta”. Since then, they have been housed in sewed rooms. I will also present to you the document of the Galilean Parents Association. Some decade ago, in Pigaidia, primary school and kindergarten. The building is abandoned. No one has ever taken care of the fate - notice - of the archaic and service material of the school, the library, the thrones, the laboratory when it closed. The ultimate disaster. Real indifference for the 21st century school. I'll testify for the Practical Photographics that shows from another perspective the state abandonment, what education your Government declares, like the previous ones. I addressed the Regional Education Directorate of the previous governments and the present government, and do you know what they said to me? "It is not our issue, it is a matter of the municipality." Of course, it is part of the library and infrastructure of the city. The archive material, though? When someone who studied at this school goes to ask for a document, who's gonna give it to him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Synatiakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u241	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, there is also the state of the Borizon school, as you said, which is also inappropriate. Kids are in danger. The solution, of course, is not the unsolved constructions. It has ninety children, with rapid development, and this community, mostly poultry. Parents are mobilized. Of course, a modern building that meets the needs of the entire area of Messara is required for the special kindergarten in the Municipality of Faistos. Not only the municipality of Phaistos, but all of Messara, fifty thousand inhabitants...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Covenant, please, close up. We don't speak. It's a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u243	I therefore ask you, Minister, very specifically on this issue: what measures will you take to meet the escalated needs of the school roof in the Municipality of Phaistos by implementing a modern school roof programme with the sole responsibility of the State itself and not to refer to the municipalities in general and abstract terms, which, of course, have their responsibility because they have accepted this situation today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 8 April 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The timely question by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the payments of commitments made by the Agricultural Development Programme (PAA) 2007-2013. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 740/44-2016 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the uncontrolled action of NGOs in the country. 3. The current question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the establishment of an Academy of the Port Body. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the payment of the balance of subsidies to producers in the country. 5. The question by number 754/5-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the increase of tickets in the country's archaeological sites and museums. 6. The question by No 744/4-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the exclusion of the Greek spirit from the Athens - Epidaurus Festival. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 751/5-2016 by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Haras Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the signing of the new international climate agreement. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question of the financing of the 2007-2013 NSRF projects, under No 741/4-2016, was raised by the Greek Prime Minister, Mr Annas-Michel Asmakopoulou, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the financing of the 2007-2013 NSRF projects in danger. 3. The question asked by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about non-performing loans. 4. The question by No 747/5-2016 of the Member of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, about the global outshore scandal - tax evasion. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u245	Your Honor, I am wrong when you say that I tried to present a idyllic situation. Did I not say that in total the gaps are eighty-two and that they are precisely due to the economic situation of the last six years? I must also remind you that both the Minister and I have stressed the absolute necessity of recruiting permanent teachers. If these recruitments are not carried out, it is doubtful that the schools will work. We have stressed this on several occasions. But let me tell you that you do not have good supervision of the whole situation there, with all the courage and courtesy that I wish to have in the face of you. I will tell you what the situation is: As far as special education schools are concerned, the Municipality of Faistou houses three special education structures. First, Special Municipal School and Preschool School of Pompiia with seventeen students, Special Municipal School with only one student, Special Vocational Education and Tymbaki Training Laboratory with twenty-seven students. After the allocation of the funds decided by the relevant regional council, the Special Elementary Deaf Moires is covered one day by a therapist. The Special Elementary School of Moires and Preschool of Pompiias was fully served with special assistant staff and special educational staff. Specifically, it was covered by a psychologist, a physiotherapist, a social worker, a therapist and a specialist. The Tymbaki Special Education and Training Laboratory was staffed with a psychologist, a social worker, a school nurse - two persons - special assistant staff. On the question of the permanentisation - because this has been made clear - of all contractors without conditions and conditions: Temporary substitute teachers are recruited with fixed-term private-law employment relationships which are concluded when they appear to be engaged in service at the Education Department of their recruitment area and ends with the end of the teaching year, on 21 June in primary and 30 June in secondary education. Recruitment of alternates to exceptional operational gaps, resulting from the teaching year, shall be made from a single table drawn up each year by industry and specialisation of primary and secondary education on the basis of evaluation criteria laid down in the current legal framework and included in the Ministerial Decision adopted for this purpose. Appropriate evaluation criteria apply to the preparation of a single list of hours worked per regional training department from which candidate teachers are recruited to cover teaching hours under a fixed-term private-law contract. This legislation, which governs the recruitment of temporary assistants and school-leaving teachers, does not provide for their permanent appointment as requested by this current question, but for their appointment as permanent only in the context of the provisions governing the appointment of permanent teachers in primary and secondary education, both during the current transitional period - this is Article 9 of Law 3848/2010 - and after the expiry of that, Article 2 of Law 3848/2010. In addition, the legal framework laying down the recruitment procedure in relation to the appropriations approved for that purpose per teaching year shows that it is not a given recruitment of the same alternate or hourly teachers in each year. As a result, temporary Deputy Teachers do not fall under the scheme of renewable successive or non-conventional contracts because they are recruited in accordance with the existing training needs and until the end of the teaching year concerned, and in addition, they are not permanently provided and are not allowed under the existing provisions. About the funding of schools to cover their operating costs, this is done by the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction credit through the relevant municipalities. That's right. Care for school accommodation - acquisition of land, construction, repair, maintenance, equipment - falls within the competence of the municipalities. Similar actions are carried out by the company "KITIRIAN INFRASTRUCTURES S.A." through the Public Investment Programme of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. The free transfer of secondary and primary school pupils who live away from school falls under the responsibility of the secondary local government bodies. As regards the cleanliness of the school units for the teaching year 2016-2017 and in so far as the needs are not met by the existing staff, they may be covered by contracts drawn up by the municipalities concerned. For the costs of these contracts, a specific appropriation shall be entered in the budget of the Ministry of Interior, which shall be allocated by decision of the Minister, by analogy, to the municipalities concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, the public school...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u246	Close, Mr. Undersecretary, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u247	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Thank you for your tolerance. The public school tolerated the economic and social crisis caused by the memoranda, mainly thanks to patrioticism and the care of teachers. We're here to support this effort. We want schools open, human, democratic, open to society that are involved in activities and cooperation with local and international levels. We want schools that will communicate with children and not just exercise control, which will cultivate critical thinking, philosophy, talent. We want schools that will work in a climate of inspiration, cooperation and solidarity that will make everyone who lives there happy, educators and trainees. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Symphony, no more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u250	The Minister said something and I would like the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u251	Yeah, but you realize I left you six and six, a total of twelve minutes instead of five. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u252	But he said I don't have any knowledge of the space.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u253	Here, you have the floor for thirty seconds. For thirty seconds, though. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Full picture you have, too, I have, and the rest of the Members from Crete have, the residents and the institutions. I have given you specific documents. Unless people are crazy. Unless they generally want to mess with you. They are actors in the region, for the municipality, for the teachers association, for the parents. I said very specific things about your special treatment, and I didn't analyse you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Symphony, please, not speak again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u256	I said about Pompea's special school...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u257	Not again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u258	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...which is also housed there, and the centre for the restoration of serious incidents, and also...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Symphony, please, we're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u260	...for special high school in the area. Is there a high school specialist?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u261	Well, we're done, Mr. Covenant! You were able to put it in a phrase: that everything you said is not personal, but that of the actors in the region. You needed ten seconds for that. Before we go to the next round of topical questions, which are two - will be answered by Mrs Marina Chrysovelonis, State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks - and because, as strange as it may seem, many Greeks attend Parliament's meetings, because some things have been heard in the Minister's replies, I am obliged to say this as a former self-government, yes, indeed, what you said has been charged to the municipalities with the infamous 'Kalikrati', but then - if you read the law, the report of the General Accounting Office - is supposed to be the privilege of 'Kalikratis' with four billion euros. Not only did it not take the dowry of the four billion in order for the municipalities to meet their additional obligations, but - Mr Alexiadis is not responsible, but because of specialty - the CFPs taken in 2009 have been gradually reduced from 2010 until now by 60%. So not hang the mayors now because they have no money. Now let's go to the next topical question. The twelfth will be discussed under number 701/23-3-2016 in the context of a topical question by the MP of Heraklion, New Democracy. Eleftherios Aygeakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the orderly operation of the Kazantzakis airport. As I said before, the State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mrs Marina Chrysoveloni, will respond. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, let me burn down Mr Spirtzi's absence on a matter which is essentially his responsibility. The airport "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS" of Heraklion is the second - along with Chania, now - the largest airport in terms of visitors and flights on an annual basis after the airport "ELETERRIOS VENIZELOS" in Athens. In particular, during the tourist season, passenger traffic goes beyond the airport's capabilities. However, until the new airport is built and started operating in Kastelli, it is important that the ‘Nikos KAZADZAKIS’, the existing airport in Heraklion, should not collapse. In the past one and a half years there has been absolutely no substantial upgrade, so that the airport itself is saturated and qualitatively problematic. There is no, Minister, Mr President, nor is there any need for this airport to operate. Not even the necessities! In this direction, certain measures can contribute, with their immediate implementation, and I am sure I will have specific answers from the Minister. For example, I mention - and very quickly - the following: Direct replacement of ticket management, boarding and luggage management electronic equipment. The existing system has gone far beyond its strength, requiring repair at regular intervals. Secondly, a general requirement - for all airports - is the installation of a centralised baggage control system in the flow of luggage belts. At present, the passenger is double-checked by the airline, but also by the service and safety company, resulting in double-tailed departures and increased service time. Thirdly, there is a serious problem in the exterior areas of boarding, landing of passengers, buses, etc. Also, the road to and from Alikarnassos passes very close to the buildings and limits the possibilities for shaping. If you join the road area in the aerodrome projector, as there is also the main access from the highway, potentially larger areas are unified and much better landing and landing can be done. Fourthly, we need to strengthen the police force immediately. It's not your responsibility, I'm just filing it as one of the airport's problems. Finally, there are only twenty-three seats for aeroplanes today, with a lot of pressurized space as well. There is a space rarely used by the Air Force. It's a simple matter of settlement between the Air Force and the HR. In any event, the positions must be at 30 to allow for the minimum capacity. Simple interventions will facilitate both the staff and the public. In conclusion, I would remind you that at a meeting held before the summer of 2015 in Mr Stathakis' office and with Mr Spirtzi present, there were also the Governor of Crete and the Mayor of Heraklion and all the Hercules MPs, there was a commitment on the part of Minister and Deputy Minister at the time, that there would be meetings and immediately initiatives to solve some of these issues. There has never been a second meeting and of course the problems remain unsolved. In my view, the lie is dominated everywhere, is that where it would be gone? So I ask you, Minister, when and what interventions do you intend to take and make directly for the airport 'KAZADZAKIS', why did the 2016 tourist season start? Already the first passengers have begun to arrive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u263	The State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks will answer Mr Chryssovelonis. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u264	First of all, Mr Papoutsis, do not precede your judgments before you receive the answers you have put questions to our Ministry. As far as Mr Spirtzi's absence is concerned, it is not due to indifference but to a very large workload. In our Ministry, and in parliamentary control, there is uniform representation and synergy. Mr President, please do not take my time off my answer. If I get over time, I'll take it away from my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u265	You'll have the relative tolerance, too. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u266	The state airport of Heraklion "KAZADZAKIS" is indeed one of the largest airports, Mr. MEP, on arrivals in Greece. It is a fact that there are problems and shortcomings. I think it is not here to go back to the past and to see when. However, these shortcomings and problems are the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Networks trying to resolve in the best possible way, despite, of course, the difficult economic situation, which is plagued by our country. In this direction, therefore, a project and study programme has been drawn up by the Civil Aviation Service, including all the projects required for the proper operation of the Heraklion airport. Totally concise, I will tell you that the design, which is needed, has now been made to restore local decay and road maintenance work. The technical study of the project has been prepared and approved by the above service. For the eastern expansion of the airport at Heraklion Airport, the final study has been carried out and the project study is being carried out by the Port Authority of Heraklion. This section of the extension, which has a total area of about a thousand square metres, on two levels, will serve as a priority passengers from cruise ships. I move on to the north extension and the reorganisation of existing airport building with a total area of two thousand four hundred square metres. A proposal was submitted to extend the airport building from duty-free stores, so-called OEMs, and is under acceptance by the Civil Aviation Service. As regards baggage control equipment, a technical specification has already been drawn up by Heraklion State Airport concerning the modification of the ‘GOLD AIR’ departure systems to a semi-automatic luggage handling system and has been transmitted to the EASA to obtain the relevant approval. We have also requested the concession of land from the GFCM, with the aim of developing new facilities and environment space at the airport. In fact, it has recently been sent by our Ministry's Civil Aviation Service with precise topographical representation, as requested by the OHIM, for the concession of the following areas. An area of about forty acres, in the wider area of the airport on the city side, for the development of the necessary airport facilities, as well as two hundred and eighty square meters, near the 106 Military Unit, for the development of general aviation facilities. Finally, honourable Member, for the current period of tourist season, seven aircraft parks on the Air Force's aircraft parking floor have already been made available by the OSH. In this respect, it should be noted that, in the absence of State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty, any aid granted by a Member State or through State resources is incompatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u268	Madam Minister, I will be sorry, because your answers show the size of ignorance, your insufficiency and your ideology and not you personally, especially your Minister. You didn't tell us anything you had done as a government. Instead, you described us actions that have started two years ago and which are all in the drawer. Mr. Spirtzis is very good at having Mars Velouchiotis in his office and inspiring him and inspiring you at the Ministry, but unfortunately you're late at everything and you've broken up everything. We're giving you ready solutions. We propose simple solutions to you and at little cost. They are solutions that are supported by both the Region of Crete and the Municipality of Heraklion and by all Heraklion Cretan MPs and also by the tourist operators of Crete. They are solutions that will save money and improve the operation of the airport. Even this, though, seems difficult for your government, even the simple one being raised to major ones and finally to mess it up. Today the airport "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS", instead of being ready to welcome thousands of tourists and visitors, has serious deficiencies in key issues. However, despite the particular importance of the airport and the tourist economic and cultural development of Heraklion and Crete in general, you, Madam Minister, together with your Chief, present - absentee Mr Spirtzi - let the shortcomings increase and problems accumulate. We had the same debate last year, Mr President, on 18 July - I remember - and then you accused us personally of having received the so-called 'caramella'. But this year, who's to blame? You still haven't found your pacemaker yet? If you hadn't insisted on your obsessions and ideas, the competition for the airport in Kastelli would have gone ahead. You have been delayed two years to satisfy your internal searches, and this is particularly about SYRIZA. You have delayed the use of the fourteen regional airports for more than a year, please. The concession procedure is finally completed at the end of 2016. It took you a year, Mr. Contonis, because you were raped - to solve the issues of your pain and soul and wipe your tears. You did the same with the Heraklio - Messara road, and you did the same with the Panormo - Exanti road, and with dozens of other projects throughout the country, which will be the subject of other intervention. Don't think you'll get out of parliamentary control. You are the epitome of neoliberal policies, Minister, of irresponsibility, of course. You're just late to accept it and you're embarrassed to say it. And that's the uterus of governmental insufficiency as a whole. This refusal cost you the Greek people dearly. It costs too much because it has administrative costs, it has economic costs, it costs the quality of life of citizens and visitors, it has national costs. And to get this over with, it's time to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u269	Mrs. Chrysosvelloni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u270	Mr Papoutsis, with all due respect for your face, it seems that you have not listened to what I said in my prototype, obviously because you had already prepared it, because I saw that you read it. But in any case you should at least take care to adapt it to my prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u271	I heard you very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u272	In any case, Mr KAZANTZAKIS, following all that, the planning of the necessary interventions and, by extension, the gradual implementation, so that this airport, KAZANTZAKIS, is fully operational, is always done in the context and logic, despite what you have said in your position, that in six years' time, the new international airport in Kastelli, Crete, will operate, a project that will be completely overmodern, such as, Mr Papoutsis, is undeniably appropriate in Crete and its inhabitants. With the completion of the airport's construction at Kastelli, as you can see, any equipment will be transferred. In view of this planning, therefore, you understand, on the basis of the common sense, but also of the difficult economic situation in which our country finds itself, that any design concerning the KAZANDZAKIS airport must be carried out with enthusiasm and something that you did not care to do while you were government. That's what I have to say. So don't get ahead of yourself. The government is aware of the difficult economic situation in our country, which is something you have not done while you have been government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u273	You have not answered the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u274	Find out what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mrs. Chrysosvelloni. Don't argue. We enter the second with number 1106/12-11-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the stay of the European Network and Communication Safety Agency (ENISA) in Heraklion Crete. Mrs. Chrysosvelloni will answer. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in order to connect to the previous topic, you need to work at least with the officials and operators of the island to be the airport not only secure, which I believe is no doubt that this is why you care - but also to be commensurate with the requirements of the great movement that you have previously agreed to serve. I wish you were the lucky Minister - because five others before you have announced this - which will result in the competition for 6 May, as far as I know, for the international airport. Under no circumstances should the necessary maintenance and safety equipment be deferred in its name after six years of transport. We have a subject today for discussion, which has also dealt with the Plenary and Greek Government for too many years. I have measured around a hundred questions in Parliament and the European Parliament on the subject of ENISA. It is the European Agency for the Safety of Communications and Information, which was decided in 2004 to take place in our country and to be based in Heraklion, Crete, in conjunction with the Institute for Technology and Research there. There were preconditions. Questions have actually been about these conditions so that the efforts of some people and of Europe who wanted to take the organization from Greece from day one would not be successful. So we have to see that all the obligations have been met gradually. Up to a building, now that we're talking, four and a half thousand square meters has become more modern in the establishment of the organization. The European School issues, as the Minister said earlier, have been resolved. There has been a court ruling on 29 November 2011 from the European Court of Justice on the appeal brought by the executive - please! - Director of the European Court of Justice that there are no communications and all the relevant documents, which have been rejected by the Court of Justice. So we're coming today. All governments have shown a good mood to the demands of the executive director and also to have some Europeans working together. Unfortunately, however, this good attitude has been exploited. So in 2011 there was a consensus, to create a space here for just meetings, without permanent staffing. The common agreement was expressly said. Subsequently, with another Minister, this changed from a meeting office to a branch with partial staff. Today we are on the point, Mr President, unfortunately, to say. Well, what, in Heraklion, will now be the seat, since here is the most world! This was therefore an orderly gradual removal of the agency's seat from Crete, from Heraklion but they do not stop there, because they are also intended to take it from Greece. So, with my question, I would like to know if the relevant Ministry, which is yours, apart from having co-responsibility in the individual issues with education, has made some planning, has made some decisions - seeing this pursuit that exists from two to three sides - to strengthen the seat, to reinstate things at least as regards the last agreement, which said there is a meeting office, even a branch and some partnerships that are needed in Athens, but the seat and the heart of the organization should be in Heraklion once all the conditions have been fulfilled. We, too, from Crete, are asking for this because Athens will not manage, if there is this last retreat, to keep the organization.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u277	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u278	MEP, since you have begun your position in relation to the previous answer and I would like to say that the government is very clear in order to ensure that the Kazadzakis airport continues to operate, and of course, the new airport will always be targeted in Kastelli within six years of the day we are talking about. Now on this question, first I would like to thank you for the question you have put. It is really very important that you deal with your question. I would just like to point out to you that of the three issues you raise in your question, entitled to elements (a), (b) and (c), I will only reply to the first, the titled under (a) which refers to the spatial problem of the European School of Heraklion, because this relates to the responsibilities of our Ministry. I would therefore point out the following, which will also answer your final two questions. The operation of the European School in Heraklion for the possibility of schooling for officials of the European Network and Information Security Agency, the so-called ENISA, was one of the main commitments undertaken by our country as a host country. This school set up, as you probably know, in a newly built building has received the first two European Commission certifications, but it has been suggested that the next certification on the part of the committee should be carried out in new facilities and with the required standards that a European school must meet. The University of Crete has therefore granted a suitable plot within the wider area of its facilities and near the facilities of ENISA, and the process for land-use change has been completed, as well as actions by the "KITIRIAN SUBMISSES S.A.", in order to provide readiness for the immediate preparation, Mr. MEP, of study and availability of funds for the construction of this school. According to this timetable, building building as you might know had to have been completed by September 2013, which was not the case. Perhaps that is why you can tell us more, given that, as we all know, you have also participated in the New Democracy - PASOK government. Today and after continuous contact with the ‘CITIAN SUBCOMMITTEE S.A.’. And, of course, with the president and director, we were informed that the premeditated architectural design was completed and that the implementation study, calculated to be ready within the current year of 2016, was started. Subsequently, the tendering of the project with an implementation schedule in 2018 will be followed. In the meantime, however, because of the problems presented in the building, where the European School is currently housed, it has been decided to relocate it to a building at the University of Crete, and to that end by the end of this year, the intervention projects for the construction of this building will be auctioned, so that the European School immediately after finding the functionality of the building can be transferred there as soon as possible. I will stop here and in my denture I will finish your questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u279	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u280	Obviously the Minister has misunderstood why he did not read the questions, but I would like to point out, Mr President, a malfunction which may be dealt with by amending the Rules of Procedure. There was the intention - and for the first time perhaps the understanding - to discuss this question together on a next day because he could not be present on Monday or today because of the strike Mr Dannelis, who had tabled a question on the same subject. It wasn't possible because of a bureaucratic malfunction. The Ministry had agreed, and maybe we should see it. It has also been discussed today on the same subject with the Ministry of Education, and what the Minister said now about the European School has been answered in the previous debate. I ask another thing about the second part of the question that I raise as a timely one, which is what the actions of the relevant Ministry are - the relevant Ministry is the Infrastructure with its communication arm - for the operation of ENISA in Greece and not the issues of spatial planning, which may be the responsibility of the Minister but it is not the issue that I ask of spatial planning. I ask the Infrastructure, Transport and Communications, as it may be said, which is responsible for negotiating with the European Union, the relevant directorates, the European Committee on the subject of ENISA, what it will do in relation to the seat of ENISA in Heraklion. That's the question. The conditions, as you have said, are slowly being met both for the European School and for the building and for communications, transport and we ask ourselves this. Will you, too, continue the tactics of previous ministers, which I told you, since 2011, have started to show a good mood to the supposed good things then proposals from the executive directors and other players of the European Union, so that there can be offices at the beginning of meetings in Athens and then a branch and now they want to take the seat? That is what I ask you, whether there is any design or whether there will be one next stage. You don't have to answer today that there is. It may not exist and you may see it in the next space. After all, you have recently taken up your duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u282	Mr Dannelis, you are right about what you said at the beginning of your position - given that he has submitted a more general question, if you wish - that it would be good and easier to answer both questions at the same time, so that there would also be a global answer. In any case, although our Ministry was willing in this direction, I do not know what happened and it was not implemented. In any case, you will also hear the answer which I will give on 19 April that I have scheduled to come to answer. In any case, as I told you at the beginning of the placement...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u283	If you do not answer us, I will present you with an update today and you will reply to me later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u284	You must testify to us. In any case, as I said at the beginning of my position, our department will always come. You should be aware that our Ministry aims to answer the questions, but of course we also need proper preparation, so that the answer to the questions is clear. As far as the answer I gave you in my prototype is concerned, I mentioned the three issues you raise. The first, therefore, concerned the spatial problem of the European School in Heraklion. So I think I have answered you. Now for the government, since you have asked what is the aim of both the government and our ministry, I would like to tell you that, for the government and our ministry, the responsible and accelerating European Agency for the Safety of Networks and Information, the issue of ENISA's stay in our country is really very important. So I will tell you that it is of the utmost importance to us. I would also agree with the point you yourself made in the question you have put to our Ministry that the presence of a European Agency, such as ENISA, can only be positive in terms of Crete and the country as a whole. Afterwards, then, the successful outcome of the Network and Information Safety Directive - and I am referring to the NIS directive - is now being strengthened by operating monitoring. Therefore, and always with the goal of evaluating 2017, I would like to assure you that our government's concern is to fight and claim to maintain the permanent residence of ENISA in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much. The third question will be discussed with number 738/4-2016 for the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Finance, on the cooperative of Members in a "fileto" area with graceful terms and provocative treatment. Mr Alexiadis will answer the timely question. Please, Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. A while ago, we read in a newspaper - and because there was an explosion out there of an explosive machine outside a building on the Academy street - about the existence - and we read it in the newspaper "Dimoratia" - of a building association of MPs. I was particularly impressed by what I had read at the time, and we looked to find on the Golden Dawn what this building association of MPs is, because something didn't work out very well in our ears. We have therefore found that an enterprise, which operates and operates commercially with real estate which has and operates completely illegally, has been created. We've been looking to find out which area this is and where it's done. Finally, we learned at the Golden Dawn that this area that works as a state in a state - and I will explain on the way because I say this - is the well-known area of the State in Kifisia. It is, therefore, an area in which in the early 1950s we learned, with the signature of Constantine Karamanlis and with the agreement of all the others - because one of those who went to buy and part of this land was the ideological enemy of Karamanlis, Elias Elios - they all went and set up this business that we once again named. He's practically been imprisoned by Greek citizens. This area is taken away, Minister, and they take advantage of it as they please. We didn't know that thing, we learned it completely. The one question I would like to ask you is whether you were aware of the existence of this cooperative and, if so, what you have done about these absurdities that are happening. Also to mention some names from those who are in this building cooperative and enjoy its privileges. It is Constantine Karamanlis and his brother Achilles, Charles Papoulias, Constantine Mitsotakis, Dora Bakoyannis, Apostolos Kaklamanis, Antonis Samaras, George Souflias, Nikos Papandreou, Sifis Valyrakis, Manolis Kefaloyannis, Anastasios Neradzis, Ioannis Tragakis and many more. So I said that it is a state in a state, because we saw that it is the state area and the stores there on an area of at least forty acres, these people are taking advantage of them, renting them, and no one knows what procedures. In fact, it belongs to others - I have only naturally heard it - 'POLITIA TENNIS CLUB'. This money doesn't know where they're going, what they're doing and how they manage. In fact, we have learned - we do not know whether this is true - that the cooperative reserve is about EUR 2 000 000. There's other evidence. I would also like to ask you the following question, Mr Minister, and answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u287	A little short, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u288	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is a moral issue, but it is also a legal issue. I would like you to say to me: Article 13 in the n.d.93/1987, according to which the Minister could decide to dismantle the cooperative when the cooperative is diverted from its purpose, as has been clearly done with this partnership. This provision was repealed by Law 4280-08-2014 in the middle of a Memorandum. We would like to ask you as Golden Dawn: Will you bring this law back? Will you abolish this unacceptable cooperative - and whoever else works in this way - which has been done? Will it also be required to turn the revenues of so many years back, what has been in various mysterious pockets? Also, ask for management, financial and legal control of all these scandals that have occurred. And ask public spaces to be returned to the residents to whom they belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u289	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, with full respect for the role of Parliament and without accepting what you have said, which is not my responsibility, because many of what you have raised is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance - I want to say to you that you must address another ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u291	You answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u292	I will reply to you on the issues of the Ministry of Finance. I will present to you in the Minutes the three documents I have from the relevant departments and give you answers on the issues relating to the Ministry of Finance. There are also issues which are the responsibility of other ministers and you must address other ministries. First of all, as far as the issue of tax obligations is concerned, as is apparent from a document from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, the Building Cooperative of MPs, the "COLICIA" in relation to property ownership taxation is dealt with in every case, as is the case with other speculative legal persons, is liable to submit a statement of real estate and the payment of HPAI, and there is no specific provision for favourable tax treatment. As far as the second point of your question is concerned, there is no favourable tax treatment. They will pay - and they pay - what they are obliged to pay. In general, the Ministry of Finance has no right to favourable treatment to anyone. They must all pay their responsibilities, much more the state bodies, which, by our example, must lead the citizens. Secondly, with regard to who are members, the Directorate-General for Economic Policy of the Ministry of Finance states that we have no picture of who they are members. However, he has addressed the cooperative and has called for a detailed list of the owners, formerly and current Members. As soon as we have this information, we'll pass it on to you. Of course, from a rough search on the internet, I see that all of this evidence is there and you can have an image. But as far as the members are concerned, we have no evidence at the Ministry of Finance. Finally, in relation to the public estate, I have nothing to do with the area and I have no picture of the 'POLITIA TENNIS CLUB'. I live in Nice. I don't have a picture of whether it's a public estate or not. However, the audit carried out in the archive of the Directorate-General for Public Property clearly shows that there is no known public property in the place where the ‘POLITIA TENNS CLUB’ is located. So these are the services' answers. These are the issues that I can answer. The other issues relating to cooperatives, control issues and others are the responsibility of other ministries. You need to get in there to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u294	Minister, thank you for your answer. You tried to say what's in your jurisdiction. Yeah, all right, but there are terrible ethical issues here. Here are issues in which Greek MPs exploit privileges appallingly, inconceivably and especially at a time like the present situation when the Greek citizen is falling. This on its own is morally downfalling. Of course, previous governments and those who are here now have no respect for the Greek citizen, and that seems to be quite clear. What we want to do as Golden Dawn is to highlight some of the issues that exist. I told you before, and I will continue now, that the State, which we all knew as a name, but we did not know that it was a galaian village in substance and operated autonomously, is a state in state. And we've reached the shameful point in this department, in this settlement, say it as you like, the water, the public good, to manage this cooperative. There's no right for NSA to intervene there. We denounce that. It's scary, and it's incomprehensible. And to remind you that with this information we found, the revenue from the sale of water alone, is around 170,000 euros a year. But tell me the truth, as Minister of the House, as MPs here listening to this whole thing, how you judge in a settlement in Greece the management of public good, our water, the building cooperative of MPs. We are talking about a punctuality, we are talking about a shame that works all over this Chamber, because there are many Members who did not know it, and I agree that there will also be other groups, but now that we are learning it, these things must end. It is incomprehensible that I tell you again, that they act as a state in the state. I should also like to point out that under Article 6 of the Statute for a Building Cooperative, members can become members not only of parliamentarians but also of spouses and relatives from blood to third grades. I mean, we're talking about grandchildren, grandsons, nephews, and he's on his way out. We're talking about shame! And we'll stress something else. The rhetoric projects that have been carried out since 1954, because since then this is the scandal, this atrocity, were issued to form the area and were drafted by the cooperative themselves and signed without any control by the relevant ministers. That is why there is an opinion drawn up in 2010 by a three-member panel of lawyers, appointed following a decision of the Athens Bar Association. That's all there is, they've put it aside, and the disgusting ones, these prickly guys are still going on with this process. We demand that today as Golden Dawn by the government that this be brought to an end. I repeat that we demand that public spaces should all be given back to Greek citizens, where they deserve and what they deserve. Also, the areas that these guys have are around a thousand acres in the area that we are discussing and around four and a half thousand are in the Skoroneer region of Viotia. They've got huge areas of land. Imagine we're talking with sunlight, daylight, about an area that all of Greece knows about. Imagine and let the Greek citizen understand what other "orgias" are done at his expense. We must also stress lastly that the members who are in this cooperative, apart from the lands and houses they take and who are their own, without having given anything to the Greek State - should - also receive loans from the cooperative. Is the loans, obviously, one of what they get from the rents, from the various other activities they do? We don't know. You're the Minister and you're the government, and you have to solve it. It's a big deal. It is about moral issues and it is a shame that in Greece today these shameful things are happening. It is unacceptable and a solution needs to be found.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u295	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u296	Mr Pinheiro, as I said in my first speech, you raise issues which I cannot answer. They are of more general interest, but you must address other ministers, I cannot answer you. It's not my responsibility. With regard to two issues which are in my power, first of all the issue of public property. There is no way that the Ministry of Finance will not exhaust any possibility of guaranteeing, restoring or defending public property. There's been too much. There's no way we can leave the party we found at the Treasury Department to continue. And already with what we have done in cooperation with the General Secretariat of Public Property and in cooperation with the EBRD, we have targeted actions and concrete plan for what we are going to do about public property. Unfortunately, however, too many issues have already ended legally. So they've become transfer titles, they've been finalized. There's nothing else we can do. It is political responsibility for those who did what they have done in previous years. But as far as the public property is concerned, as we have received it, there is no way that we can spare anyone. I would like to make something clear on the subject of taxation and your question. There are no gala villages in Greece in terms of taxation, smuggling and corruption or anything else. We proved that to the Treasury. We do not hesitate to check on anyone, and we understand from various reports and attacks who are disturbing those controls we are doing. We do not hesitate to open issues that we found in the Ministry of Finance' s skeletons. We do not hesitate to make ministerial decisions on smuggling of tobacco and fuel smuggling, which have been snuggling so long in the laws of the Ministry of Finance. Dairy villages in the field of taxation and smuggling do not exist and anyone who has a specific complaint, who has it publicly, privately or in any other way, and who will investigate it directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u297	Allow me to make a change in the order of questions, because the Minister for Culture and Sport has a special job to do. That is why I propose that the fifth under number 727/1-4-2016 should be preceded by a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the problems in the field of Greek football. Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. This timely question comes by postponement, of course not by reason of the Minister. Minister, if we had this debate a few years ago, I would start by saying that the glass is over. But now, with what has been said in recent days, the last time in football, the glass has broken. We're the only country that even before the championship starts, we know who's gonna be a champion. In recent years, of course, they do not let the cup get them out of their hands, and we know now and who will be a cupr. This is not even done in sub-Saharan Africa. We see definitions of arbitrators without any logic, arbitrators with tragic performance that should not be in the tables set out in critical high-interest struggles and made due to their provocative arbitrage the moral perpetrators of an incident. I would like to remind you here, Minister, of the tragic arbitration of the final Olympiacos - Asteras Tripolis Cup a few years ago, where the only ones who did not see the penalty were the referee and the assistant, but all Greece and the foreign media passed it around the world, dragging into the matter of football our homeland again. This referee, instead of being deleted from the tables, participated regularly next year. Just for some matches he was denied the right to participate in the playoff tables, if I remember well, then. But next year he would normally refer to it. At the latest events in Toumba - I am referring to the cup - he was once again a negative protagonist. This time the decision of the referee, who closed his eyes to a clear violation of the penalty, resulted in fans entering the field and interrupting the game. We all condemn the incidents. There is no healthy fan who does not condemn the incidents. But, at the same time, we also have to condemn this moral automobile, the referee. We need to remember here - because strange things have happened - that the penalty was not given, even if PAOK had a balance then, Olympiacos would have the advantage because he would play in the Karaiskaki court with the tie. However, the referee did not charge the penalty, and the two guaranteed Olympiacos victory. And here comes a piece of information about a bet played in Malaysia in the two ways, namely the victory of Olympiacos of 13 million. You see that there are shadows, Minister, and with such acts, such arbitrations come to be strengthened and considered a reality. To this, of course, the referee and the Panathinaikos have charged much. As far as the CED is concerned, it is absolutely essential, Mr Minister, that you look at it with particular sensitivity, because that is where all the dark paths of our football are regulated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u299	Mr Colleague, you can add more to your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u300	Show your tolerance for half a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u301	All right, you've got one more minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, at its last meeting, LIGA showed that the situation reached the unprecedented. We have become the target of negative comments from the international sports press, where they speak of widespread corruption in the field of football. This corruption, in fact, also results in OPAP thinking to leave a donor to Greece. We see associations from all over Greece denouncing the Management of the NGO and asking her to resign, healthy entrepreneurs, team owners threatening to leave the Championship if the state does not intervene. I'm accelerating my protology. I wanted to say some other things. You have rightly done so, Minister, and you have interrupted the Cup. I would like you to see what is happening with the championship, because that is where the same groups are playing, the same referees exist. In conclusion, I would like to ask you, Minister: will you speed up the procedures for the actual clearance of football and if so? Are you willing to dismantle football, despite any cost and on an equal footing, on an equal footing? Do you intend to intervene in the crises and in the selection of arbitrators and observers, as they take place every summer, in order to finally stop these unacceptable arbitrations and - if so - in what way? I close with sports justice, where your intervention is necessary, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, too. Mr. Contonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is well known to everyone that a regime of suspicion and unreliability currently determines the climate in Greek professional football. First of all, those responsible are those involved in professional football, the administration of the federation, union actors and the host armies, who are formed to put pressure on them all the time. However, I would like to stress that this situation has not fallen from heaven. It is a product of a client state that had been built in previous years and has had to do with the relationship that had developed between the PASOK and the New Democracy governments and the football players. This interactive regime allowed legislation to be passed by the Greek Parliament despite the Constitution and to give a status uncontrolled and opaque to what the Football Federation has done for years. I would like to reply directly to you at this point: the government will fully respect the self-government, not only the football Federation but all the sports federations. We had proclaimed that from the very beginning. It is not that it prevents us from opposing the fact that there are international conventions in the country. We firmly believe that sporting federations must themselves determine what is happening in the sport, which they cultivate and represent and must have the first word. However, another is the self-employed who operates under the Constitution and another status of immunity. I would therefore like to stress that this immunity - autonomy, as you describe it - has been lifted by the Greek Parliament in May last year. We have asked not only the SSU to adapt its statutes and regulations with international prisoners, i.e. those which FIFA and UEFA have included in their statutes but also the international federations to supervise this work. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, neither the NCA has moved in this direction, namely modernising and harmonising its statutes and regulations with the statutes and regulations of the international federations, nor the international federations for a year now - although we have called them and have given them the support of the government in doing what they need to do - have not acted. Unfortunately, we have once again reached a serious problem, which is even charged as an intervention by the Government in the field of football. I would also like to point out from this point of view that there is no intervention on soccer issues when at least the decision to terminate the cup was made as grounds for the public order and the protection of social peace. These are rules and values, which are safeguarded not only by domestic law, but also by European law and have been confirmed by judgments of the European Court of Justice. As you raise other issues, I would like to tell you briefly, because time has passed, that on the issue of disciplinary justice, again on the initiative of the Government, in agreement with the federations, regular judges were placed last year in the administration of disciplinary justice. That is what we consider to be a great improvement. But where is the problem here? There's no EPA because I don't want to put all this unjustly on the Greek Football Federation. There are those who, although in the adoption of the law, defended the relevant provision when it came to the exercise of responsibility by the ordinary judges, who were judging by the Disciplinary Law of the Hellenic Football Federation, were against their decisions. I think this is unacceptable, this is unacceptable. Group operators and administrations must approach this process with respect and bear in mind that the disciplinary bodies of the Hellenic Football Federation are no longer responsible for pensionable judges or lawyers, who are in fact involved in felony acts, according to what has been made public and we know but by regular judges who enjoy all the guarantees of the Constitution and we must respectfully and with caution talk about these matters when decisions are adopted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u305	Thank you. Mr. Lazaridis, please speed up your dentistry. Give only additional information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u306	I will be brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u307	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u308	First of all, Minister, I would like to say that we do not need to do so, because for many things, that is, for the whole situation in which the Greek football has arrived, the NCA has the largest share of responsibility. To see also the attitude, Minister, when they asked the president of the NGO, after the PAOK Cup game with Olympiacos, after the incidents, to say his opinion on the arbitration, he said he wasn't watching the game. Imagine the attitude! The president of the NGO did not see the main match of that race! I would then like to stand - and I cannot pass this because I am also Pontius, Minister - on the unacceptable designations of the factors of a particular group, which, unfortunately, was also a former Minister, who is well known for his performance. On his own minister's behalf, the negative record was that the price of fuel was up in one day to 20% by 25%. They accused Ivan Savvidis of being a Russian, as a mushroom. And I, that is, as Pontius, have to feel a mushroom here in my homeland. In particular - there is no need to support anyone, Savvidis - I will say two, three things as Pontius and Greek for Mr Savvidis. Mr. Savvidis, instead of making his money abroad, as did the company of this Minister and other known factors, he brought money to Greece and invested it. Over 300 million euros have invested in our country. He also took care to pay off, to settle PAOK's debts, unlike others who took care of the "baby" of the downgrading to settle these issues. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to make two, three proposals on the subject of the WEU. Firstly, I would like to say to you that the introduction of simple proportionality will be a blow to morbidity and will create incentives for the participation of young people with appetite and supply. Simple analogue ensures the principle of self-government and extends free election to the institutions of associations and federations of individuals wider, mutual acceptance and conquest. Secondly, it is ensured that no more than two terms of office of members of the board of directors of associations and federations will be elected. And thirdly - I am ending here - according to the existing system, they are voting for the NDP's Board of Directors of three people from each Union. The choice of these people, however, is made with the suggestion of the President of the local union, i.e. "Yiannis is buying Yiannis drinks".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u309	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u310	I'm closing, Mr. President. I won't need a second. The proposal is to vote at the General Assembly on the appointment of the three representatives and candidates to be simple members and not exclusively members of the Board of Directors and to vote through a general meeting and to be persons outside the Board of Directors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u311	Thank you. I would, of course, like to ask you, Mr President, for this. It is not right for questions to be developed to be personally, photographic defenders or convicted or deported - in this case, it was defenders - football players, etc. You realise that this creates a feeling that may be in contradiction with the reason why you raised the matter. This is generally the case, and the Minister will answer that. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u312	That is right, Mr President. I'll answer in general. With regard to the proposals put forward by my dear colleague, I would like to stress that we are seriously concerned about the legislative committee we have set up for the drafting of a new sport law. Its work has already been completed and I look forward to the conclusion of a difficult and long-term effort, which has been made by all the members of the legislature, which I thank and publicly for their contributions, within the next few days. The second thing I would like to stress is that I agree that too many pathogens arise from the way in which the Greek football is run and structured. This is where responsibility falls first and foremost in the Football Federation. I told you, however, that others are not even responsibilities, not only for football players but also for political leaders who have been withholding this situation for so many years. I would also like to stress that it is not the government and the state's job to engage in arbitration. These are issues which football itself must resolve and resolve in a proper way, in order to make it the same credible and to understand that there are no shadows and vulgar errors that may indeed exist. However, what I would like to stress is that in the matter of violence and cruelty we must all be clearly placed, without 'yes, but'. Violence cannot be justified because someone may have realised that his team is being wronged or may indeed be wronged or there are dark sides in a football match. Violence is something that is fuelled by this whole situation and we must all see here that as long as it is growing, it makes it difficult to clear and transparent in sport. I would like to mention two issues which I consider to be important. We've got the illegal bet in front of us. It is an issue that the government has raised in the institutions of the European Union and in the Council of Ministers, because it is an issue that goes beyond the country's borders, it is a global problem, and if there is no coordination at all levels, international and national, then it will not be controlled and fought but, in principle, controlled. The second thing I want to say to you is that these days are also being implemented at the level of consultation a proposal of many football players, groups of the First National Class, to re-enter professional football on a new basis. The Government considers this initiative to be absolutely positive reflects the anguish of these soccer people. We believe that the proposal that has already been made public is a reasonable proposal and a basis for discussion. On the subject that has arisen in recent days, the government has said from the outset - and emphasises it - that in matters of public security and social peace no one can dictate to it policies. We have, however, stressed that if serious action is taken to ensure public order and social peace, we can see again, after a decision has been taken by the Council of State, the question of the organisation of the cup. We mentioned this clearly in the FIFA and UEFA delegation, which had come to visit us. However, we have stressed that the first and most important thing to be done is to harmonise the statutes of the NRA with those of the international federations and that the Ethics Committee on Ethics should be seized immediately by all those actors, who are currently being persecuted to a degree of crime and nobody has touched them, because that is what I am saying - that is, that nobody should touch them - by the Rules of Procedure of the Ethics Committee. They've been put to shame. So these things that I'm describing now, we're asking for. I think we should find supporters from the international federations and not people swinging our fingers. I would say - because we have to give the truth to every issue that arises - that they are beginning to understand the problem that exists in Greece. They're beginning to realize it. I hope that they will realise it to the end and understand that the efforts made by the Greek Government are attempts to restore the credibility of football and peace in an area that is watched by thousands of Greek citizens and especially young people, and we have the ultimate and main responsibility here. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Minister. It will now be discussed the first with number 736/4-2016 topical question by MP Boeotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Thevaios to the Minister of Finance on the arrangement for unreserved rents. Mr. Thebes, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is true that during this period when tax declarations are submitted for 2015, a problem arises objectively for many property renters. It is known that despite many leasers it is not possible, because of an economic crisis or other factors, to pay their rents, rents, as a whole or part of them. However, the taxation of rent income is specific, and the lessor, when not collected, should be assigned to the DU - by a claim, of course - in order not to tax unreasonable rents. Today, the continued abstention of lawyers for more than two and a half months creates objectively a problem. It takes thousands of leasers to protect themselves from the way they will be taxed - and they will be taxed unfairly - and therefore you are asking what measures we can take on this issue that is unfair today, since the time for tax returns is running and the time periods are too short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, in your question you raise a real issue, but you can be sure that we will give a solution. As we have given a solution to the matter of undeclared rents, we will also be giving a solution to this issue. We have given a solution to the issue of undeclared rents, despite the catastrophic descriptions at the time from some of Parliament's wings and from some media that the government will tax incomes that are not there, i.e. unreasonable rents. We have given a solution that provided that, until the time the annual statement of taxation was made, a payment order or a payment order has been issued against the lessee or a payment order for the use of a salary or an expulsion order or an action for the payment of a rent or for the payment of a rent will not have any tax obligation on the person who owns the property and rents it and has not received any rent or for the amount which he has not collected. Unfortunately, however, this planning we had failed to go ahead because the abstention of lawyers has emerged. However, this issue is something that concerns us. We'll give it a solution. The solutions we are considering at the moment are certainly to extend the deadlines for these cases until the abstention of lawyers has been resolved, which we hope will be resolved immediately. If we find that this solution is not working, we will see how they can declare their unrealistic rents without taxing them. In any case, the Ministry of Finance is planning and will be adopting the relevant decision today or tomorrow. Allow me here to open a parable and say, Mr President, that I would have adopted this decision. But I was told to be here at 11:30 and it's 13:30 and I'm going to have to go back to the Ministry and at 18:00 to be in the House again for another obligation. With this decision, then, all the tax obligations will go with regard to the income tax statement at the end of June. So until then they will be able to make their statement. And this issue will be dealt with either by extending these cases until these procedures begin after the abstention expires or by not having to do so, but by dealing with the problem in another way. You can be sure that the problem will be dealt with. It's in what we know and we're going to give it a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u317	Before I give you the floor, my colleague, I would like to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-five students and students and five educational attendants from the 56th Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Dear children, I would like to inform you that now that you have come you are following the end of parliamentary control. This is a special procedure, which does not involve Parliament's plenary, but concerns Members who, one by one, ask and take the relevant answer from the Minister. Before you came, there were thirteen other questions with corresponding MPs, which were answered by ministers. Now you are following the last question procedure. I would like to inform you, so that you do not stay with the question, why the House is sitting only with the presence of the President, a minister and a Member of Parliament? Things are quite better than what you see now. Be well, boys! Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. So waiting, Minister, for the relevant arrangements. At this stage we can say that we are covered, in the sense that very soon there will be communications on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u319	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been distributed the minutes of the sittings of Friday 29 January 2016, Thursday 4 February 2016 and Monday 8 February 2016 and the House is asking if it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u320	The minutes of Friday 29 January 2016, Thursday 4 February 2016 and Monday 8 February 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that we are adjourned?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u321	With the consent of the House at 13.35 minutes the sitting is suspended for this afternoon at 18.00 a.m., on the subject of the legislative work of the House, in accordance with the agenda which has been distributed to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u322	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: "Following the Air Services Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of New Zealand". Let me inform the House that, as rapporteurs, Mr Apostle Karamanlis has been declared by SYRIZA and by New Democracy Mr Constantine Karamanlis. As special speakers, from the Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotaros, from the Democratic Complex, from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Stavros Tassos, from Potamis, Mrs.Akaterini Markos, from the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides and from the Centron Association Mr. Anastasios Megalamoustakas have been declared as special speakers. Let me also inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the bill was passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, those who object to the ratification of this Agreement may take the floor. Recall the parties' positions in committee: SYRIZA was in favour of New Democracy in favour of Golden Dawn without reservation, the Democratic Integration in favour of the JRC, the Potami in favour, the Independent Greeks in favour, the Centron Association in favour. Therefore, if we were to discuss only the agreement, the Golden Dawn and the JRC would have to speak. We are, however, aware - and you are already aware - that three ministerial amendments have been tabled: the amendment with a general number of 306 and a number 4, the amendment with a general number of 309; and the amendment with a general number of 310 and a special number of 8, to which the rapporteurs and the special speakers can be placed for five minutes each. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u323	Let us start with ratification first, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u324	Wait a minute. There are two procedures: one is to start and conclude the agreement and then move on to the amendments, and another procedure is for the rapporteurs, the special speaker for five minutes, with a comfortable time, and for the agreement and for the amendments. I hear the opinions. Mr. Tassos wanted to say something and Mr. Brutsi later. Here you go, Mr. Tassos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u325	Let's go with the regular process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u326	Mr Tassos proposes the normal procedure, that is, the agreement first and then the other. Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, with all due respect to the Bureau, I would like to make a comment. I do not want to act relentlessly, that is to say, in the logic that a number of amendments are coming again. We have learned that now. We're against it, but you're legislating. We want, Mr President, in the process and before it evolves, to listen to the government's mouth - by the ministers - what formal amendments is being put forward and what is being accepted and what is being proposed by the Members and what is being done to ensure that there is a document. This is necessary for the democratic dialogue that we want to have, so that it is both essential and essential for us to know. That is what we demand from the Bureau and from the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u328	I think what you say, Mr Brutsi, is perfectly reasonable. It is simply because there is a request from Mr Tassos that we go first. I mean, maybe we'll finish the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u329	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u330	Here you go, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u331	Mr President, we believe that it is very clear that what Mr Brutsi said, namely to hear about what amendments we are going to be discussing, to start the debate on sanctions, so that by the usual procedure we can conclude and then put down for the amendments separately. And I would say that the parliamentary representatives too can be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor. You want to say something else?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u333	Apart from this, which is exactly what the debate must take place, namely ratification and then amendments, the debate on the amendments, because it is a procedure that we are following here outside the Rules of Procedure, that, apart from the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives, they should be placed at the respective time and those who wish to do so. That must be the procedure in the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u334	Good. We'll see it along the way. We'll see. I have no objections. Let's move on. From the Golden Dawn, Mr. Panagiotaros will take the floor to place himself on the ratification of the contract. We can hear you, Mr. Panayotar.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it is worth recalling the signature of the colonial concession of the fourteen regional airports, as well as the great inconvenience caused by the inhabitants of the outermost regions, regarding the execution of the services of the barren lines, which expired on 31 March, bringing the status quo to an end without a competition for six months. It is something that the government must solve immediately, for the benefit of Greek citizens, who live in the remote areas of our country. From there on, for this bill, it is another ratification of an agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of New Zealand on air services. Reading that sentence, one doesn't see anything wrong with it. It is a good thing, because it is a country in which there is also a Greek population. It is more than five and a half thousand Greeks in New Zealand, a figure growing in recent years with the crisis in our homeland, because the Greeks are resorting to all the lengths and backs of the earth now lawfully in order to find work. However, we have the absurdity here, and while this agreement has been positive, Greece has long closed the Greek Embassy in New Zealand and any handling of the Greeks who live there and those who are interested and will be interested in the future through these airline connections to come to Greece through the Greek Consulate in Cameroon, Australia. It is something that we consider to be absurd. It is like we are selling out airports, like you, Minister, that is what you said before and with deep regret you signed the concession of the regional airports. Objections are too many. More and more evidence is made public, which demonstrates that this agreement is completely not beneficial to the Greek Government. On the other hand, you say that we will make an air link, but, of course, in the articles of this agreement, there are many articles, which are generally and vaguely and do not know whether they will in the end be for the benefit of Greece or for the benefit of a private person. In this agreement, the Golden Dawn will vote 'PAY' and for the amendments we will be voting on later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr. Panayotare. Mr Stavros Tassos from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. As we said in committee, the bill to be voted on in the Greek Parliament for ratification of the air services agreement between the Government of New Zealand and the Greek Government, as well as with other countries, which will be discussed in the next few days, Israel, Moldova, Jordan and Georgia, has the booby of the European Union, with a view to maximising the profitability of Euro-Union business groups, which are active in the field of air transport. With the relevant bill, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government promotes the European Union's anti-linguistic and anti-legislative framework in the field of air transport, which defines the relations between Member States and third countries. This agreement serves to promote the single European sky to ensure better conditions for industry monopolies. The agreement, like the European Union's policy pact, will bring no benefit to the people. On the contrary, it will help to make air transport even more difficult and expensive for workers. The bill includes provocative tax exemptions and relief from customs duties to the selected airlines from both parties. With the exemption of the selected companies from duties and charges on aircraft, spare parts, fuels and other when carrying out the agreed routes, there is a reduction in the revenues of the State budget, which will be covered by the further tax on people's income. It is an agreement to support the profitability and growth of the large capital, which in turn contributes to its further concentration and concentration. It will bring about changes to the worst in labour relations and working conditions and a limitation of the individual country's competences, even in matters of airspace management and control. These agreements promote the creation of common air traffic zones and their central control by European mechanisms. The JRC is voting against the relevant draft law of ratification of the air services agreement between Greece and New Zealand. Once again, the JRC's position on the need to release from the European Union by unilateral deletion of debt and labour power, by socialisation of monopolies and by centralised planning to meet popular needs is confirmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u338	Thank you Mr Stavros Tassos from the Communist Party of Greece. I will give the floor for a moment to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Tryphoda Alexiades, to support the amendment under number 309 and number 7, and then Minister Spirtz will speak in the spirit that Mr Brutsis spoke earlier, namely to say what he accepts and what he says. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u339	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are tabling an amendment, number 309/7, allowing the Bank of Greece to establish a special account for refugee aid. The special account shall be managed, by way of derogation from all applicable provisions. In other words, it is an amendment that we are tabling, so that we can open up the account for what we have announced and be able to raise money there and manage it immediately for the needs of the refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, I would like to say something about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u342	Don't put us on now. We said we'd be placed later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u343	Yeah, but who's gonna answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u344	We can't do that now. Mr. Spirtzis will speak. Mr. Minister will be staying. The Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr. Spirtzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the ratification to say that today's debate in plenary on the ratification of the bilateral air agreement between Greece and New Zealand, as well as the next four sanctions that were discussed today in the committees of this House, are a crucial part of our national aviation strategy. These agreements strengthen the country's position in the wider region, extend the horizons to passenger and freight transport, create development conditions in the tourism transport sector and thus have a positive impact on the economy. Let me give you the facts which have led us to sign the agreement with New Zealand, the ratification of which is necessary for the interests of our country. On 18 November 2014 bilateral air negotiations were conducted between counterparts of our country and New Zealand at the Conference of the International Civil Aviation Organisation on the conduct of multiple bilateral air negotiations in Bali, Indonesia. The negotiations were conducted at the initiative of New Zealand, which expressed interest in concluding a bilateral air agreement with our country. We responded positively to this proposal, since there had been no bilateral air agreement between the two countries so far. New Zealand follows a fully liberal aviation policy, and the text proposed by the draft bilateral air agreement was a text of an open skies agreement. For our part, we were unable to accept the conclusion of an agreement on open skies with the country and therefore the proposed plan was used as a basis for negotiation in Greece. I believe that in the negotiation that has been achieved the training and initialling of a modern and fully compatible with Community law on a bilateral air service contract, as well as the signing of a memorandum of understanding by the heads of the two delegations, have been achieved. In the Memorandum of Understanding, signed during the negotiation, inter alia: The number of off-balanced weekly frequencies, which is fourteen, without restriction on the type of aircraft used, an unlimited number of freight routes between the two countries, provided for the possibility of authorising extra-contractual services, provisional application of the schedule of routes, as well as for the provision of use of a common code between the appointed airlines of the two sides, but also with third country airlines, in order to allow interested companies on either side to initiate routes or to enter into commercial partnerships, until the ratification and entry into force of the Agreement, the mutual exemption of air carriers from customs duties and associated taxes, the right to take over rights, i.e. air traffic from our airspace of New Zealand air carriers, which are directed to third destinations, which entails revenues for airports and the Greek State, the right to park the other part of the air transport and to land the other Contracting Party in the Annex to the Agreement, as well as set out in the Annex to the Agreement for air transport and navigation services. In conclusion, we consider that ratification of this agreement is beneficial to the Greek economy and related to the aviation sector and to economic activities. But much more, we are implementing a strategic plan in the country, which shows it as a freight hub, which is one of the key tools for the country's productive reconstruction, for the stability of the wider region and for our international recognition. I would like to state on the occasion, Mr President, a legislative improvement to the draft law entitled 'Following the Air Services Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of New Zealand'. The title of the draft law after the words ‘New Zealand’ shall be added ‘and other provisions’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u346	I would also like to say that three ministerial amendments are accepted. The first is Amendment No 310, and a special 8 of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, which I will then develop. The second is Amendment No 309 and Special 7 of the Ministry of Finance, the third is Amendment No 306 and the Ministry of Education number 4, as well as the parliamentary amendments with a general number of 304 and a special number of 2 and a general number of 308 and a special number of 6. There is a need for the Transport Ministry's amendment, which is why we do not put it in another ordinary bill, and we put it in ratification. The previous governments provided for the inclusion of the ‘COMMUNICATION’ in the ‘CITIZENS OF INFRASTRUCTURE’. This merger took place. However, what had not been foreseen was to transfer the resources from the FIFG to the ‘CITIZENS’ for works in progress, for the immediate needs of the building infrastructure related to the Ministry of Justice and the prisons of the country, and a part of the real estate of the ‘THESERVICE’, which was also not provided for in the merger. This has brought the buildings and infrastructures of the country's courts and prisons to a dead end in many cases, and that is why we are tabling it, so that both the projects under way can be covered and implemented, and that the Ministry of Justice can assign and fund the construction infrastructure through the FIFG. Mr Alexiadis has developed the other amendment, and then Mr. Friends will come to support the Ministry of Education as well. If you want, let me say a few words: it is about the movements of students participating in the pan-Hellenic exams. I therefore believe that it is a social necessity to present it so that in time we know how to make the necessary planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u347	From the parliamentary amendments, what did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u348	Of the Members of Parliament, it is the amendment with a general number of 304 and an amendment with a general number of 308. Do you want me to develop them or the Members who have submitted them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u349	No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u350	The one Parliamentary amendment, which is accepted, relates to the excise duty on natural gas, its use by industries or craft industries and provides for a joint Ministerial Decision by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Environment and Energy in order to determine the specific conditions, conditions, procedures, controls and any other details necessary for exemption from the excise duty on natural gas, in accordance with this case. And secondly, it has to do with a request from a respective trade union body to harmonise the law of employee representation in PPC with the law applicable to all other public limited companies. There was only for PPC - as I read - the restriction that employees' representative can be elected only one term, and in the proposed provision, the law should apply as it applies to all other public companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr. Spirtzi. We are now entering the rapporteurs. Mr. Apostle Karastasis has the floor. Mr. Karastasis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 28/5/2015 the Air Services Exchange Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of New Zealand was signed in Leipzig. Today, with the bill under discussion, it is proposed that this agreement be ratified by the Greek Parliament. The purpose of the Agreement and, as a consequence of this draft law, is to regulate, in a consistent manner and in the context of international treaties and regulations, matters relating to cooperation between the two countries in the field of air transport. The central theme of the Agreement is the establishment and operation of scheduled air services between the respective territories of the two countries, which wish to promote a system of international air services...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u353	Mr Karastasis, I am sorry to interrupt, but the rapporteurs at this stage, like the special speakers, will only speak of the amendments because SYRIZA was in favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u354	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u355	With reservation was the Golden Dawn and during the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u356	They're introductory. I am therefore referring to the amendments that have been mentioned, which are for the Special Relief Account for the needs of refugees, as well as the costs of traveling pupils for the Pan-Hellenic Examinations, which we consider to be a very important issue for the smooth functioning of the Examination Centres and the students, so that they can have a smooth access to the Examination Centres. From there on, I think it is very important that the request for representation which exists with regard to workers in an institution, such as PPC in the Board of Directors, is very important. It was a one-sided one that could not be more than a term of office in the board. I think that this proposal is about to set up and rationalise this system. From that point on, I think that the Minister rightly referred to the TAFO for unification, which was done with building infrastructure. I believe that the situation will be a little normalised, because, as we know, there have been delays in operating, involving either building facilities in the Ministry of Justice or the issue of the courts, as well as issues that were under way and that the money had to be used, which was very important. I therefore believe that these six amendments and the three ministerial and parliamentary amendments must be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr. Karanastasis. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Kostantinos Karamanlis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u358	Mr. Brutsi will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u359	Good. Mr Brutsis, in the same spirit, has the floor for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u360	Not just, Mr. President. I think in their spirit...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u361	I interrupted Mr. Karastasis, and she was a little inappropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u362	I'm sorry, I'm a parliamentary representative. It's not the same. The rapporteur can be placed, but the spirit of Parliament's operation is that everyone is supposed to be in the context of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u363	Yeah, but if that's what you're saying now, we need to talk in the order of the rapporteurs, not you. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u364	Obviously. The rapporteurs should speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u365	Good. The rapporteurs should speak and then if we want the Members to speak. Mr Kostantinos Karamanlis has the floor on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u366	On the amendments, Mr President, I will only turn to the amendment that has to do with the establishment of a Special Account with the Bank of Greece and to which our Parliamentary representative, Mr Brutsis, will be referred later. Unfortunately, however, I see that Mr Alexiadis is gone. First of all, I think we are all in favour of establishing the Fund. The only problem that we see in the article is that when you talk about the management of the Special Account, you say: 'it is done by way of derogation from the applicable public accounting, public procurement and public investment provisions.' I think the Minister should explain why this provision has been passed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr Karamanlis. Mr Panayotaros, a special speaker from the Golden Dawn on the amendments, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. For Amendment No 309, on the establishment of a Special Account, I shall refer to the end. On Amendment No 306, on the issue of student mobility, we agree. On Amendment No 310, on the regulation of the operation of the label of the company 'CITIZENS S.A.', we say'residents'. For Parliamentary Amendment No 304 on the abolition of paragraph 4 of Article 43 on the appointment of representatives of workers in the administration of the ECO, we say 'no'. In Amendment No 308, 'Exemption from excise duty on natural gas as raw material from industries or crafts', we will say'residents'. It is a good amendment, but you are constantly bringing in new taxes. At the same time, farmers are squeezing in with the measures you have taken and you have equated the oil of the farmers with the oil of those who use it for anything else. I guess they think there's some sort of feasibility. However, we in this amendment will say 'the present'. As far as Amendment No 309 is concerned, we are not all in agreement, as Mr Karamanlis said. We are voting against, we disagree. We believe that this special account is to be set up by way of derogation from the provisions in force. If the Greeks deviate, the damocles of the Ministry, led by Alexiadis, as well as other relevant ministries, will fall. Greeks who cannot breathe can't see everything at their expense for the benefit of illegal immigrants and the few refugees. We see that, day after day, racism against the Greeks has no precedent. From the free care, which illegal immigrants and refugees can legally have without any superior or asterisk, when Greeks have to meet a number of conditions in order to have free care. From the impunity, where we saw last night's incident with an Afghan, who was holding a newborn baby and was about to throw it, and you said that this illegal immigrants from Afghanistan would not be expelled so that problems would not arise. Once they close national and other roads, as they take place at the National Road of Evzoon and Thessaloniki, in Polykastro, side streets where they make their checks on Greek citizens. They were asking - we saw on the TVs - passports and identities to see where they are and where they go. From the fact that he was artificially advertised and promoted a few days ago, in the parade of March 25, a young student with a handkerchief. Imagine what would happen in her country if a Christian student did not wear a handkerchief. From the fact that since the new year they will be able to enter kindergartens, kindergartens, schools and even universities without examinations, without any examinations, refugees, illegal immigrants, immigrants, all, when Greek citizens are paying for a sack of money, to study their children in schools and elsewhere, and many, even though they go to universities, can't go, because they no longer have the financial potential. Imagine - listen - there's been a proposal. In a debate a few days ago in the Region of Western Greece, refugees, illegal immigrants, have been told about mobility problems, treated in various rehabilitation centres. For those who know, in order for a Greek citizen to go to a rehabilitation centre if he has a problem, he should kiss pee aprons, because there are no places for anyone. And you even want this, to the illegal immigrants, to the refugees, to all those who come home to do everything for free. [[Noise in the Chamber]] A little quiet, Mr President, to be able to speak. So it is not possible to bring in this amendment. And if we were to accept that it is good, we would like to remind you of what happened with the special firefighting bill, where hundreds of millions of euros were collected and lost on the way. It's certain that, even if some of the good heart, of love, of mercy, of anything else they put money, this money won't go to their final destination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u369	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and two teachers and two teachers from the 6th Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Nikolaos Friends, is here to develop the amendment if he wants to say anything more than Mr. Spirtzis said. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment is necessary because this year the nature of the examinations has changed. Examinations carried out on admission to higher education this year are no longer a full-time examination. Therefore, we need to clarify what we have in the amendment in order to facilitate the transition of children to places that are away from their homes, in order to facilitate their own and also to accompany them from their relatives, which are necessary when giving examinations. The most detailed arrangements for this arrangement will be laid down in the Ministerial Decision to be adopted by a delegated decision of the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Minister for Research and Religious Education. We continue with the special speaker of the Democratic Partnership, Mr. Jelloney. Mr Jelloney, you have the floor to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u372	As far as the amendments are concerned, Mr President, I would like to say that once again the government shows us how complex it is to legislate, to put the amendments back in unrelated bills and, in particular, to a ratification today. We will not disagree with Nos 310, 306, 308 and 309. I would, however, particularly like to see the amendment under number 309, which deals with opening up an account to the Bank of Greece for the help of refugees and with which we agree, highlighting how roughly, as I said, the government is legislating when only six days ago a bill was passed on. The delay in Amendment No 304, which the Minister accepts, is the one that lifts the restriction of the election of workers' representatives in a single term which has so far been on the PPC Board of Directors. I would like to ask Mr Spirtzi whether this is about Mr Fotopoulou or not. I would also like to stress that you are now withdrawing the terms when tomorrow we have a bill on cooperatives, where the terms of which you have a 'good news'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor in the seat of Mr. Tassos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u374	Mr President, on the amendments I shall be speaking as a parliamentary representative, because Mr Tassos should be absent from the Chamber because of an exceptional incident. In particular, with regard to the amendments, with regard to Amendment No 306, which the Minister for Education has just supported, to cover the costs of the children who are to be tested in Greece, we agree that this need to be met, and whatever other costs are needed, for children to take part in the examinations. With regard to the Ministerial Amendment No 309, on the special account, we will vote against it because we have voted against the recent law on refugee and, of course, if you will, by putting this dimension in place, as the Minister for Finance has said in the media, will define the institutions, the management and the functioning of this account. As far as the Ministerial Amendment No 310 is concerned, we will vote against it because we had voted against both the merger and the creation of this anonymous company. We agree with Parliamentary Amendment No 304, which concerns the end of one term, namely an increase in the term of office of workers' representatives. Besides, that used to be the case before. We will vote in favour of it by simply putting a dimension - and we may have to see it at some point - that with the previous regulation that had reduced the term of office of representatives in one term - which is now changing with this amendment - the number of workers' representatives had decreased from three to two now. I think that this is also an issue that the relevant ministry and the government need to see. In conclusion, I would like to end by congratulating the Parliamentary Amendment No 308, which deals with the proposal for exemption from excise duty on the gas of certain companies using it for these reasons, except for energy production. I think it is - the least I can say - hypocrisy, intimidation, at the same time that our people are stumbling at their income, their lives from politicians and from the previous governments and from them. Especially on the energy side, there are families and homes with no current or no power to pay, and you come with one amendment and give the possibility of reducing or abolishing the excise duty on natural gas. So we will vote against it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. From the river it was Mrs Marcos to take the floor, but Mr Amyras will be placed. We are listening to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister and Madam Minister, we object to the process of the many late, unrelated amendments which go into a ratification of an international convention. In other words, we have a number of amendments. We have had the New Zealand import lamb now we have New Zealand amendments or through New Zealand. However, Minister, I will tell you every one of us how we sit. We shall be saying'representatives' for Amendment No 306. We expect an integrated, in-depth regulation of these issues in the draft education and research legislation that we are waiting for. In relation to Amendment No 309, which relates to the account for the refugee problem, we have a positive position. However, we are kept at a distance by the derogation from the existing arrangements to be followed. This is where we want more clarification. As soon as the day before yesterday we voted on the draft law that was supposed to put down the organisation of the refugee issue, the administrative machinery, organisational and economics? Why was such an arrangement not anticipated at that time? We would like an answer to that, if you have it. On Amendment No 310, which concerns building infrastructure, and here we will say 'no' to you, because we consider this amendment to be a little hasty. In other words, we also want to have an account of how the coexistence, the combination of the companies that led to the "CITIZENS S.A.". And now we are going to the other two parliamentary amendments. The first is for the stay or not for the second term of membership of the General Assembly. This is where we think it's photographic. Clearly it concerns Mr Fotopoulou and Mr Karaleitheri, perhaps. I'm not sure about the second one. We have another kind of provision to give you, another kind of arrangement. If you accept it, bring it into line with the provision of Article 7(6)(c) of Law 4342/2015 on the ERT, ladies and gentlemen, then that the appointment of a board member, as regards ERT SA, is incompatible with the membership of the board of directors in trade unions and workers' associations. Why would we have different measures and standards against ERT rather than vice versa? We are going to say 'no' here. We are unequivocally negative. Finally, for Amendment No 308, I would like to remind my dear colleagues that, in June 2015, Mrs Valavan had tabled such an amendment, which had been withdrawn. And there in the explanatory statement it was stated that the assessment of the financial costs of this tax exemption - because it is, in fact, a tax exemption - amounts to EUR 25 million. Is that true today? Has something changed? We consider, of course, positive - and we will be voting positively on this amendment, we will vote 'yes' - that an industry, in essence, 'ELPHE ABEE', to speak with names, in Northern Greece, is in difficulty in the work of exports, because gas is the raw material for the production of ammonia nitrate, by 90%, and we therefore consider it important. However, Minister, we want to have a broader debate, we want a broader energy planning for how such arrangements can be extended to other parts of the economy, production and, above all, the export sector. That is what we need, and I hope you will give me the floor for clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u377	Thank you. Mr. Lazarides of the Independent Greeks has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. As I have seen from the amendments, I am in agreement with both the question of the transfer of pupils and what it is about to do with the Organization for School Buildings, etc. Where I would like some clarification is in Amendment No 304. In the rest, I do not find any reason to support the other amendments, but here I would like some further clarification, because I too really have a question about this. As far as the establishment of this special refugee account is concerned, I cannot oppose it. I don't want anything more to say. I would just like some clarifications more about the amendment No 304 on PPC for the election of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr Anastassios Megalamustakas from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u380	As regards Amendment No 306 introduced by the Ministry of Education, we will vote for it, yes, because it concerns a very important subject which does not leave any further discussion. We simply believe that there should be better planning to come to the education bill, so that we can understand that once again we do not suffer from sloppyness. We shall vote'residents' in Amendment No 308 on natural gas. We consider this move positive, there is simply a lack of information. In other words, we should know what the amounts are, what the course to be followed and what the reasons are. The explanatory statement is a very incomplete one, which is why we are voting 'at present'. We are also voting 'at present' in Amendment No 309. We cannot deny that it is in the positive direction of becoming a special account for refugees, but there is still no proper information. It is not possible for this matter to come in the form of an amendment today, when we passed a bill last week.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u381	Ninety articles!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u382	Exactly, ninety articles. We will vote 'no' on the amendment, with number 304 on PPC, and we see that this is done with a certain purpose, rather than with a view to continuing the course of specific individuals. We see that it has a party and a centralist character. We will vote 'no' on Amendment No 310, as we do not see anything positive about that. Further analysis will also be provided by our Parliamentary representative, who is legal and is aware of the level of the issues relating to the FAO and the 'CITIAN SUBCOMMITTEE'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr Megloumustakas, special speaker of the Centroon Association. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy for this agreement has a positive attitude. We criticised all the amendments which you once again anti-ethics bring in the process of unrelated legislative procedures. But you will allow me, Mr President, to make a few remarks, which I consider to be particularly important. And I do now, in a bill where you can reasonably say that it is not about what I say about the bill, but, unfortunately, the House does not have any legislative work. Therefore, because this House must hear things the way they are and because the topical and political developments are running fast, you will allow me to tell you that the latest events, all that have happened, from WIKILEAKS to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, to the issues of evaluation, which are pending, have shaped a very negative climate for our country. Greece's image is tragic. Unfortunately, you have turned it into a third-world country, a country that is currently with closed borders, with closed banks, with tens of thousands of refugees and migrants within it, and shows an unregulated ship. The government is absent, hesitates to make decisions and we arrive, Mr Ministers of the Government, at the tragic point - and it is important that you see a little internet and it is important that you are informed - to see Greek citizens, Greek taxpayers, who are trying to cross the national roads and stop them and ask them for identities. Immigrants request identities from our Greek fellow citizens to give them the right to pass! How do you accept that? And that is not all, Mr President. It is also a series of other issues, which are also very important and are today revealed. And they are revealed at a time critical to our country. I have in my hands a record of statements by two leading European players. First of all, Mr Draghi, President of the European Central Bank, who, in his statement today, clearly states that capital controls in Greece were carried out due to the uncertainty of the economy that existed in the first half of 2016 and the government failures. This is what the European banker says for the first time in an interview so clearly. It's good to see it inside SYRIZA and stop this viticulture about others' responsibilities. It's your responsibility! From your own grasp and political failures the banks have closed down so that all this has an impact on the daily life of the citizens, on the Greek taxpayer's pocket, the 5.4 billion you are discussing bringing to the Greek people! I am tabling the statements made by the banker of the European Central Bank, Mr Draghi. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, with yesterday's statements - and this is a historical document - Mr Dombrovski, the Vice-President of the European Commission, says, Mr President, that Greece at the end of 2014 was coming out of the memorandum. There were only a few marginal, parametric changes that were not completed because of SYRIZA. And since SYRIZA took over the government, the policy has changed on its own responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u385	Please, ladies and gentlemen, a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u386	I read the text, which is revealing. He says, therefore, that: "After the new government's ascension to the leadership of Greece, the growth of Greece was undermined, unemployment increased, and furthermore, growth that was planned 2.5% in 2015, has now taken a negative sign". I am tabling this in the Minutes of the House because these are very important texts, ladies and gentlemen, which the Greek people deserve to see, especially when you see them. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I now come to today, Mr President. And let me tell you that we have moments of tragedy in Parliament as well. Look, the New Democracy has been clearly placed. He has said it several times that transparency in the functioning of parliamentaryism is a number one in the hierarchy and in the priorities that we set ourselves. How did you turn Parliament? In a laundry, Mr. Ministers? A while ago, in the name of immigration policy, you requested authorisation from Parliament to give direct assignments. And the results are well known. SYRIZA Members - in honor of them - have asked questions about where the money went, because they have not been purchased by companies, as Mr Vitsas had promised here in the House, that local businesses will be exploited, and were given by direct commissions, Mr President, by the Greek people - perhaps European funds - to companies that appeared in one night. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Such complaints have also been made. We expect the answers, which have not existed until now. Moreover, what comes today, additional - and I wonder how you will accept it and how you will vote - is this: You ask for a special account to be made to the Bank of Greece. Welcome, people for refugees. Greek government, European resources and any natural or legal person who wants to participate in the special account will go to the special account. Of course, welcome. But what are you doing? You're doing something inconceivable. This has no precedent in parliament. Or rather it has, for your day, what happened a while ago with the Department of National Defence. I read: ‘The special account is managed by way of derogation from the applicable provisions on public accounting, public procurement, public investment, study award, procurement and any other general or special provision’. I mean, in the government's pocket, the money and they do it and they handle it the way they want it. How are you going to vote for this? How will you vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u387	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u388	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we are not voting for it, Mr President. I think that the debate now focuses on this provision, which is a trick, is the definition of opaqueness and shames Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u389	We too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor. Then Mr. Carras will also speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue is mentioned every time a sanction comes. I would like to stress, however, that something needs to be done. We are discussing the ratification of a convention, three ministerial amendments are coming, legislative, delayed and within very few minutes, without a debate being possible, without being able to open up a list of speakers to the essence, we are being called upon to look at these issues critical, many of which are by way of derogation provisions, and so on. I don't think we can go on like this. We need to decide here that in any case we will not legislate manually. I specifically come to Amendment No 309, which says that by way of derogation from the applicable provisions on public accounting, public procurement, public investment, the award of studies and procurement, we are going to proceed with this process. A few days ago the Prime Minister had come and talked about the "interventions" earlier. And we see by way of derogation, in the next few days, that such amendments should come to the Greek Parliament. Transparency is seen in the way we legislate and in what we put into every amendment and what we bring. Because it is not only about the Minister in question, of course, when we legislate. According to the explanatory statement, therefore, this account will be an instrument to deal with the humanitarian crisis, as funds will be deposited to it by natural and legal persons, as well as the allocation of European Union financial instruments. Once again, despite the fact that we may have needed this regulation at some point to look at it and be in the right direction, it comes to legislating on a ratification of an agreement, six days later - and Mr Jellélez said so on behalf of the Democratic Independence - the debate on the refugee question. So we are now discussing the refugee bill, while we voted a few days ago on a whole bill. I would therefore like to point out - and that is why I would like him to be the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Alexiadis, not because I wanted him to remain in the whole process for another reason - that he was raped, ladies and gentlemen, to issue the ministerial decision to set up a special refugee aid account. This Decision is addressed to the Ministerial Decision 520/2-3-2016. So, first, it took the ministerial decision - on 2 March - to set up a special refugee relief account. The movement and any other procedure and detail shall be determined by the ministerial decisions. It therefore made a ministerial decision on 2 March and we come today with an amendment to pass it on and legislate to bring a new ministerial decision, then, after the amendment. No sloppy! No double jobs! No cuffs! I table the ministerial decision on this issue in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned Ministerial Decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The next item is, of course, the parliamentary amendment, which has been accepted. Firstly, this amendment is a delay. And I am talking about a process that is done as it is and is a late amendment. I'm talking about PPC. The second point is that you say in fact that there was a limitation on PPC's Board of Directors, that it should govern a reduction in the election of employees' representatives in a single term. We have asked you and we ask you again: is this the case of Mr Fotopoulou? You were asked at the moment by the Democratic Integration, the Potami and your partner, who has reservations about this fact. Members of the SYRIZA, are now alone in defending Mr Fotopoulou's amendment to the Council, if that is the case, because you have not answered so far. With transparency, and with these issues we cannot play. I would ask that there be answers to both questions. I have dealt with two specific issues which concern specific problems in our country, refugees and migrants, who want a serious approach, because we see every day that control is lost. The state is from Piraeus, from Idomeni. It's from all the procedures on the islands. The state to be present doesn't mean tear gas. It means that there can be simple control on simple issues. On the subject of refugees, therefore, additional amendments are being tabled today. We cannot continue this way. They need answers and they need seriousness before efficacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u391	Thank you to Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence. Parliamentary spokesman from the Centroon Union, Mr Karras, has the floor now. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, thank you. Will you allow me to give this House a pleasant news? Today, Hungary received the 20 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund in 2008. What do we do? That's my question. What are we doing? We are bringing drafts that we are completing at the last moment in the ratification of conventions and other provisions, and we are constantly attempting to settle - arrangements. On the amendments, so that I am not tiring up because a lot has been said. The amendment on the FIFG, which was transformed into a public enterprise 'creative infrastructure', cannot be voted on. It is such that the pathology of the TAXIK is such that the history of the TAXIK, of the company "THE ISSUE". Remind me of the rhetoric that had been placed at the Athens Court of Appeal and charged with fatal fees. No, this is not going to continue. Much has been said by my colleagues on the matter of the term of office of PPC members. I'll say something else to be brief. This amendment cannot be tabled by Mr Spirtzi. The government doesn't even know how to legislate. It is intervention in the administration of an anonymous company and should now come in the process of companies by the Minister of Justice. So neither can we vote for the principle, Mr President. The amendment on excise duty on natural gas sounds good to me. I have reservations, however, and we shall vote 'the present'. Why? Because I expected a report on what the tax paid - if it did - on what the abolition of the tax would yield to the national economy. There is a parliamentary amendment to cover obviously the government's weaknesses which cannot answer these questions. We're waiting to hear. We didn't hear it or hear it. What did the tax yield to this day? What impact did it have on the operation of operations? What will we expect from the growth in business turnover? And you want me to say something else, Mr President? We also have great equivalent measures. So should we now, tomorrow, after this amendment, impose a new tax on the Greeks, why should we replace with the requirements of the lenders that we are abolishing? We cannot vote for it positively. We shall say 'the present'. On the subject of refugees: we have indeed been concerned about it. I was also a parliamentary representative and rapporteur last week at the Public Administration Committee. We are tired, we have contributed, we have all been afflicted in recognising the humanitarian dimension of this issue. I am one of those who may be of the first, Mr President - and I think it is an honour - to say it in the Chamber and in the media that, since there are people who are either called refugees, illegal immigrants or as you say, we recognise them that we must protect them and accept them in Greece as long as there is no possibility of being treated in any other way and moving to the countries they want. But what's coming now? There is an amendment to an airline agreement, and it tells us to forget everything, to forget about public accounting, to forget about procurement procedures, procurement procedures, to help refugees. Yeah, we can help them. But we must help them in the legislative and moral, if you like, framework, which must distinguish Greece. Why am I saying this - and I shall end - Mr President? For one reason alone: we do not know what input this account will have. And that's where the big party can be, the big food. Because, since it says 'and grants from European Union financial institutions' - that is what the explanatory statement says, and with this argument comes to be voted on - we do not know, we have no picture of the extent. Do they want financial assistance for refugees from the European Union to be channelled here and instead of going where they really need to end up, that is to say, these people, who need to, eventually end up in other pockets? With these thoughts I shall conclude, Mr President. And I am already in detail, I think, on the issues that concern us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Centro Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u395	What do you want, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u396	I have a question on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u397	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u398	Our parliamentary representative tabled a ministerial decision where a few days ago on the basis of this decision an account was introduced to the Bank of Greece. What we want to clarify from the government's point of view is whether this account is the same as that which comes from the amendment, or whether it will be for another purpose, whether it is different and why it is not on the basis that the previous Ministerial Decision is being repealed in any event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u399	Good. Mr Famelos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to have at least Mr Brutsi's time, not for anything else, but there are enough questions. I'll answer them in detail and haunt them. I would like to begin by agreeing with Mr Theocharopoulos' position that seriousness is required. And obviously at these times when our country is in need of seriousness first of all from Parliament and from the government. That is precisely what we are trying to do with the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, do not hide behind our finger. The amendments come to cover tragic mistakes of the administration of previous years. Why don't you tell me that it's not a tragic mistake that it wasn't predicted how children would go to give all-Greek examinations. And I do not believe that we will be indulging ourselves because we are going to correct something that is our obligation toward the youth of the country, particularly in rural areas and regional development. We must make such changes and make them with amendments. The second is the subject of the 'CRITERIA INFRASTRUCTURE'. The previous administration has chosen to unify several public - if you like - project-building systems in one body, but has not predicted to give them the money they would have been working on. In practical terms - and I say this to Mr Karras, too, with all the colleague, if you would like, communication -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u401	I have experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u402	I'll tell you this, Mr. Carras. And ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, it's not personal. For the sake of speech. If we do not transfer the funds of this account to the "CITIZENS OF INFRASTRUCTURE", it is like banning the "CITIAN INFRASTRUCTURES" from court and prison repairs. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have the right to ban this public body from building public works. We cannot deprive the quality of the infrastructure or the functioning of the courts and the course of justice. So it is our duty to cover tragic mistakes and shortcomings of the previous administration, to make this amendment as well. Of course, one cannot blame us for the fact that the SYRIZA Members choose, by strengthening growth, to reduce the cost of energy to small and medium-sized gas-fired units, because these exist on the gas network axis and we are aiming to strengthen them. I also call on my colleague from the Communist Party of Greece to think that lowering the cost of energy in small and medium-sized enterprises also improves the job position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u403	We're in position. You heard us. Don't give up on us. Mr President, I would like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u404	Mr Colleague, I would be happy to place you. In practice, Mr President, I think that employment, work, workers and the unemployed are favoured by lowering labour costs in craft and productive units and craftsmen. Let's go a little bit to these two who've been more concerned about you. Is the term of office of members of PPC's Board of Directors a photographic provision and is it about a particular person? Ladies and gentlemen, when you refer to a particular person, you clearly demonstrate that photographic is your aim of exclusion, because we were not referring to a person. Unfortunately, so far photographic was the provision and anti-democratic, which banned workers from picking anyone who wants the board of directors, because that was only true with one term, which was photographic. We are coming, and we are saying quite simply, that there must be no stumbling-up of democratic representation, particularly the stumbling-up of the terms, when even the independent authorities have recently been given the opportunity to repeat their term of office. Let's go to the last one, where the special bill is. The special aid account is aimed only at those who, exceptionally, want to provide resources for refugees. It comes, for example, from a philhellene or from a Greek fragile outside and wants to give resources. We therefore propose that this account be excluded from the procedure for taking over, issuing an order, a tender procedure based on the terms of the donor, if you like, the one that puts the aid at the moment. That is why, in order not to create impressions, I propose, Minister, that we withdraw the European Union's grants. It is not about the European Union's contractual financing of refugees. It was exceptionally a matter of tools. Ladies and gentlemen, if Europe's financial instrument comes exceptionally, we must legislate on an exceptional basis. So that there are no impressions, we remove it and we recommend to the Minister that he accept the removal. Because, in practical terms, ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Alliance, this amendment comes here to replace the ministerial decision, which has no legal basis, because you obviously know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u405	The management says, Mr. Famele!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u406	...that the law is above the ministerial decision, which will re-establish the framework. And stay out of this. You're very experienced in legislation, you know the procedure. The exceptionally, therefore, creation of the account and the exceptional management...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u407	"Exceptional management" says, Mr Famele!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Brutsi, you probably didn't understand anything. I feel like it's a pity to speak so long and not have you heard me. I guess you're only listening to your second self. I'll explain who he is. He's obviously not Greek, Mr. Brutsi. Why you are not currently serving the interest in production and the economy in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u409	That's very heavy you're talking about. So, you're Greek and we're not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u410	Mr President, please give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u411	I'll tell you, Mr. Brutsi, and you have the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u412	Let him, please, complete his thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u413	I, ladies and gentlemen, say to you that if there is a strengthening of the account from anyone outside the country or through the country, who wants exceptionally and on its own terms to create, if you wish, such a assistance programme, under these conditions, we agree to create the account. However, because we hear too much - and Mr Brutsis has also heard it - and obviously he can answer and I will then - catastrophically about the course of the country, it is a pity that the New Democracy was talking about destruction in 2015, when the recession was almost nullified, when they predicted that the recession would be 7%, when Greece was the first to absorb the NSRP, when we had a primary surplus of 0.25%, while we anticipated a deficit of 0.25% and more than 3%, while unemployment increased the public investment programme and while, ultimately, it all works for the benefit of our country and for the benefit of the progress of the Greeks. And it is a pity that foreign factors should be used, because that also implies an external policy of submissiveness, it states that we are not serving the interests of the country, but the interests of the party. And it is a pity to serve the interests of the party when our country has such a great need to rely on its feet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u414	Fine, finish your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u415	I don't think we should defend chairs. And we will never defend our chairs. In fact, do not judge, Mr Brutsis, by itself, because we have never said and have proved that no public contract is going for the benefit of any minister. They were filed in the House and you also hid it from Mr. Vitsa, all of the competition records that the Ministry of National Defence made. And Mr. Toskas answered Mr. Theodorakis' complaints and gave you the competitive details of the hot spots of the islands. We never learned to serve interplay circuits. We are defending the country, and we invite you at least now to understand that the only prospect is to get out of the crisis, to get up on our feet, to have national independent policy. We hope, at some point, that you mind too. For the Greeks voted against you three times, because you hadn't brained and served the interests of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u416	Aren't we going for a fourth time, see what happens?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr. Femmel. Mr. Lambroulis had asked for the floor. You want the floor, Mr. Bright?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u418	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u419	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u420	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u421	Mr. Amyra, don't get in any trouble right now. We'll start answering each other. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part’. B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part’. C. Other: ex II. ‘Creating the Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the State of Israel, of the other part’. D. OBJECTIVES ‘Preparation of the Common Aviation Area Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Moldova’. The Minister has the floor and we will finish the debate with the vote. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction at the broadness of the support for the agreement with New Zealand. I would also like to answer various questions raised in relation to the amendments that have been accepted. First of all, we agree with the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative to be just from private donations and donations and not from European money. We must all understand that this special account is a special account of the Bank of Greece. Therefore, other management issues do not come in and how the money will be moved. There are very clear procedures under the Bank of Greece's account. As far as I have seen in the amendment, there is an authorisation by way of derogation for the management of this money. But that is what there are, ladies and gentlemen, in too many legislations, when there are emergencies. Let me remind you of the specula and mud, which we ate at the ministry for the competition, with an invitation, for the containers that host refugees, when they were provided for in these procedures, and when all previous governments were assigned directly, when we had had natural disasters, when we had informed all the companies kept in the Ministry's register, eighteenth of the number. They had responded to the eight and finally four tenders were submitted. And I don't know what they said! And to understand how lousy slander there is, the number we asked was a thousand hundred and they only responded to seven hundred. It could be comfortable with the legislation that we found the Ministry to call this company and assign what it wanted and yet we heard what we heard. I do not want to go to reasonable terms to submit with what higher prices prior to contracts by direct award procedures and not through the electronic system, as we did, had been awarded. So you wait to see the ministerial decision that the Minister of Finance will make and then you blame him for opaque. Authorization shall be obtained for derogating procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u423	I'm sorry, but it's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u424	No, I don't forgive you, Mr. Brutsi. This applies to almost all procurement laws, the execution of studies and projects. Derogations shall be made. First time you hear it? The second is that we are accused of sloppy legislation as a government. Let us see some of the amendments: those that have passed and you have supported governments you know that everyday life obviously brings and there is a need for some amendments to deal with issues of everyday life. We must see them one, so that we can find out whether or not the government's legislation is sluggish, or whether the legislation that the government has found and whether we have an institutional depreciation in the country with what has been voted on in previous years. The previous government did not vote on how to carry out the works of the Ministry of Justice, from which resources will be paid. He didn't see that coming. It provided for an administrative press merger for employees and for perfection there. They didn't even care. And neither was the Ministry of Justice predicted or the resources of the FAO to be able to finance the "CITIAN INFRASTRUCTIONS" for projects that the Ministry of Justice wants to implement. It was assumed that the merger of the three agencies that existed from the previous governments, i.e. DPANIM, OSE and the company "THEMATIC SURVEILLANCE S.A.", was planned and you had seen it all. You haven't seen anything! Number of projects at the moment cannot be financed, nor can the contractors be paid, nor can they start new. So it was probably not our sloppy legislature, but it was a rough piece of legislation from the previous governments. The same applies to the movement of pupils. Let's go to PPC. Listen: The amendment tabled by the MPs and we accept it is about the representation of PPC workers and the uniform rules that must apply. Workers will decide who will have a representative on the Board of Directors of PPC. Rather Mr. Fotopoulou and those who have served on PPC's Board of Directors were photographed by the previous arrangement that only put one term in PPC. I guess that's what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u425	You're the ones who photograph them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u426	Now you're causing us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u427	Are we causing you? You haven't given another institution a term of office! You can explain why only in PPC you have put a term for the employee representative and the other bodies you have left it, without terms of order, with nothing, in bulk. We therefore accept the amendment as a government, because we believe in the single rules in all public limited companies. It is a question of democracy and equality for us. The workers will decide. No one is appointed. We are open, truly and sincerely, to the debate on the possible existence of terms and terms of reference and incompatibility, but also to uniform rules for all public limited companies. Mr President, some other things have been said, such as the revelation of WikiLeaks to the government and that this has created a very negative climate for the country. Mr. Brutsis, I would like to remind you that you are no longer running away. There's also the patriotic right to see other things. There is not only the desire of the institutions, as was the case with previous governments. You have also submitted Mr Draghi's statements, a presentation of Mr Draghi's interview and from what I read here, is from the valid site 'Liberal'. We know that you do not really need media support, whether these are sites, radio stations, newspapers or channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u428	So you're questioning the statements? The government?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u429	You can use something more reliable. You have so much in your hands that they are avading your positions and policies. Use something more reliable next time. That's almost your party printed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u430	Republishes it, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u431	Please! And to conclude, there were concrete and detailed answers from Mr. Vitsa. The whole dossier with all the costs of all ministries in relation to immigration is submitted to Parliament. We will continue to honour the tradition of the Greek people and our democratic payments in relation to immigrants. I don't know where Mr. Brutsis saw the streets of Immigrants requesting ID cards from Greek citizens. In fact, creating such a picture... That's what you said, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u432	Of course I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u433	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u434	All of Greece has seen it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u435	Really, where did you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u436	Instead of criticising why, for what reason, you blame us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u437	Even the 'Liberal' has not written what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u438	All Greece saw the video!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u439	A little quiet, please, so we can get this over with! Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u440	Mr. Karras, we are officially waiting for your complaints and for the company "THEMISE SURVEILLANCE S.A." and for any other body. But, indeed, I can't understand how the FAO once operated and what it did with the "MEMATIC S.A." in relation to whether the "CITIAN INFRASTRUCTIONS" can have money from the resources of the FAO and the Ministry of Justice to implement projects for justice. So will you tell your fellow lawyers tomorrow not to do any work in court or in prisons or anywhere, why do you have a bad picture of how ‘SEASSUBLE S.A.’ and ‘COMMUNICATION S.A.’ used to function? I would really like you to revise this view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks is adjourned: 'Following the Air Services Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of New Zealand and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u443	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u444	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: ‘Following the Air Services Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of New Zealand and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u446	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u447	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 304 and a special number 2 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u448	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u449	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u450	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u451	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u452	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u453	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 304 and a special 2 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 309 and a special number of seven?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u454	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u455	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u456	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u457	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u459	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 309 and a special 7 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 310 and a special number 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u460	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u461	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u462	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u463	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u464	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u465	So the amendment under general number 310 and a special 8 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 308 and a special number of six?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u466	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u467	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u468	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u470	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 308 and a special number of six was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 306 and a special number of 4 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u471	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 306 and a special 4 was accepted as it is unanimously adopted and is part of the draft law as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u473	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u474	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: ‘Following the Air Services Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of New Zealand and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in the articles. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u475	It's a conspiracy for this House. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u476	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u477	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u478	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks: ‘Preparation of the Air Services Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of New Zealand and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in only one debate on the principle, articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u479	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u480	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-07-S1-commons.u481	With the consent of the House at 19.45 the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning, April 8, 2016, at 10.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions.
