ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Ladies and gentlemen, today's up-to-date questions are not debated because of the failure of the competent ministers. Minister, because only you are here, who represent the government, I will necessarily address you to say that this cannot be done again. This is the second time this week when no question is being discussed on the grounds that the Ministers are not coming. In the twenty-five years, when I am in the Greek Parliament, I do not remember that happening before. Please, to the extent that you can intervene. I will also inform the President of Parliament. I have to announce the topical and urgent questions here and delete them. The first under number 896/23-5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the state of control of the supporting documents of the participants in the tender for the recruitment of firefighters for a five-year term, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The second, with number 901/24-5-2016, is a top-stage question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the problems of issuing visas for Russian tourists, is not being discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The third, with number 902/24-5-2016, top-circuit question from the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa from the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problems of crops from rainfall in Thessaly, is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The first under number 897/23-5-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the Ministry's intentions to restore the scientific park of Patras under the supervision of the Institute of Technology and Research, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second under No 891/23-5-2016 topical question by Independent MP II Athens Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of State regarding the "private promotion of specific MPs and journalists from private and state channels", is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. Finally, the question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Association of PAO. - P.M.A. Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulou to the Minister for Health, on problems in the operation of the operating rooms of the General Hospital of Elefsina "Thrias" is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 30 May 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 899/23-5-2016 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Health, concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESRB programme. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 898/23-5-2016 by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the integrated quartz protection system for producers of the Kavala Regional Unit. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 875/16-5-2016, a topical question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the planning of the Ministry for the new anti-nuclear period. 3. The Question No 846/9-5-2016 by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Health, concerning the immediate treatment of the issue of the on-site child in Argolida. 4. Under number 825/254-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Central Theodoras Association to the Minister of Health concerning the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital "Metaxas". 5. The Question dated 829/25/2016 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the old EUR 90 million debt on urban buses due to previous administrations. 6. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Health about the needs of the Artificial Leaf Unit of the General Hospital of Halkidiki. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia. I also have the honour to announce to the House the following: The Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Environment and Energy, and the Deputy Minister of Environment and Energy, tabled a draft law on 26-5-2016: "Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding on Military Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Arab Republic of Egypt". The Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights submitted a draft law on 26-5-2016 on “Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on the Status of their Forces”. The Ministers of National Defence, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights submitted a draft law on 26-5-2016: ‘Programme Arrangement’ API -1424 [MIOS] between the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport of the Republic of Austria, and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Defence of Estonia and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of National Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Greece and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Finland and the Ministry of Defence of the French Republic and the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Poland and the Republic of the Republic of Poland and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Defence and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic and the Republic and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Defence and the Republic of the Republic and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic and the Republic of Poland and the Republic and the Republic of the Republic of Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of the Republic of Ministry of Israel and the Republic of Iceland They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he is prepared to do so. 25/19/14-2016 topical question of Members of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, Georgios Arvanitides, Evangelos Venizelos, Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Vasilios Kegeroglou, Harulas (Haras) Kefidou, Ioannis Koutsoukou, Dimitrios Kremastiou, Dimitris Konstantopoulos, Andreas Lovertou, Ioannis Maniati, Theodoros Papatheodorou, Constantinos Scandalidis, Michael Jelegi and Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the subject: «By postponing the development plan for the country».
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, before the question I would like to refer to the timely question that has been cancelled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u4	Wait a minute, Mr Kegeroglou, to complete the announcement and before the first question, Mr Constantinople, I will give you the floor. I would also like to say that speakers will be Mr Constantinople, Mr Koutsoukos, Mr Cremastinos, Mr Arvanitidis, Mr Jellonis, Mrs Kefalidou and Mr Manatis. The parties, which have been tabled to the Bureau, have appointed as Parliamentary Representatives for today's meeting as their colleagues: From the Democratic Complaint of PASOK - DIMAR to Mr Andreas Loverdos, from SYRIZA Mr Santorini Nektarios, from New Democracy, from Olga Kefalokoryannis, from the Golden Dawn of Ilias Panayotaros, from the Communist Party of Greece, from the Communist Party of Greece, from Mr Nikolaos Karatanasopoulos, from Potamis Spyridon Danellis, from the Annellas Mr Dimitrios Kammenos and from the Union of Centres Mr Marios Georgiadis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I might need less time. Today, Greece has the honour of visiting the President of the Russian Federation, Mr Putin, and the absence of the Foreign Minister from the question is justified. However, the whole subject of the visit cannot be compensated - whatever the result may be - for what is happening with the visa. The visa year for the Russian tourist who wants to visit Greece has been in over ten days. What can we talk about from there? There's one thing. Turkey is sending them away, they want people to come to Greece and we are saying that we cannot. That can't stand it anymore! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u6	Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the question we tabled some time ago could be said today by the government to be unreasonable and not timely. It is unreasonable, because they legislate so quickly on matters such as insurance and taxation, which we cannot catch up with. The government, however, in addition to the cut-off it has made for wages, pensions, expenditure, has also legislated the cut-off for growth by a number of measures in the last eighteen months. Minister, because they have recently been heard by the government, by government officials and by MPs obsessed and ideologies, we want to tell you that we too are obsessed. We are obsessed with evaluation, merit and solidarity. Our idea is growth in production, production investments, investments in extroversion, investments in innovation, investments in jobs. Our obsessions will analyse you, in order to be useful as opposition to criticism, but also with our proposals, our progressive proposals, which concern the country. But let's see who the developer is in the last eighteen months: The first measure is the overtax that you legislated a few days ago. And I wonder: do you, as Minister of Development, rejoice when you talk about the stable tax system - in which tax will be stable for the next few years - which you will legislate in the development law? Are you proud of this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u8	Why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u9	‘Why not?’. The Minister said a minute ago 'why not?', why not be proud of the coming years? That's probably in your left perception of growth. I'm sure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u10	We're just under Germany, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u11	You're under Germany. Minister, sometimes there are no words to answer you, I would say not with courage, with the courage you have in the government - and not just you - to think and answer with such simplicity that we are just under Germany, so we are still more taxing. So I think that in the next few years you have something like that in your mind to have another tax. The second is insurance, which hits the professionals, the capital controls. And because you are talking about classism, Minister, the capital controls, as you know, have hit small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. Under no circumstances have the multinationals been hit. You know yourself, based on the Institute of GATT, how many companies have recently closed down, how many enclosures have entered Greek businesses and how many companies have left to go to bilateral countries, to Cyprus or to other countries of Europe. Another big issue in the cutter is stopping large investments. And you will allow me to start from the "Athinian Riviera", from the Greek and say: Who can I believe or Mr. Tsakalotos? Mr. Tsakalotos said a couple of months ago in this House that the contract would come. And yesterday you told us that the Greek would come on June 10th. Do you know what that means? So, does the country not want to move forward on its own? Is Shoeble supposed to tell us? On our own, can we not move forward to create new jobs? Let us hope that this great investment, this flagship project will progress very soon. But that's not all, Minister. Let's see what's going on in the PPPs for the waste, in which you're involved. The waste is all around the country. And right now they've stopped all over Greece except in western Macedonia that's been signed before you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u12	Not before. I signed them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u13	Minister, the contest was completed and you just signed the contract. You must learn to honor the efforts of previous governments and recognize them. What is going on with the PPPs, ladies and gentlemen? In the past year, the European Commission's good practice, public-private partnerships, had gone on to implement the PPPs costing 1.5 to 1.7 billion. I also have a detailed list of PPPs. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned list, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A few days ago, the government, Mr. Haritsis, along with the Minister responsible, Mr. Tsironi, announced at a joint press conference that other than the Peloponnese, the rest of the plan would cost 2.3 billion. Mr. Chironis, who trusted those who sent it, said that the evidence is not correct and that his assessment is at 1.5 billion. And he says, "I've only got 900 million. I ask you, Minister: do you not know that Mrs Kretshu, the Commissioner responsible, has told you and the entire government that she will not pay all the waste management? What are you gonna do? When will the "holy triumph", Flampourris, Stathakis, Chironis, decide on how all these procedures will proceed? We suggest you move on to the design of PPPs, which will give thirty-five thousand new jobs, fifteen thousand permanent and twenty-five thousand during the construction sector. They'll give 9.7 billion directly to the market. There will be no need for the country to pay a single euro from the EDP, because half of it will be leveraged by the private sector and half of it will be one of these 900 million that it currently has from the ESRB. I am making the statements by Mr Haritsis and Mr Tsironi. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And how, Minister, that you were also invited to BSE, will you do the circular economy if you have not solved the problems for the management of waste? Minister, another big issue is where we are at the moment with the NRP 2007-2013, what your positions were, if you said truths or lies, if you recognize the work of previous governments, if you have touched on what you have found and how much money you have put into the market and the national economy. You yourself submitted the documents on how many projects were not completed by 31-12-2015. And you told me that it was 1,431 projects, amounting to 1,3 billion euros. Of course, you answer that it will be from the co-financed section. And Mrs Cretsu, the Commissioner responsible, says that what was not completed by 31-12-2015, will be paid from national resources. Believe you or Mrs. Cretsu? You tell us that you put EUR 6.4 billion on the market in 2015. You are in the line of Papachristopoulos, which rains billions long before Papachristopoulos himself. Minister, I hope that the evidence you bring, for once, is not from Mr Corkolis, but from the public service. Mr. Corkolis is a political person. I hope you will once testify to a table signed by a director of the Ministry. And I hope - and more so - that the evidence sent to you by Mr Kokkolis will also be accompanied by the tables sent by the relevant public officials. How, ladies and gentlemen, on 1-5-2015, which was completed and was just before the elections, we were able to absorb 17,473 billion, today the OPC to say that the total absorption of Community funds is 19,898 billion, and you were able to drop 6,4 billion. I'm filing the data on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is not arithmetic, nor is it a "SYRIZA statistics". It's not coming out. Seventeen billion and six billion makes us 23 billion. Nineteen billion minus 17 million makes us 2.4 billion. Of course, you have to tell us how much money you have been paying for the past few days at the EIF and how much money you have named in private investment. And I hear you say again: 'Mr Presidents, we will fall' 9 billion more from the new ESDP. I am telling you, Minister, that you have made 270 million invitations today. I am talking about the new programmes, not the projects carried over. And I'm telling you - and I'll bet with you because the Prime Minister puts it - that by the end of 2017, when you have announced 270 million, it will not have fallen even 50% on the market. And I ask you: While we had planned from the previous government - and I will give it to you - both the processing and the basic chains, when will you draw out the major notices on key value chains, such as cotton, which starts from sowing to product quality certification, which were agreed and could give added value to the country? When will you open the notices for the major sectors in tourism, such as medical and health tourism? So, Minister, while the financial instruments should today be at the NSRF 2007-2013, which is the only tool that could give and help the development of the country - as you will know, ladies and gentlemen - at the annual meeting, which was held by the European Commission and the officials of the Ministry and your departments, they asked for an update of EX ANTE. We, Minister - I will present this to the House - had completed an excellent study on 12 December 2014 with the financial instruments, which you followed in the first EX ANTE. Unfortunately, however, in the way you have done, you have arrived today 15 months later to ask for an update from the European Commission to proceed with the activation of financial instruments. What does that mean, Minister? It means you're still going to be too late for development. For the Yunger package, I want to be absolutely honest...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u14	And that's what we're gonna close, though. I've left you four minutes longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u15	I'll take the...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u16	All right, move on. Try to pick it up a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u17	Inside that we have the Yungger package. I want to be absolutely honest with everyone. There were programs we handed over. Unfortunately, there is no co-ordinator anymore. However, as you have answered the question, everything is done by experienced staff of your office. It's all done by a closed team. But I want to be very honest that this process of the Yunger package has to do with the private sector, with PPP, and the government's intervention is to a small extent. And I hope you tell the world that the first financing of any company will be delayed, because there really is a bureaucracy in Europe as well. But we're going to development law. Minister, we really had a debate - and I think it was frankly done - on previous development laws and resolution. And I want to say that for previous development laws you have no responsibility. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u18	Mr Colleague, we can hear you, the Minister can't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u19	Yeah. I say that for the previous development laws it is not responsible, and the Minister says to me, 'no'. But now that I've thought about it, I would like to ask you this: Copyright from Mrs Katseli, are you only taking it into the loan law or for the entire term of office? Because it's Mrs Katseli who's made the previous development law. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We should therefore know how we respond and what copyright you have bought, to see where we are criticizing you for the previous forty years that have destroyed the country. We must see this, Minister, and you must decide. Therefore, for the previous development laws there was a proposal and a resolution that we agreed here. But tell me, Minister, what will we legislate when you bring development law? The development law or regimes? Ladies and gentlemen, we do not legislate on development law. We have eight different regimes from 150 million each. If it took sixteen months - after you have announced it fifteen times - as well as some forty ministerial decisions to bring development law, I want you to know that you will not precede a SYRIZA government mandate to include a single project. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, however, Mr Ministers, because we want to be useful, we are presenting our proposals today - and we will see them thoroughly - for the newly created businesses. It's an effort that has been made, together with people who work in this area, and you can evaluate them, see them and support them. [[At this point, the ending bell of the Member's time is ringing.]] Mr President, I am ending with a big deal of our proposal on the energy cost of businesses. It is a very big issue, which has been opened for too long. Minister, it will only be possible for industry, energy companies, to have a better product quality, and it can be a big deal of gentlemen, as had been done last time, for new jobs. Minister, on 7 December 2015 - and now I go to another favourite person, Mrs Jackson - we have tabled our proposals to reduce energy costs. Unfortunately, we had no response to these proposals so that they could be discussed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with these obsessions and ideas in order to create the great progressive proposal that we will present to the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u20	You realise that there will be flexibility in all the speakers and in the parliamentary delegations. I use time that we have escaped the topical questions, although it would have been better if the topical questions had been asked. In any case, however, today there will be a relaxation in order to improve the question. The same will, of course, apply to the Minister. Pursuant to Rule 135(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the President present at the PASOK - DIMAR, if he wishes, can speak now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u21	After a few speakers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u22	Okay, by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure. When you want to take the floor, let me know. Let's go to the second speaker, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr. Kutsuko, I've been putting you seven minutes from the beginning instead of five so that you don't start looking at me when time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u23	I want a dentist too, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u24	All right, let's get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Constantinople, ladies and gentlemen, no development law, even the best, in other words, the one who would have had what our rapporteur, Mr Constantinople, said earlier, and no development plan, can be effective, can yield to this material environment, which was fuelled by the government through the tours of the first half of 2015, which cost the Greek economy and the heavy tax imposed as a result of the third memorandum and which retains real resources from the economy, resources that could go to growth. Minister, because you are watching the international organisations and often you mention their data here, you know that on the basis of their forecasts we had less GDP by 10 billion in 2015 and another that will be in 2016. That's 20 billion dollars. You know that two weekends, here, last time we taxed, which together with those we imposed in 2015 is about 6 billion. The development tombstone will read over: “20 billion less GDP, 6 billion more taxes.” This will be the inscription that will accompany you. Ladies and gentlemen, the income tax has increased. It increased in particular for small businesses by three points, from 26% to 29%. The tax on legal persons has increased, the dividend tax has increased. The contribution of solidarity has increased, indirect taxation has increased overall. You started from 13%, you received 13% VAT, you took him to 23%, and now to 24%. That's a great performance! You increased all the taxes on fuel, drinks, cigarettes, coffee, internet, pay-TV everywhere. This has a huge impact on active demand and, on the other hand, increases production costs. In some cases it is equal to 100% of the raw material. As I explained next time to the Minister for Rural Development, 20 minutes in wine are the cost of raw materials. The same is true of the two euros on the imported unprocessed coffee. Is it possible for a small and medium-sized enterprise to combine this tax burden and insurance contributions to be professionally able to profit or to be judged to be inconsistent and closed? HICPIA, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Minister of Development, who we had reduced him to industrial premises and to industrial buildings, precisely to strengthen production, has increased with the last bill. Are you following the evidence of GEMI, Minister? They close a lot more businesses than they open up. How will one invest when he does not know what dawns on him next day, due to the instability of the tax system? A study that came out yesterday, PWC, says that business taxation has changed five times over recent years. Minister, where are you an economist, how will someone invest when they don't know when she'll get the money she invested? So, with this tax, what rate of profitability should he have to get his money back? And why would he come to invest in Greece? He won't come, it's very simple. No one needs to argue more about the self-proof. There are some indicators which illustrate the development path. The freezing capital ratio is forecast for 2016 minus 8.4%. It's written in the draft budget report, which you have brought. The economic climate index, which was 102 units in November '14, has fallen to 90 units. Some tables, Mr Minister, which are included in the last report of the Parliamentary Budget Office, prove what I am saying. Here, the indicator for the economic climate - I will table it in the Minutes - here is the indicator for increasing the tax burden due to excessive tax burden, here is the index for the deposits of enterprises and households, here are the index for the unexistent loans of businesses, here, ladies and gentlemen, the cost of money for loans to Europe and Greece. These are some of the evidence. Consider them, perhaps give us some answers, although they are not answered. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I say, on the basis of all of this, that we need another policy that goes beyond the development laws, and even the best - I repeat - which will have them all, a policy that is pro-investing and which has as its main pillar a pro-investing tax system that is stable. And for that to be the case, you need to change your watch. We believe that the stability of the tax system, not at this level of burdens, but with a tax reduction clause, in relation to the progress of the economy and economic sizes, must be the result of a broad agreement, political and social, which will give the certainty that for the coming years, anyone who comes to invest will know what dawns on it next day. That is not what you can do, because you cannot guarantee growth and that is the big issue. And that is why we are working as a Democratic Incorporation together with the proposal, which our rapporteur mentioned earlier, for an integrated development plan, in order to ensure stability and guarantee it as a factor, which is interested in the country's progress, which, with what you have done so far, is 'out of the edge'. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u26	My colleague, Mr Kremastinos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I wanted to ask you this: I have read the bill, which you have made public, and I do not understand what the pillars of the bill are, as regards competitiveness, as regards the tax system and, of course, the third element which is not mentioned in the bill but which must exist, and it is political stability and seriousness. In order for an investor to invest, bring his money, he must first recognise that there is serious and political stability, a consistency and, of course, also the other two elements that I have mentioned. Of course, you will be given time to develop these issues and the secondary debate. But, first of all, there is a large gap. The second thing I have to say, and it is now also timely, and perhaps my colleague and friend, Mr Loverdos, should develop it, but because of insularity I will also invoke it, is the famous Article 101 of the Constitution, paragraph 4, which says that for every legislation relating to development, the legislature must take into account the constitutional legislature, which says that it must safeguard, strengthen and in some way give priority to the development of island regions. How consistent is this bill with Article 101 of the Constitution? You must give us a clear answer here, which says that it is consistent on this and that point, since, as I see it, not on your own, but on VAT, there will be recourse by many parties to the Council of State. For you realise that the applicants are right because they are being destroyed. In fact, tourism is shrinking into the Dodecanese and the border regions. I'm going to ask you a honest and simple question. If you would like to invest tourists in Kos, for example, why should you invest in Kos and not invest in Bontrum, which is opposite, which gives exactly the opposite of what we give? In other words, starting with zero taxation, it gives all the possibility of taxing after the product, which will win after ten years and of course there is also a better stability and seriousness, because what seriousness can...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u28	You're talking about Turkey?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u29	Let me explain what I mean and after I'm done, you'll answer me. I repeat, then. What seriousness can anyone say about a government that its main executives, one 24 hours after the adoption of the relevant VAT law, say that it is a criminal act and an anti-constitutional one? The investor when he hears these things, will he come to invest? That is why in Turkey - because you told me about the seriousness - there are no such things and I choose it because it is the neighbouring region. In addition, a few kilometers out of the tourist area also exists the hot spot. Is that a tourist ad? Could not the hot spot be on a secondary island and not on the main island, which is one of the main elements of the country's income in terms of tourist income? So with all this, I would like you to argue with me, because you will invest in Kos and not in Turkey. It would also be interesting to understand how the one who is already in debt and you bring him up from 13% to 23% and last and 24% will respond. These are issues which are particularly important for tourism. I will not proceed to the end of the night, which is an additional element, which is more burdensome than that. I will not say anything about the abolition of 50% of the consumption of alcohol tax. You tell me, this is beneficial in terms of medicine, so that people don't drink and not become alcoholics, but not in terms of tourist development. Because, as you know, the distance between the islands and the opposite coast is a few miles. In some places, the distance is one to two miles. In other words, people can even get their drinks to the other side - I mean, tourists - and not drink them where they are. These are things, which may be simple, understandable, but particularly aggravating. These, of course, will see in the coming years that they will affect tourist development. Of course, the bill - such as admittedly other bills - does not have the characteristic of what you really expect from the various packages, such as, for example, how you think to use the Juncker package and, above all, how you will deliver the Junker package. Why am I saying that? Because simplely in the previous - and I will speak in particular - significant, if you like, sizes have been consumed in doing counterproductive work. How much money has been given to, for example, health centres, which are not currently working throughout the territory and which have destroyed their machinery? This was done by the European programmes. How many streets have they become secondary and three-fold, while the area that is the key area, which gives most of the money, if you want, to the revenues of the state from tourism, is the first to deaths from accidents due to the bad roads? And I'm talking about the Dodecanese. Be first in fatal accidents due to bad roads? And all these programmes, which are supposed to be available to improve tourism and improve the conditions associated with tourism - and certainly transport is a key element - are such impoverishment? I would therefore expect you to tell us what is actually planned for the development of island regions through your bill and how to heal what I have said. Because what I have highlighted will be the problems facing any government in these areas in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u30	There's been an intraconscious change in order. Mr. Arvanitidis is called at Step Ioannis Maniotis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we tabled the topical and urgent question on the postponement of the country's development plan before last weekend, which passed the famous law on the surplus. So no one wonders what point the debate on the country's development planning today, when a week ago the government majority sold it all out - in a way that I will prove to you immediately afterwards - is a top issue that will be chasing you all your life. These are the historical archives followed by all the members of the government who signed the agreement and those who voted for it. I shall therefore not talk either about increasing taxation or about the problems created in the agricultural sector, or about wage cuts, or about selling PPC or selling urban transport. I will speak only about what is a top ideological, political and national priority for us. Our priority is along with our substantiated criticism of the government and suggestions to defend national rights. So while, on the one hand, we have a government that has developed in a country - colony, in a country - protectorate, in a defeated society, what each Greek citizen needs is to regain our national confidence, regain our institutional equilibrium at European Union level and exploit innovation and productivity, our national comparative advantages, to become a country that will not need any loans. I shall begin and deal with three issues, Minister, very briefly. First, the superstition. I will bring you back Articles 190 and 200, which, in our view, have been a matter of national waste disposal for a hundred years. Because people will also listen to us, I want to be very clear. You'll bring us, I imagine, a few weeks from the new development law. How much money will the development law provide for, how much investment? Will it provide 100, 200, 300 or 400 million a year? Whatever you want to say. What are you gonna bring us? You will bring us a law to vote on how the country's development will be through these funds. Now see what you signed last weekend. In the two articles of the bill that I mentioned before, in the U.S.O., in 190 and in 200, the twenty-fifth budget is sold out from any development law you will bring. How? Under the rules of procedure of the Supreme Court, which, under the Rules of Procedure, will only be signed by the Minister of Finance and, if we want to change it, there will be signature of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board of the Overseas Board. To do so: All the money that will be gained from the demilitarisations, from the sale, as you have organised, which you are supposed to go to development, will go in the direction of strategic development, not as will any government, not as will any parliament, but as will be chosen by the Minister of Finance not by law, but by internal text, by rules. If something changes to the country's development perspective and we want to change it over the next two years, we will have to ask for the signature of the lenders. This is a national sale. This creates a country - colony, a country - protectorate, a country in which the national parliament has no reason for the development process, for today and tomorrow in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Maniotis, I'm sorry to interrupt for a few seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and four teachers and four educational attendants from the 1st Elementary School of Krononas Heraklion Crete and from the 5th Municipal School of Daphne. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Maniatou, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u33	I now come to my second comment, Minister. Yesterday I was in Brussels at a large energy conference with the presence of the Regional Development Commissioner, Mrs Corina Cretsu. It is the Commissioner who has the money of all the structural funds. The subject of the conference was energy. Look for the Commissioner's speech yesterday. He said yesterday - Mr Papadimoulis was present at this meeting at the conference - that he is going to make EUR 69 billion of energy, of which EUR 18 billion is going to be spent in the next programming period on energy saving. Minister of Development, who is also responsible for the new NSRF, had been tabled at the end of 2014 a proposal to the Structural Funds in order for energy savings issues to be invested in the next 2,5 billion euros in the country in housing, in public buildings, in a waste public sector, in business buildings, in private buildings, such as hotels, businesses, etc. This plan would bring Greece fifty thousand jobs in the construction sector. You pulled this proposal back. You pulled it back. It's a proposal that's documented. In fact, I have to tell you this because you asked me 'if you and I do.' Yeah, you. The worst of all is that the strategy, with which we had tabled this proposal, was scored in April 2016 for the strategy we had put forward as the second best national energy savings strategy in buildings in all Member States. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u34	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u35	Therefore, you have had and cancelled a proposal that is documented, which creates jobs, which are directly eligible, with a process, strategy and programme classified as the second best of the European Union. And what did you do? You canceled it and pulled it back. Talk to Mrs. Cretsu. He said it in Brussels yesterday. I shall end, ladies and gentlemen, with an issue that, in my view, constitutes a bomb, a sabotage, in fact, on the foundations of anyone who wants to make a strategic investment in the country, a strategic investment in either public or private. Again last weekend you had a late ministerial amendment and abolished all the capital that provides for new uses of the country's land. Minister, you have in your General Secretariat of Strategic Investments, now that we are talking about, three major investment strategies we expect, two tourism and one energy. The two tourists are each of 200 million, one in Crete and one in Karystos, Evia. Will these investments now, as the investors have submitted, be approved on the basis of the old uses of land in 1987, which led us to cancel our 2014 law, or to new uses of land?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u36	Until the new ones come out with the old ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u37	So with the uses of land in 1987. Thank you for the answer. I'm reading what you can't approve. In the category 'tourism-recreation', which are the two major investments, you cannot incorporate offices and banks because the 1987 Act did not provide for it. In the use of land "business parks" you cannot include car workshops, stations, shopping malls, logistics. Are you going to develop the country strategically with this law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u38	With the new guy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u39	Because you told me about the law that is being prepared, I would like to inform you of something and ask Mr. Tsironis and Mr. Skourletis. Has there been any committee that prepares the new law? Because I know there's not been any preparation at all, and most likely we can wait for no more than a year and a half until the competent ministers are able to bring in the new law. I shall end, Mr President - and thank you for your tolerance - with the Athenian Riviera.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u40	But close soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u41	Yes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government forgets nr.4277/2014, the law on the new regulatory plan of Athens - Attica, thirty years after Mr. Tritsi, which it voted against. I am tabling these specific wordings for the Minutes. [[At this point, a Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In 2014, then, we passed Athens' new regulatory plan in August, thirty years after Tritsi, after 1985. Today, then, 30% of the citizens of this country have a strategic development plan for the next twenty years. You voted against it. But do you know what you have no right to do? Infring Article 11(2), which reads as follows: "The axis of the marine front of the urban complex from the Faliikos to the Vouliagmeni, whose main orientation is to ensure the opening of the metropolitan complex of Athens to the coastal front and the functional interface with the development of uses" - not courts - "culturalism, tourism and metropolitan sport, as well as to ensure the continuity and accessibility of the coastal zone for all residents and visitors of the city."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u42	Don't read all the law now, Mr. Maniots!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u43	Minister, this law, this article you wanted to trespass on. Well, in that sense, there is no strategy for the development of the country. On the contrary, you're tearing down everything you've found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u44	Because my friend, Vassilis Kegeroglou, a little confused, will Mr. Jeep speak now and then Mrs. Gennamas?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u45	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u46	Here, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days we have been watching that the government has served as an unprecedented communication company with a central topic of development that is coming and headed by the Prime Minister. From the serious theory of the spring we have reached 'will rain billions'. This is the theater of absurdity, a cheap propaganda, because after your proud negotiations, capital controls, the third SYRIZA - ANEL Memorandum and the fourth term, making our country a protectorate, it is a matter of regularity now for you to talk about development. In fact, you had planned to bring developmental law now, after sixteen months. But what development are you talking about, when, with your own bills, you have discouraged every investment initiative, just like your ideas, and are you aiding disinvestment in a unique way? Development and government SYRIZA - ANEL do not match. Anyone who hears talk about motives and investment really thinks he lives in another country. You've turned the country into tax hell. And with this regime, who dares to invest and why? In the draft law you say that you will strengthen primary production, in order to be extrovert, you will support processing operations in the agri-food sector, with an export orientation and support the agri-food chain. I agree. The rural economy is one of the most important pillars of economic and social development in our country. It establishes a part of food security and adequacy and contributes to regional development and social cohesion in the region. How will that be achieved, however, I would really like to hear when your government's policy is working as a hollow for the agricultural sector. You have loaded the agricultural economy and the Greek farmer with incredible taxes and contributions until yesterday, which increase production costs and create suffocation conditions for the Greek countryside and thus for the Greek farmer. For example, for your tax counter-reformation, which was the trick to drive farmers' insurance contributions to triple with 27% on their income, including all subsidies, by going from 13% to 22% to 45%, VAT from 13% to 23% and now to 24%, by abolishing all island policies - to support primary production on the islands! - by increasing oil and agricultural currents. In fact, how dislikeful of the primary sector is that where you have a budget gap, you put taxes on the agricultural sector, such as the tax on wine. On the other hand, it is unprecedented, for the first time we see it as a factor of production being taxed. The result of production is taxed. Also, you do something very clever: After reducing the objective values, the cost of impairment comes and you put it to the three hundred thousand professional farmers. Their parcels are considered to be real estate, which therefore exceeds 200,000 - a home of the farmer plus the parcels - and you triple it with the supplementary tax. By extension, from 1 to 2 euro per acre, each farmer will pay seven to eight euros the income tax on his parcels. What kind of rural development are you talking about? Apart from the unprecedented tax raid and tax raid, however, you are incapable of planning any development policy in the primary sector and thus the modernisation of the rural economy. The Development and Fisheries Programmes, which are an important part of the NRP and are approaching the 5 billion, which you found ready, are still looking for today. Although we are in their second year of implementation, there has been no formality or a sample of them, constantly smuggling promises. Both, however, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the Ministry of Development continuously postpone the start of applications from the beneficiaries, with promises that in the autumn, at best, we will have a notice. Of course, behind this weakness and failure at the start of the Rural Development and Fisheries Programmes a great failure of the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government is hidden. Due to the implementation of the Capital Controls and the inability to find funding for the completion of investments and the payment of the beneficiaries, you transfer as bridges to the new Agricultural Development Programme 2015-2020 amounts of 1.2 billion from the previous Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u48	No, that can't be. I've already given you three minutes more than your time. Please complete. We said flexibility, but not that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u49	Well, I'll be done. The volume of commitments made - bridge was essentially formed on the basis of the delays in payments by OPEKEPE, as well as the delay in the implementation of private projects for IMPs, Leader and Processing. As far as the Fund for Rural Entrepreneurship was concerned, you returned 112 million, because you could not absorb them and implement these measures. In order to ashes the farmers' eyes and create impressions, you are pre-publishing Measure 6.1 for young farmers. Be careful, however: You do not make a temporary notice. You make a pre-publishment and have given young farmers only one and a half months to make a statement of IACS about the transfer of rights. While several young people have made progress in the IACC declaration, you are constantly changing the criteria. I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u50	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u51	The Ministry of Rural Development cannot coordinate with OPEKEPE, thus confusing, with the victims of young farmers who want to invest in the rural economy, which proves how unprepared you are for the implementation of the Rural Development Programme. You have subjected agricultural households to unbelievable costs of transferring rights, with a 20% loss of subsidies, with uncertain results. You are destroying the hopes and resources of the new generation. You are undermining the future of the rural economy and the country. In all this unfavourable economic climate, when considering the lack of strategic planning, the absence of an innovative research programme for the primary sector, you are perfectly aware of your utopian project for rural development. You are driving the country into full underdevelopment and especially the region. In a short time - here we are, and we will all see them together - agricultural production will shrink into the hands of big-scale and small-sized enterprises, which you claim to be strengthening with the promoted development law of the Rural Development Programme, will not exist. If you really want to talk about rural development, deposit a comprehensive plan, first, with low tax rates, according to the specificity of the agricultural sector - lower production costs for the farmer, to be competitive - with maximum use and absorption of the resources of the rural development programme, decentralisation here and now for specific actions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u52	Finish, Mr. Jelloney, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President. ... and planning for targeted decentralisation, that is, resources in the regions for young farmers, improvement plans, small irrigation plans, reafforestation and Leader. Only then will we be able to have a competitive primary sector that can support the Greek economy and thus maintain social cohesion in the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after taking part in the "Democracy Workshop" training programme organized by the Foundation, ten nine students and students and two teachers from the 1st Daphne Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Gennimata.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Democratic Independence have been mentioned and will be discussed in detail on all questions of question. I personally would like to focus on specific elements that shape the country's economic situation and potential today, because after seventeen months of governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, we can now make a fund, which is why the fund is less. Mr Tsipras' first period cost the Greek people 86 billion. I'm not saying it. The Bank of Greece's governor says it. Banks were given a gift to today's owners and Greek citizens were deprived of one of the fundamental rights in the European Union, that of the free movement of capital. The great protagonist of that period, Mr Varoufakis today, has opened his mouth and says a lot. But Mr Tsipras, who called him an asset for the country, does not remember him, knows nothing about him, says nothing about him. Looks like he was another big delusion. The second period of Mr. Tsipras was equally tragic: the country in humiliation, the public wealth in the management of foreigners, democracy under restriction and homes in the market crows. There may, of course, be some loose ends, some of them 'heavy', as they say, in order to close the evaluation, but it is certain that the cycle of illusion that SYRIZA - ANEL partners have been cultivating for five years. The myth has closed that you supposedly are the protectors of the poor and the weak. Because when, Minister, you are subject to the political choices of the most conservative circles in Europe, only protectors of the weak cannot be. You are their executioners and now you come and execute the islands too! We, ladies and gentlemen, introduced the reduced VAT on the islands and protected him throughout the crisis. You're the ones who banish him and leave the weeping, supposedly, because you've all voted with both your hands. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So anyone who does not agrees to have the guts resigned rather than retrospectively say what every Greek citizen would like to hear. You will apologise for all this, Minister. [[Applause from the wings of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR]] Over the last few weeks, the government has discovered a new story. She's got her own success story. What's that? The'story development'. But there is no automatic pilot for development in the country. That is why, Minister,'story development' is another delusion. The development issue has never been so closely linked to the political issue in the country. Investors, at global level, are interested in seeing it is to identify the political risk. Unfortunately, at your own risk, after so many years, our country is still considered by investors a country of high political risk for investment. Nobody knows when the new supposedly revolutionary act of the government will take place. No one knows when we will get rid of capital controls, when, finally, the necessary reforms will be made or when you will, once again, change taxes. It's very simple. This government cannot lead the effort to the country's development progress. The brand name "SYRIZA - ANEL" is repulsive for foreign and local investors. Quite simply, this government cannot do without these people who have undermined all over the past few years any effort to reach agreement and common effort to tackle the budgetary deficit and the deficit of competitiveness, cannot be the people who have refused all the changes and reforms to bring growth. They cannot bring growth to those who, over a year, have brought down the recession. We saw what they can do in practice. They cannot be celebrated because they finally submitted the first proposal to the Juncker package to bring growth. I would remind you that for a year in all the other European countries the Juncker package has been making payments. We're starting now. They cannot bring the development of those who have today discovered that there is the NSRF, that it has resources and that, thanks to it, it can rain money. But above all, Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos cannot lead this great development effort because they have divided society all these years and the productive forces of the country. They're breaking up and trying to hit, to pooren the middle class. It's a very targeted policy. And we heard with surprise - that is not enough - the horrific statements of a civil-war climate Member of the SYRIZA about how they treat the middle class, which is the backbone right now, if we want growth to go ahead. After the signing of the third memorandum by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, with the substantive measures which were their own choice - it was their own invention that the composition of all these measures - clearly there is no prospect through this tax raid so that we can move forward with growth. With this memorial, they give the charismatic shot. And it's a blow underneath the middle class. The economy is now trapped, with the responsibility of the government, in three major problems which interact: The first concerns the gap in loans and deposits with banks of approximately 100 billion. While at the end of 2014 the deposits were about 165 billion, they decreased by 45 billion, resulting in capital controls. It is precisely this gap that causes a great problem for banks to finance growth. The second concerns red loans. Red loans have been launched and have not only been launched by the weakness of the borrowers, but also by the attitude that has been cultivated over the past few years with the "I do not pay" movement, with false promises of sedition, with the supposedly harsh negotiations, with closed banks, with capital controls. And that is another reason why banks cannot finance growth today. Of course, there is also the third problem, which is a great investment deficit. It is the greatest damage that has been done and concerns the question of confidence, because the hunting of investors has removed from Greece serious investors we need and need. Today they have left to deal with the Greek economy only high-risk capital and opportunities and some who are interested in tourism. But that's not enough. So the big thing is to break the cutters, which you of the government have put into the Greek economy today: high taxation, lower incomes, capital controls, financial weakness and recession. [[At this point, the closed doorbell of the speaker's speaking time hits the warning.]] Mr President, I would ask you to give me more time, because this is a very long matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u56	You can continue, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u57	In the current circumstances, this can be done with a massive investment climate and a wave of reforms of specific and effective nature, leading to the reconstruction of the economy, the restructuring of the public sector, a reduction in the operating costs of the state and a reduction in taxation on individuals and businesses. Instead of all kinds of cutters in the development you put in, we propose growth accelerators. I am therefore presenting, today, twenty proposals that can work as the accelerators of growth. The first proposal is the policy of attracting investment. Greece is currently twenty-sixth on the list of twenty-eight countries. We therefore propose a structured investment policy with a simultaneous communication campaign and, finally, a pro-investment climate in society, because all these so-called left krone in the previous period have created a negative, to hostile climate in the Greek society for all kinds of investment. We are proposing substitution for imports with a specific plan, study and programming, national export plans with a focus on branding, the upgrading of Enterprise Greece, but also economic and commercial offices that exist abroad and are currently degraded. We are proposing to liberalise all markets, to strengthen the competition committee and the regulatory authorities, to ensure effective supervision of cartels and the conditions that have been created and do not allow healthy competition. There are still serious steps to be taken to open up the closed professions. In fact, they must be done, even if we need to conflict with small or larger interests. There must also be concrete and selected privatisations, which mark the return to growth, bring investment and create employment, with transparency and contracts under the control of Parliament - that is, what you have dismissed - with revenues that will enhance the sustainability of the insurance system, but also new development initiatives, which will not all go to debt management, as you have committed yourself. Public property and concession contracts must be exploited by maintaining a small percentage of the public-sector company's special purpose, so that it participates in the performance and goodwill of the concession. There should be cooperation between the public and private sectors and ensuring conditions of healthy competition in the banking system. The logic of opening up markets cannot, ladies and gentlemen, be left out of the question of banks. Finally, we must also open up the debate on the banking issue. There must be a reduction in the cost of financing enterprises by banks with reduced interest rates. It is very important that tax mechanisms should be immediately reorganised and strengthened. We don't have to discover America or say it for years without doing it. There are large audit firms that can help us in this direction. There must be a stable and fair tax system and tax incentives must be provided for investment, particularly for those creating employment or for research and technology activities. We are proposing a broadly mandatory application of electronic transactions and a tax-free link to them. We also propose discharge for three years from the pension contributions of young people starting their own business. Setting up the second chance for professionals, businessmen who did not succeed, who did, but are honest. The country must take advantage of the valuable experience they have gained over the years. Clearance of the State's debts with the debts of small and medium-sized enterprises to that effect. Investments in selected areas of national priority, aimed at exploiting the resources of the NSRF, so that we can leverage additional private resources. A specific programme of the ESRB to support the linking of the agri-food sector with the tourist product of each region, as well as the environmental and cultural heritage. Incentives for young scientists to work in the primary sector, especially in innovation, entrepreneurship, their support and free land. Return of five VAT units to producers participating in organised collective schemes. Establishing agricultural oil. For each pair of young farmers insurance contributions to pay only one for the first five years. Establishment of an investment fund for the maximum possible use of funds of EUR 20 billion under the 2014-2020 Programme, which are currently ponding. Relaunch the program "I save at home", with an extension to public and professional buildings, with strong tax incentives. Re-start the competitive process of utilizing national hydrocarbon deposits. Promote the implementation of large gas pipelines and infrastructure projects and the electrical interconnection of the islands. Strengthen'smart cities' actions where technology will improve life and reduce environmental impacts and energy consumption. Reductions in taxation and investment subsidy for enterprises to be converted into ‘green’ enterprises. Establishment of electronic waste management, freight transport, sale of property and information services for citizens. All public decisions and documents enter the Transmission. Upgrade DISCLOSURE, as a universal platform for transparency, and full institutional safeguard. The Secretary-General shall be chosen by a notice and a five-year term. Compulsory application of the Central Electronic Register of Public Contracts for all procurement in the public sector. All certificates for citizens' transactions with the public administration should be made via JEPs and electronically. Public administration with objectives and organic units and indicators to measure their effectiveness. Permanent evaluation of civil servants and its association with faster growth, but also with wage pay. Employment clause in any governmental action or bill on development issues in order to create new jobs. We have an idea: jobs. Strong framework for free collective bargaining. Key training for access to work and entrepreneurship with multiple vocational training paths. Higher education should be a centre of excellence, innovation and extroversion. A new map of higher education for public universities and TEI, according to scientific developments and the country's productive needs. Reform in Greek justice. He needs accelerating his own. It's a brake on growth. Development of startups extroversion. This should be a key component of the strategic plan. Our aim is to make Greece's startups a key service provider of high value added services, for example, development of software. In this way we will export goods and services, not the scientists who produce them. To achieve this it is necessary to create a tax framework favourable to startups, with reduced tax rates or increased depreciation rates in the first years of operation. Simplify procedures and increase for newly-born enterprises the turnover limit for VAT exemption. Twenty-five, small and medium-sized enterprises policy. This requires a national plan. Main issues are the best possible use of European programmes in dynamic sectors of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, a framework of concrete incentives for the development of modern forms of synergies. We have a very large number of small and medium-sized companies and we need to motivate them to unite in order to increase their potential. More cooperation with development institutions and universities, public and private, to identify and develop products and services. And, of course, a reduction in the tax regime, because this is directly linked to the oxygen that small and medium-sized enterprises need so that they can grow and produce. To achieve this, we must create a climate of confidence for the country. That is where we must begin, in order to stop the constant uncertainty and instability, to move forward in the restructuring and write-down of public debt. Not with promises after 2018. We will continue to claim support from European Socialists, in the direction of further reducing public debt. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] They have an obligation for our European partners to meet their commitments to the country since 2012. You were not able to implement the 2012 EUROGROUP decision one year now. The middle class must be mobilised, which is now bent on by the poorer undertaking. Ladies and gentlemen, neither the right of elite's interests nor the populism and divisive logic of the SYRIZA - ANEL can express the need for a strong middle-class. And growth without middle-class simply doesn't work. The new effort, the other policy we are working on, must be based on a new social contract, a new agreement on a radical and fair modernisation, with rights and obligations for everyone, with the market and the state turning from a competitive to a creative model, open competition and control, with a development alarm for the restructuring of our productive base. Production of products, products with quality and identity and the creation of new quality jobs. These are the objectives, with the support of extroversion, innovation and exploitation of the comparative advantages the country has in primary production, tourism, energy, the environment, transport, the Greek company, the Greek small and medium-sized enterprise. We can create a great stream of creativity, extremism, national self-confidence, patriotic business. That must be our new goal. And this objective relates to every Greek, every Greek and above all to the new generation. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have stressed that the country needs a national line, a comprehensive exit plan, to become Greece, from a demanding country, a country that will emit knowledge, creativity, productivity. But this course has a prerequisite: a strong progressive alliance, a reborn democratic, progressive party, which can vision of this new Greece, fair prosperity, make it a political pretext. They cannot guarantee this, nor can those who have bankrupt the country, because it is quite simply the two sides of the same currency. It needs a strong, truly progressive political force, which will create an atmosphere of confidence in foreign and Greek investors, without unpleasant surprises. He needs a power that really unites the Greeks. And it can bring better days. To bring genuine dignity. Because the words have lost their meaning in recent years with SYRIZA - ANEL. We have to answer the question: 'Development for whom and with whom?' We, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Reconciliation have the original software. No one can hack it. And we are committed to responding to this need of Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u58	Mr Arvanitides has the floor, then Mrs Kefalidou closes the first cycle of honourable Members. Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from January 2015 until today, we have been through two stages of governance: The first stage of the proud negotiation, which was cut off by imposing capital controls on the banking system for the first time, a measure that hit all companies in the country horizontally regardless of industry, activity or size. The second stage, which began in October 2015 and closed as soon as the first assessment was completed the day before yesterday, a stage in which everything had been frozen, as did the market. An exception was made for the new ESRB, the delayed submission of the Greek proposal for the Juncker package and some chips, which were talking about the launch of the economy and the rain of billions. In neither of these two stages one will find a plan, an incentive, economic development policies, but only real measures that destroy production and entrepreneurship. The money that the government says has put on the market by the NSRP not only falls far short of reality, but also mainly lead the economy to growth through increased demand and not real growth, in the sense of stable expansion of production capacity. It's like throwing newspapers in the fireplace and waiting for you to get warm. That's not growth. That's just growing up. Although we have heard Mr Stathakis several times promise to present the development strategy plan of the country, so far no one has seen it. So because I cannot criticise what is not there, I would like to put forward a number of proposals which are likely to be useful. In an economy that in a few years lost 25% of GDP of the primary goal is to rebuild it by changing model. Why, if you repeat the same mistakes, how is it possible to deal with the situation, since this policy has brought you up here? The period of low interest rates, overconsumption and mainly imported products and construction, private and public, has passed unreturned. Before planning incentives to boost entrepreneurship, you need to see how we are going to compose the country's GDP again, which areas will play and what role and decide which sectors will be developed and, above all, will support solid growth from now on. To develop sectoral policies by industry, even by product, according to the markets, in order to direct, motivation, entrepreneurs, surely to investors. Combine the strengthening of production with products of export orientation, innovation and high added value, which will improve the commercial balance and return to Greece the produced wealth. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for every grand that falls on the Greek market - because we have trained people to say 'give money on the market' - at the same time over 70% returns back to the one who sells the products on the Greek market. And it's definitely not about Greek businesses. They're imported. We are buying jobs and jobs from other countries, unfortunately. Combine low taxation with an employment clause so that investment can bring jobs stable and well-paid. Only then will growth be for Greek citizens. Create a serious second chance frame. Look, who's going to try from here to this country? The people who remember that they and their families have been destroyed, that their VDUs are already destroyed, that they owe the IKA, the funds, the IKA, that they're afraid of stopping them when they get out? Are they going to try? If they do not attempt, of course, to others who see them and fear them, do you think that they will be the people who will lead the float of growth? Unless everything is solved, funds, funds from abroad, the invisible investors, who will come to this country, to develop every sector. Thus, we will convince young people to attempt, without fear, and to exploit the wealth of their knowledge and skills. Co-operate with self-government, the market, chambers, institutions and - finally - the universities. Produce knowledge to produce innovation and produce products. We had also criminalised the subject of research at universities, the interconnection of universities with the labour market. Stop believing the public holds the absolute knowledge of everything. Create horizontal labour structures and joint actions. Respect honest entrepreneurs but also those who are trying to withstand the crisis and give the image of a serious state. Go ahead with the privatizations, protecting the public interest and existing industrial relations. Privatisations make sense, when they help to improve the functioning of the market, to provide quality services, to liberalise competition, to strengthen public revenues. The logic that is being developed - his logic of "bargain-glue", "I cried a little, but I finally deprived it" or "I've saved it" - only problems can create. Minister, I also deserve to present a little picture of northern Greece, some of the recent survey by the Chamber of Crafts of Thessaloniki, in order to understand the conditions in which small and medium-sized enterprises are currently active: Recruitment for the future of the business feels 82% of the respondents. In the first quarter of 2016, the average decline in the cigarette ranges to 34%. 32% fails to pay its obligations to the funds. The 35% estimate is likely to lead to a company's lock-up in the year, while 62% of consumers had fewer incomes in the last six months and 75% of families already have an unemployed member. In fact, redundancies relate to one-and-a-half persons per undertaking on average since the beginning of the year. This is the picture that we need to change and you should change if we want to have tomorrow. Mr President, I would like very little time to say a few things about shipping, perhaps a couple of minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, in my short time, I want to speak again with proposals and this time for one of the most important and traditional pillars of the Greek economy. Shipping is a key economic size for the country and the privileged area, which will determine the sustainable development of Greece over the next few decades. It symbolises the external balance of payments and job creation. It makes it one of the most dynamic factors of GDP, with a strong multiplier effect on the wider economy. The economic crisis requires more than ever that our shipping policy is based on the utilization of the leading role of Greek shipping as a strong factor for the formation of both global and European shipping policy. Instead of being reassured, we should work, not to maintain, but to strengthen its role, in conditions of liberalisation and intensified international competition. Consequently, the central objectives of national maritime policy should lead to further strengthening of the competitiveness of Greek shipping, the continuing education and maritime upgrading of maritime capacity, the attracting of young people to the maritime profession. Maritime navigation is a solution to ever-increasing unemployment, to the regeneration of the maritime repair industry, marine technology, innovation of entrepreneurship and maritime tourism, with respect for man, the environment and within the European framework for blue development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. Mrs Kefalidou and then the Minister have the floor. Come on, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk to you about my own place, about Drama and about the region of East Macedonia and Thrace, the huge problems and the challenges it faces. GDP ranks the last region in the country. So I realized that the problem is so big and so universal, that it would be a hopeless effort, it would look like an attempt to talk to you about ways to improve vegetables in Sahara. That is why I decided to tell you three live examples. Example one. In Drama, the most important anonymous company of innovative activities in state-of-the-art technologies operates, with huge turnover for Greek data, a real diamond, not only for our city, but also for the country, and there is no Greek or foreign official who has visited Drama and has not gone from this company. Since last July its productive activity has been shrinking, because in Greece of capital controls it could not function with the quality standards it had set itself. Clients of large houses and large foreign companies. And for those of you who don't know it, you bother to discover it, to see what it means to all of us innovative production Greece. The company is ‘RAYCAP’. It's a very big high-tech company that shields American airports. The product, which is the sole product of the patent, is anti-ceranic protection. Sadly, not Greek, though, huh? Example two. A three-part export company, which is all three employees and has no employees. These people create high precision software, which is given for medical applications in Europe and in America exclusively. Annual turnover EUR 75,000. They cost around 14,000 euros, add 13,000 euros, so the tax on profits is 26%, fill in a tax advance last year, advance tax for this year, trade fee. So net profits left for distribution are EUR 29.650. So on an annual basis, 9,900 for each partner. On a monthly basis? 850 euros. Of this, I really want to ask all of us how a scientist, a professional, a family leader, who, if we think about it, is exporting and bringing pure money to the country, must also pay ENPIA, must also pay a contribution of solidarity, can live his family. Find me if it is legally possible to have a decent living. Example third. An anonymous company active in the area of renewable energy, a peak activity for the country, has a turnover of 100,000 euros before tax. Add tax of 29%, dividend tax of 15%, add the solidarity levy, insurance contributions on the turnover, HPHIA for the property of the company, at the end of the year there is 9,000 euros, without calculating the advance tax payment for the following year. So can someone, with this data, invest in the country? These examples that I mention are true stories of daily Greek madness. And don't hurry, gentlemen of the government, say that it's not your fault. The Capital Controls and the suffocating and uncertain environment eighteen months of endless negotiation has your own brand name. And no one says that you are to blame for what is happening in the country and for the intrinsic pathogens from the birth of the Greek state. But you're responsible. And you are responsible because, while you knew very well that this situation exists, while you knew that you cannot manage it effectively, you have sold, in your knowledge, seaweeds for silk ribbons and, after you have reached the country in no way, overcoming it, today you are doing or pretending to turn a hundred eighty degrees - not this other Mr. Tsipras, the thirty-sixteen - to rule, dealing with your frauds. In pure Greek, that means deception. You are responsible for the fact that only a few projects have been announced under the new NSRP 2014-2020. You are responsible for the fact that, since the day you take over, you are negotiating and you are already ruling from the other day. These are the words of the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, who said: 'Now, after seventeen months of government, we are entering a cycle of governance. He's closing the negotiation cycle. The Left is now tested in Greece.’ And you, you rule a country, which is in the emergency, with a turtle rate. You are responsible for the dramatic situation in which the commercial, business, scientific and rural world is located. As a Greek woman, believe me, I would like the negotiation to have been closed with a good deal. What we have, however, is a bad agreement, a wildlife agreement and nothing has been done, but no debate on investment. I would just remind you that in the first memorandum, the Europeans themselves had accepted the logic that Greece needs structural measures, but also investment. Now, all this has gone for a walk. And I ask you: what growth? Which clubs and super-closters? Are these missing from Greece? What do you have to say to all of this world that puts a padlock on its business every day? Are you going to talk about business clusters? What do you have to say about scientists and professionals who take their teams and go abroad? Will you tell them about the prosperous business climate in Greece? In Greece the taxes, the two and a half thousand illegally appointed, the poster and irrevocable officials? Or are you going to talk to them about the Ghost Organizations that are still maintained in an unharmed Greece? The question is: Can the country come out of the disinvestment? The answer is 'yes', and I think it is the proposals that the President of the Democratic Integration, Mr Gennamas, has just tabled. If the government insists on sticking to its ideas, if it expects problems to be solved by development law, which is now fifteen months waiting for him in Parliament, from the new NRP of heavy bureaucracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u62	Mrs. Kefalidou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u63	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. ...if you wait for it to be solved from the Junker package, which, in general, will take about two years to make any funding, then let us all welcome the development that has passed, but did not stand in the country of the parallel universe "SYRIZA". It is landed in other countries, in neighbouring countries, in Balkan countries and in Cyprus, which are welcomed and introduced there by Greek businesses and professionals, who are unfortunately you. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u64	Minister, you have heard too much. It goes without saying that beforehand I will take extra time. I hope you can answer that. Of course you have secondary and tritology. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me not speak about world change, because the criticism that has been made is that it has been made in a year and a half of such world changes, catastrophic, anything that has been made with so much trouble in recent years, because a new framework has collapsed and developed, which naturally prevents investment and is a combination of tax storms, incompetent government, inability to compete in our neighbouring countries - I have learned that Bulgaria, Cyprus and Turkey have a model of development policy - and various other interesting points. Let me remind you that we received the Greek economy a year ago, having recorded not only 3.5% predicted growth, which we 'devastated', but - if I remember correctly - and 4.5% of the surplus. So, after you take off the balance, use both sides of the balance. Ten billion growth, Mr Kutsuko, but also 4.5% of GDP. Both. Make the balance. So you're putting growth in it. Let's assume it was compatible. I doubt that there was this possibility, but put on both sides of the balance. If you put one in, you're getting a little high on SYRIZA's cost. It is better to have a pre-registration of the costs of continuing the previous policy. Let me remind you: 'The toughest Memorandum is the third Memorandum'. May I remind you of the numbers? Forty billion was the financial adjustment of the first memorandum. Forty billion. Something reminds us of this in the Democratic Compact. The second memorandum was eighteen billion. The third heavy memorandum - I naturally recognise the cumulative argument - is six billion. So you understand that the arguments about a catastrophic displacement do not work. With this data, the government is negotiating. You can judge her as you wish. The print, however, of the negotiation is a given one. It's the July deal. Lower the surpluses, refinanced the fifty of the eighty six billion. It is refinancing the debt we had in '15, '16, '17, '18, that is what the country was called upon to pay for the next 30 years. That's the deal. This has allowed slight surpluses, what we agreed on in '15, '16, '17, '18'. This has, in turn, allowed a milder financial adjustment of 1% a year. This agreement has been reached, this agreement has been put into the people's judgement, this agreement is being implemented. So it's a softer adjustment. No one wants taxes, but these are the softest data we have brought, extracted from the new agreement, which we signed in July. Secondly, this agreement has the softest elements. On the other hand, the economy had to deal with the problem of developments and, in particular, the deterioration of some data from capital control. I hear that very loudly. I am not convinced of the result, because I would remind you that following the imposition of capital controls, which were done in good time, if I remember correctly, the Government, the Bank of Greece and all the stakeholders took a number of measures in the next few weeks in order not to affect tourism. How was tourism not affected? If not all these immediate measures had been taken to lift restrictions on airlines, tourist agents, hotels, the use of credit cards by tourists, etc., would there not have been a huge impact on tourism? Secondly, would the supply and system in the country not have been affected, if not all the restrictions on import trade had been lifted, respecting a very simple principle - which has been applied since the first day - the liberalisation and smooth operation of imports, since they fall within the history of each individual company, which has decommissioned the entire system, why was the transaction only done with the branch of your bank, without having to resort to the Bank of Greece for foreign exchange permits? These measures, therefore, focused obviously on the smooth operation of enterprises. The measures were specific and concerned tourism, shipping, import and export. So the idea that, suddenly, even from a very difficult process, the necessary measures were not taken to normalise the economy, that would not have had the fingerprint at the end of the year. We would have a great deal of recession if this were not normalized through a series of actions which we should have done and which we should have done. The third question is: 'Individual government and the USSR'. The recession apparently restrained because, anyway we did well in the NSRC, too. I have the final account, which is 108.5%. All the programs of the previous period are privatizations. No one can steal this success from us. I would remind you that in June you told us that we could not close it on 31 December without an extension: 'No way! Why don't we make an extension? How will the government absorb them with all these liquidity problems we have had? How will it absorb all these resources in the last quarter of the year?’. We did everything right. We did it. All programmes have been rejected. This success cannot be obtained from the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u66	Minister, excuse me. Before you continue, I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-three students and students and two educational sessions from the 7th Kifisias Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you, Minister. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u67	I'm making the final statement of the absorption of the NRP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u68	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Constantinople, you'll talk later. You have a dentistry. Don't listen, cich. I've given you double the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u70	Data is data. You can turn to what you want and of course see the European balance sheet just as formulated by the Community and the dear friend Mrs Kretsou. Now we're going to the new ESRB. Let me remind you here - and I say this directly - that we do not continue with the same policy that you planned. That's for granted. Are you criticising us, why don't we just implement the same programs you planned? We're changing it. I suppose that's why we're here to design better programs, more compatible with today's data and the current needs of the Greek economy. So this is clear, and it is also about the criticism we have received of the EUR 2.5 billion in the ‘household savings’ programme, for the PPPs and for many other programmes. Let me remind you of one by one about what the new ESRB does. First of all, did it take time to get started, or does it just move on? According to our data, 25% of the new ESDP programmes have been launched. At the end of the year the balance sheet will be 50% of the start of programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u71	Will you testify for this, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u72	Sure. I'll give you the board with the invitations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u73	I would ask the Minister to take a photo and be immediately distributed so that Members can be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u74	I would remind you of the programmes that have been launched. Firstly, the social fund, EUR 1 billion. Secondly, we have the four programmes which have already been published and come from the Secretariat-General for Industry and the State Secretary for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises plus those which are being procured. Thirdly, the large programme that we started yesterday for the environment and that concerns 500 million. The launch of the new ESRB therefore follows a coordinate procedure. Again, in comparison with Europe, we are the first country to have a full establishment of the management authorities of the new ESDP, the regulatory framework and that has started at such a pace. Let me say, however, that we are not going to go on or on about what we have changed. We're starting with the PPPs. This was the design of the previous government, PPP everywhere, in all regions. A certain way of meeting needs. We have changed the project as a whole and adapted it to the new European data and targets set for 2020 by the Commission: 50% of the waste is recycled at source and 50% move on to this treatment. That's the type of PPP. This design we are implementing today. [[At this point the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] So the PPPs that are compatible with our new design, that is, the one that covers 50% of this process, are going on as far as I know. There's no parole. We signed Western Macedonia. We are talking about advanced continental issues. There is a dialogue and a strong renegotiation for the Peloponnese PPP, just to make it compatible with what I have suggested. So we are barely moving towards stronger measures to manage waste by 2020 to have 50% recycling at the source - a huge section - and, at the same time, to proceed with all the necessary programmes that are compatible with the second treatment, whether it is PPP or anything else. We have no idea what this is about. The 'I save at home' programme is changing it. And we also need to solve a problem that the previous governments have inherited, if I remember correctly. You published the program. Applications have been made. There's about twenty thousand who couldn't afford to be covered. We must therefore also provide a solution for those who have stayed since the previous period. And we need to see how they absorb resources to complete what they wanted and at the same time to have a redesign of this programme. We will proceed with this next period, I repeat. Development law: Where should I start and where should I finish? First of all, I would remind you of what the previous governments have done with the development laws. What we received. 2004 Development Law: About five thousand investment projects. Actively about one/3, one thousand four hundred. It costs about 800 million. 2011 is only twenty-nine out of a thousand four hundred. Total incomplete projects, contractualised debts and all related 5.5 billion. Second element. Availability of resources: All frozen by the Commission for reasons of the corruption of the past, 2011, 2012 and the rest. Thirdly, you raised his issue from where to fund the new development law. How much money was there for the investment law in 2015? Fifty million. So I repeat the picture: First, 5.5 billion at a chaotic stage. We didn't know who's there, who's inexistent. Secondly, frozen resources from the Commission. Thirdly, planned funding of only 50 million. What did we do? Three things. Firstly, we unleashed the money by making changes to operation - accepted on the other hand - by strengthening transparency, etc. We started a process of speeding up the cleansing of the old developmenters and arrived at what we will have next week, in the development law, in which we have the transitional provisions on how the old developmenters are closed, how they are repaid, what the process and the others are. So the next week closes the old developmental ones, now classified, and with very clear procedures, and at the same time starts the new development. We are also putting strong mechanisms for speeding up all this with an external partner system, which you will see next week. Next item. Because they are or are not invested in this country. I listened carefully to all the analysis of Mrs. Gennamas. The listing of problems which hamper investment is given and is well known. Of course it's public administration. We want better public administration, more effective, faster, more transparent, etc. It's not SYRIZA's fault. Secondly, of course, we want a faster justice system because it paralyses the country's economic life, five years, seven years, three years and so on. Of course, we want cheaper energy costs. Remind me what the situation in our energy sector has been, what was the plan, what was the cost, the energy cost, of these plans over the last decade? Cheap production, though lignite, a chaotic system of development of the RES very expensive, with a very precise structure, incorporation of natural gas, but in a way that has not been transparent, what market could work to help, in fact, the development of industry and so on, under such energy planning, with huge problems and, of course, further changes. Therefore the picture that growth has been braked because some government has appeared and accumulated problems in a system that has strong structural problems, structured, built, inspired - I would say - by the previous governments is foreseeable. And that is what the present government is called upon to solve. It must be one by one decapitated the accumulated structural problems, with deep areas, which it must do in each of these accumulated problems. So let me turn to some of the institutional issues that the government has started and is moving forward - step by step. First, licensing. This is a huge, thorny, structural problem, based on the following: firstly, the lack of spatial planning, the logbook, zones, the self-evident ones, which have accumulated from the past. Secondly, bureaucratic process of licensing and preventive control at all. This is a complex system, which on the one hand tries to heal, to have a strong care - Greece has it and we will continue it - to be sensitive to the environment - 28% NATURA etc., as we are not a flat country - archaeological care and so on. On the other hand, however, the whole of the other can be moved. And what this government is doing - and it will continue to do, of course, has taken important steps since the previous one - is to simplify the procedure. The promise is given: For a very large part of private enterprises it will suffice one day to set up businesses and three days to license them. One day for the establishment, three days for their license. We are at the final stage for four major categories - sectors, which covered a significant proportion of the Greek economy, in cooperation with the World Bank. Simplification of licensing in selected sectors now covers the food and beverage processing sector - that is to say, these four areas in June - the health stores, tourism and mining activities. So we are at a final stage where obviously at three - not mining activities - there will be major, additional changes. Secondly, we are moving towards the creation of business services centres, the one stop shop, which will give a huge impetus and convenience. Thirdly, we are discussing a great deal of questions of preliminary compromises, which will prevent the courts from having recourse to them. The whole area of indebted enterprises will be a starting point, which they owe to both the public and the banks at the same time. And we are also discussing a number of other measures which are trying to change part of these accumulated problems. Let us call them'structural changes'. Why would investment in Greece come? There is one picture that you have given that investment prefers to go to countries with 10% profit tax. Three are these countries: Bulgaria, Cyprus, Ireland. 90% of investment in Europe does not go there. 90% of investment goes to France, Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands and so on. I repeat, for once, that with all that you have described, we are below the European average in business taxation. I repeat, with all that you described, we are below the average! So we all understand that there are other factors, much more important, because foreign investors choose one particular country against another. I think there too, if we get away from a micro-political controversy, we'll agree. These are other factors that are more important. So the idea that first of all we have to follow something like this, and that is the solution to the country's development problem, is misleading. I declare it to all tons. It is misleading to say that if we follow Bulgaria's model, we will have increased investments, because my answer is very simple: we will have the type of investments going to Bulgaria and not going to Germany, France, Italy and all of them. And we don't want them. We want another model, more compatible with what we want, which will be activities, high added value investments, much more compatible with Greek data. We don't have a cheap workforce or we won't have one. We have young scientific potential, educated, capable of attracting high added value investments. So the idea remains. Our development strategy is a Greek economy, which will obviously make the most of it, but through major innovative changes, its traditional advantages, tourism, shipping, agri-foodstuffs, etc. Obviously, it must turn its productive system towards exploiting this potential, so production and innovation. These are two spearheads, and this job is done by the new development law. It's a development law that has nothing to do with the previous ones. I repeat, it has nothing to do with the previous ones! It's a very different development law. He's got eight pillars. He is oriented and identified with the encouragement of production and innovation. It is geared to small and medium-sized enterprises and not to large traditional investments. I would remind you, to have a picture, that with the previous development 4% of investments took over 60% of resources and about 70% were two branches, tourism and the RES. It doesn't make any sense. We must go to a model that is much more focused, much differentiated and more compatible with the emphasis, which we must give to what I have suggested. So we're talking about a very different development law. In conclusion, I should like to point out that the government in a year and a half is making a fund, as Mrs Gennamas said, on this subject. And the fund includes not only the way in which it managed the economic situation in everything concerning the operation of businesses last year, the support and encouragement of a new investment cycle, the ones that had gone ahead - I am thinking of the strategic investments and the balance sheet of the eight strategic investments - last year, not only the development of a framework that changes the institutional tools in a way that is compatible with it. It includes the design and way in which the new NSRP will operate, the way and the design for exploiting the new development law, the major reforms, which need to be implemented in simplifying bureaucracy and structural changes, in order to create a business-friendly environment. The present Government will, however, be judged on the major issue, namely the mobilisation of the private and public investment sector in a way which is very different from the past, compatible with the prospects of the Greek economy on a sustainable basis and will not repeat any of the malicious things we inherit from the past. This different way of development, which is much more compatible with the country's human resources, environmental data and the prospect of a strong extroversion of the economy, is the goal of the government. We will serve him, and in this way we will walk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much. We continue with the parliamentary representatives. Mr. Loverdos is first in a row to speak, but due to miserable obligations he has asked to speak as soon as he can return to the House. So the next parliamentary representative in the series is Mr Santorinios, who is a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA. If you want to talk now, it's good. If you don't want to, we're waiting for Mr. Loverdo and you're talking later. As you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u76	I will speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u77	Here, Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impressive that while the domestic and European scenes have changed a number of things, you are reluctantly coming back to a rhetoric that only aims to counterpopulation. You're talking with newspaper titles, with a cheetah. This is not the way you are helping to establish a climate of confidence in our country. And you forget that self-criticism is also needed in politics. And the truth is that only by the President-in-Office has I heard self-criticism about what has happened to all these projects of the ESDP, such as, for example, health centers...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u79	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u80	I didn't hear any self-criticism. Maybe we should listen later. I heard a counterproposal. Of course, I would say that the counter-proposal is in the positive direction. However, it must be based on the current data, as is generally the case in the European environment. And I think that a lot of these are things that we either have legislated or are going to legislate. But of course, the admission is also needed. And I don't think you've admitted any of your mistakes. We have shown you during the debate in the House on taxation and insurance, that the reform adopted has characteristics of social justice and redistribution in favour of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. It is characteristic that with tax reform 92% of the professionals will pay less tax, and most of the same is true of insurance contributions, especially for professionals who are currently insured in the OAU. We are critical that the indirect taxes of 1.8 billion - which you had voted on in the summer of 2015, we must not forget - divide them into many productive sectors of the country and tax, as you say, what is moving. Until we heard from Mr. Koutsouko that we got VAT at 13% and took him to 24%. That's neo-male. I don't think we got the VAT at 13%. In 23% we got him, not forgetting ourselves. But tell us this: do you think that companies, especially households, would bear 10% of the cost of electricity and water? Would this levy not lead to an excessive increase in the operating costs of businesses and would it not result in a dramatic decrease in the purchasing power of Greek citizens? We have chosen what we together had voted on, 1% of indirect taxes, instead of putting it to 10% in electricity and water, to disperse costs to more small taxes in order to reduce the per capita burden on citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in your question you are talking about increasing the rate of job losses. It is clear that you have not bothered to read the details of the 'ERGAN' programme and especially for April. According to these figures, April is the third month in a row showing a positive balance in the private sector employment flows. In particular, the comparison of the data of the two months, April 2015 and April 2016 shows a positive performance of ten thousand four hundred additional eight additional jobs for 2016. It is also noteworthy that the April 2016 performance is the highest recorded positive performance from 2001 until today. Listen to this, it's important. But what is really terrible and surprising is that you leave us in your question - and even a moment ago - on the closure of the 2007-2013 ESDP programme, and on the course of the implementation of the new programming framework. Ladies and gentlemen, in my village I am told that 'the house of the hanged man does not speak of rope'. We managed to close the previous NSRP with a absorption of more than 100%. The Minister gave the painting. This is the overall document, which, although Mr Korokolis signs it, Mr Constantinople, but it is from the National Coordination Authority. You brought unsigned paintings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u81	It's on the Ministry's Internet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u82	Here in the table says the absorption was 108.5%. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So last year, we brought Greece first into absorption, while you had the sixth place of absorption. We are the first country of the European Union to complete the control and management system in 2015, so that we are the first country to request payment for the new programming period. 25% of the programme has already been activated, and by the end of September 50% of the programme will be activated, amounting to 9 billion. And since you're questioning it, you only talked about the ENANEC, the 270 million. You did not talk about the ERDF, you did not talk about the Regional Programmes, you did not talk about the Social Fund. The Minister has submitted a list of all these programmes, which have been activated. And more will be activated. You forget, of course, that you had loaded the previous programme by 150% - you forget that - so that we have a heavy project legacy that comes, whether as transportable or as a bridge in the new ESDP. This is the legacy you left in the new programming framework. The new development law, therefore, has already completed the consultation phase and will be coming to the committees next week. The characteristic of this law is that it gives tangible and realistic the development guidelines that the Greek economy will have to follow in the coming years in order to become competitive. It does not work with the model of development laws which our country has known so far and which were governed by the logic of'strengthening existing trends', without aiming at a clear development model for the country. It's what Mrs. Gennimata described before. He told us growth was on the autopilot. On the autopilot, you had growth, because you never took it into your hands. What's coming? What do we fund? It is characteristic that 72% of the absorption of previous projects went to only two branches. So, what was your development plan? Let us not remind ourselves - I have heard it from Mrs Gennamas - the employment clause, which I fully agree that there must be any development action. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the previous development laws with the employment clause, each job cost 323,000 euros. You have put on very precise employment clauses, ladies and gentlemen! You probably weren't funding employment. You financed your friends. This is also apparent from the element mentioned before the Minister. Because I do not want to abuse time - although I must, Mr President, take a little more - I will close with this. Ladies and gentlemen, the results of the recent Eurogroup give another valid incentive to relaunch growth in our country. The dose that has been secured is clearly higher than that planned and will allow the government to repay approximately 3.5 billion outstanding debts to private individuals, thus highlighting liquidity in the market. In any case, with the closure of the evaluation, we are moving forward to a new, more optimistic era for our country, with the primary aim of improving the indicators of production and sustainability, for society and for citizens and not for your few and chosen friends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much. The time was six plus three minutes, which will be given to everyone else, so there won't be any complaints. My friend, Mr. Santorinios, said that I was the one who made self-criticism. It's true, but I didn't exactly say that. But I'll say it now to bring it back. The ESRB is not only judged by its absorption - it is also judged by it - but is mainly judged by its performance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u84	That's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u85	Yeah. I mentioned, for example, that we exempted the country from Maastricht and managed to fund hospitals and welfare institutions. But what happened? Then, while we asked for a programme to be implemented, we opened the faucet and the rest, the later ministers of all the parties, did everything they could in this direction, so that today we cannot serve these institutions. We cannot serve them and there is a problem. The same thing is happening in other areas, but it is not my time and my responsibility to develop it. That is why I mentioned it to Minister Stathakis in order to keep in mind that this should be taken into account in the Yunger or the ESDP. I'm talking about an example. For if it is just to be absorbed, then we are leading things to a dead end. That's what I said and I'm explaining it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, may I have the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u87	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, I have said exactly what you have said. We have not done any evaluation - that is what you said - of the results we have had so far. It's not just health centers, it's schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u89	But I said, 'and in other areas'. Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u90	We've built wardrobes without staff. And, finally, if our goal is to make wardrobes, I don't think that serves growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u91	Deal. That is why I said that, at least, I, in the capacity of the Member, would like to hear from the Minister what is going to happen with Yoonker and what is going to happen with the NRP or what it plans, anyway. Thank you. Mrs Kefaloyannis, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the most anti-reformist, the most anti-development government in post-population. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you don't care about growth, you don't believe it. You only believe in state intervention, state control, the "State master", which controls everything and everyone. So don't pretend, don't spill crocodile tears for something you don't want, because you're just not going to convince anyone. Because growth means private initiative, competitiveness, investment, less state, more creativity and freedom, words that only give you a revulsion. Tell us, finally, what do you think? Reveal yourself, do not play something that you are not, for the sole purpose of staying in power. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the SYRIZA - ANEL Government since January 2015 has had unprecedented negative events, resulting in the collapse of the real economy and the continuing deterioration of the quality of life of citizens. The measures adopted, the permanent memorandum, the cutter, the sinking into the recession have only one fault, that is, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Suffices to look at elements of the Greek Statistical Authority, but also of approved international organisations, to see that in just a year and a half the economic indicators collapsed. The recession is increasing, liquidity has decreased, investment is being suppressed, public revenues are being reduced, both in the state and in the funds. At the same time, the government has been dealing with wishes, promises, and has been moving propaganda by making vacant statements aimed at communicating and distorting reality. Minister, both you and the other members of the government have earned you the right to say what you want without a word. You've achieved a unique surplus, that of propaganda. The statements made by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stathakis, who, every few minutes, assures that the development strategy of the country will be submitted, as well as the statements made by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, that he will present, of course, the development plan to the institutions, so that we can enter the virtuous circle, as he usually likes to say, in his positions. Mr Stathakis continues to disorientate with his positions by concealing the real tragic situation that he created with his proliferation, both for the country's development plan and for the large investment projects of either Enterprise Greece or the Directorate-General for Private Investment. Great investment projects of vital importance to the Greek economy, which are still pending for uncertain reasons. The words "investments" and "development" are the shortest anecdotes in Greece of SYRIZA - ANLE. It is also worth wondering how, after so long, the maturitying procedures for these investments, which should have been completed for at least one year, have not been completed. Privatisation and large investment, which should be the starting point for the crisis, have the potential to create thousands of direct and indirect jobs, are in the drawers of the government and we are constantly finding their full payoff. And as if that is not enough, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has subjugated all public property for ninety years. Your failure will also be paid by our grandsons, and that is tragic. At the same time, every type of business has been strangled by increasing corporate tax rates, increasing insurance contributions, increasing tax advances to 100%, continuing tax increases, direct and indirect, such as VAT and HISY. Banks have increased borrowing interest rates and have stopped financing investment projects. They are unable to examine cases of investment due to severe closeness in their liquidity following the imposition of capital controls and the recurring government policy that cost their capital adequacy. Minister, would you like to tell us when you intend to proceed with the lifting of the restrictions imposed on capital controls? You have dissolved the majority of the exporting companies and the country's productive business web. Political responsibility for bank closure, political responsibility for capital control and financial suffocation will suffocate you forever. And, in a parallel world, the Minister for Development has said and said for a year and a half that the new development law will be tabled and voted on in Parliament. The Minister's first statement last year said the new law would be passed by the end of June 2015. Well, it's only been a year since! Mr Stathakis, therefore, you are earning the title of the most provocative Minister of Development! I want to think you won't be the most ineffective. Ladies and gentlemen, our comments on the new development law will have - I hope - the opportunity to present them to Parliament in the next few days, although since the Minister keeps the timetable this timeline and brings the new development law to Parliament. I would, however, like to refer to the investment projects, which have been submitted with a request for scrutiny to the Directorate-General for Strategic and Private Investment of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, and which are awaiting repayment. The competent Department of the Ministry shall continue to prevent and transfer the payments of approved and completed projects to an unknown time horizon. The Minister says the debts amount to 5.5 billion euros. This is false, since we are all aware that more than 85% of the approved investment projects under the two previous development laws are not currently being implemented due to the government's denial of entrepreneurship and business activity in general. Minister, can you tell us what the real number of projects you are implementing is? In addition, misinformation on the absorption of the ESRB is revealed. Minister Stathakis takes the view that 4 billion will be channelled to the Greek economy by the NSRF, 8 billion from the EIF, 5.6 billion from the Yunker project and Deputy Minister Haritsis states that Greece is the first country in Europe to activate the NSRF 2014-2020. The reality, however, revealed by the National Reform Programme, which sent your Ministry, the Ministry of Finance, to the European Commission's Services, is different. I put forward the relevant document for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Olga Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One year after the activation of the new NRP 2014-2020, the money that Greece is entitled to and reach EUR 19 billion remains untapped, far from the real economy. Only 1.88% has been absorbed to this day. And I have to tell you that this is not all, because tourism that has been a motor for the development of the country is being exaggerated, its dynamics are evaporated and the government is unable to understand the policies we have designed with hard work in previous years. This is the situation, Minister. And for this unprecedented anti-development policy, the only, exclusive responsibility is borne by your government. You will go through history as the government that restored the recession, which brought closed banks, which wiped out the free professionals who broke the middle class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u93	Ilias Panagiotaros, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. We heard before the President of the Democratic Incorporation in her speech also referring to the new social contract, the new social agreement with the people and reminded us of old days where the parties of the New Democracy and PASOK bi-group were constantly referring to a social contract and finally we saw the social contracts of these two parties that led this place forty years now. The PASOK has raised a topical question today about the postponement of the development plan for the country. Let us look at the recent, but also the ultimate past of post-multipleism, the governance and the dissolution of the country from bipartisanism. What should we want to do first? The hundred billion euro scandals? The billions of euros? The Seas, starting from the parties of the New Democracy and PASOK, which each owes around EUR 250 million? Remember the loans given to friends and acquaintances? Remember the famous ETVA, the Greek Industrial Development Bank, which literally blew it in the air by giving loans to friends who took the money and instead of doing factories, made them villas, houses, houses or anything else and made them abroad? Remember the stock market scandal, which in frenzy at the time of furniture and false growth, Greeks - and not just - lost hundreds of billions of euros on the Stock Exchange? Remember the 'toxic' bonds, which were completely arbitrarily played by the government in the reserves of the funds, the insurance agencies, the universities and the hospitals, and huge sums were lost there too? Or should we remember the first Memorandum where, with the undocumented Jeffrey Papandreou, we saw him relaunching his career policy from Patras yesterday, I borrowed Greece EUR 120 billion in order to repay private banks? It turned a private debt into a mortgage debt of an entire country. Success, of course, only existed for the "logues", for the various "Gruises" of PASOK and New Democracy, who as untrained and unactive professionally managed and made huge assets. It would be very interesting, in addition to a few cases, which we know, to see other cases, that people who didn't work a second in their lives, who were simply glued or something else, became very successful professionally. From the result, therefore, you are judged to be graciously unacceptable, inadequate and probably admit it yourself, since you have also changed the name of your party from PASOK to Democratic Incorporation, so that you will soon be able to start a new start. We're here! As for SYRIZA, since your charming announcements before 2015 you arrived after a year and a half to prove yourself with your partners, the Independent Greeks, inadequate, unrelated and hostages of your ideas. We saw that you voted last weekend on some of the measures that are a trick in a multi-brand plan, which literally dissolves everything in our country. On the one hand, you say, on the other hand, that everything was done well, but on the other hand, Mr Shoeble himself comes and tells you 'not in debt regulation'. Because you have done all this, you have given land and water, not to say what else you may have given, in order to regulate the debt, not to cut it or to delete it, as your earlier demands were. So did Mr. Klaus Regling, the boss of the ESM, who said that the instalments would be disbursed only if other prerequisites and suddenly two to three days after the plan were fulfilled, we heard that there would have to be a supplementary memorandum and that the Government representative, who went out, went to be justified and said 'no, completed memorandum, to correct the text'. I mean, we're playing with words at the expense of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u95	The Minister's gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u96	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u97	No, it's okay. He should come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u98	What did you say, Mrs. Zaroulia?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u99	He says the Minister's gone. There's nothing wrong, don't worry, we're not talking to the Minister, I don't think he gives a special...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u100	No, it's okay. The Minister should come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u101	He could have gone to his water, what should we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u102	No, he called. Damn it, I'll call you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u103	Keep going, Mr. Panayotare.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u104	After all, I do not think the Minister listens to me or anyone but them, their bosses from abroad, so there is absolutely no point in waiting for the Minister. Really, how's growth coming? You are talking about the new development law, or you are condemning the oldest development law, when we currently have the highest VAT in Europe, and how much more than the neighbouring competitive countries of our country. And not to comment on VAT on the islands and what the general, the Chief of Independent Greeks Mr. Panos Kammenos, who said and mourned, weeping from here, that "I will never allow, as far as I exist, the increase of VAT on the islands. Finally, with the policy of windmill, which he does, VAT has increased and he does exist. And not to say about the insurance cost, which is much higher than the neighbouring competitive countries, so many businessmen are leaving. Not to say about the rates of taxation, which have literally kneeled the small and medium-sized ones. Not to mention the indirect taxes, which you have put everywhere, which are too unfair for everyone and for everything. Not to mention excise duties, which affect mostly domestic products such as wine, the production of beer from small brewers, for the benefit of imported wines, imported 'accurate' drinks or imported spirits or other beverages. Not to say about the different fees, like the special night charge. You are now saying that you want to further develop tourism! Not to mention monopolistic practices. This is where I open a small parentheses. The case of "Eleftherios Venizelos". It sounds incomprehensible in a country such as Greece, with a very large tourist movement, that its capital should only have one airport, because the agreement signed by Mr Simitis at that time under English law but also the one signed by Mr Mitsotakis, above all, require that there be only one airport in the entire region of Athens. Not to say about the lack of control mechanisms, so as to control all illegalities made by a number of volatile domestic or imported ones. How can we have growth in our country when we dismantle the strategic advantages of our country, such as the shipbuilding industry. We have the first fleet throughout the world, and in essence we do not build a finest one in our homeland for many and various reasons, which could be very nicely solved, and the various shipyards in our country, in Perama, in Elefsina, in Chalkida, in Syros, in Scaramaga and elsewhere working on tens of thousands of our fellow citizens at work. Not to say about tourism, where he actually works on his own. However, we see the question of Russia as follows. We ask the Russian tourists for visas and biometrics, at the same time as one and a half million illegal immigrants have crossed without any element from our country and have done what they want and do on the substance. Or because of the embargo - another strategic mistake! - we do not allow thousands of Russian government officials to come to our homeland and take a vacation and leave their very nice money, rubles, dollars or anything else it is, because we are very great. Not to mention primary production. We are talking mainly about agricultural production. We saw the obstacles that constantly enter the winemakers, the feta producers. Here I am opening a very small parentheses, for example, about the tragic mistake of the New Democracy - PASOK in the agreement with Canada, which allowed Canadians to produce fetas from wherever they were. We come to the information, which we are now told about the forthcoming Europe-American agreement, where everyone can produce feta and go to PDO, all go! The same with the Europe-South Africa agreement, where we know there is no mention of feta. We hope and hope to make a mistake in this regard. The development of Greek DNA. When I say Greek DNA, what do I mean? The Greek potential, these hundreds of thousands of young people who left our country, not withstand all these development programmes of the former and yours. They should all come here and offer their lights to the Greek economy and primary production. The introduction of the EEZ, where you all say we have oil and it is now proven. We have deposits, gas, hydrocarbons, we have everything but so far you haven't done anything at all. It is only words and on substance zero. New strategic alliances that will bring us more revenue than wrong strategic alliances we are following, because we are members of the European Union and NATO. With the new development law, the government advertises and declares that investors will be motivated by more than 20 million euros. But it's not the big investors who do whatever they want, take and bring their money. The question is the real pillars of the Greek economy and of every economy, the small and medium-sized ones, to be helped by the new development law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. All those whom you have broken up, and like the previous ones, all of them, many of whom were investors as micrologers and who, in one day, deprived all of them of all, those who SYRIZA said he would restore them, but now he's whistling about this issue. But in order to do all this, we must - and we remind you - resolve the issue of debt and make debt accountability, in order to prove that of the hundreds of billions of euros, which say that we owe a large part of this debt is illegal, shameful and burdensome. For the mortgage loan, where we are talking about hundreds of millions of euros and no one is saying a word anymore. For the protection of Greek products and Greek workers, why we cannot compete with products coming from Asian countries, where six-year-old children work twenty-hours a day and take 1 dollar or 1 euro. This is not the case unless we protect the Greek and Greek products, as well as there is a stable tax and insurance environment, because this is the only way to stop Greek companies leaving abroad. Finally, any funding made either through the NSRF or through other programmes, to God, should not be made through the many bankrupt banks but should be made directly by the Greek state, its institutions and institutions. Of course, all this must be done, there must be a government that loves Greek citizens, loves this place and is not an enslavement either of the bankers or of the loan sharks or of all those who are working to dismantle our country. Such a government would be the Golden Dawn government, if God will and the people will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u105	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. There is an image which the parties of capital are deliberately cultivating, the parties of the Euromonstrate, the political apologists of the capitalist system - all, and this form of neo-fascist - that there is the same impact on the classic measures taken by both the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, as the opposition and the current government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks said. In other words, the rapporteurs of the Democratic Alliance have claimed that all of them are affected by government policy. Are you serious? Or did we start the day's short jokes again? So they're all on the same boat? Industrialists, bankers, shipowners and major merchants are affected by government measures? Or are workers affected, who have seen their working relationships overthrown, lower wages, accept a complete frontal tax raid? Are the industrialists, bankers and shipowners the same as professionals and crafters? Are industrialists, bankers, shipowners and poor medium-sized farms on the same fate? If ever possible! Others are increasing their profits, improving their position, taking out their assets abroad in tax havens, exploiting the liberalisation of the movement of capital, services, goods, so that they can secure their interests and at the same time the people are under attack. The rapporteurs of the Democratic Incorporation - but not only these - and the other parties who spoke - are the crocodiles for backbone, he says, of the economy, for small and medium-sized enterprises, when you, with your policy, are serving monopolistic competition, which this monopolistic competition crushes small and medium-sized professionals, when on the front of the proposals - one of the proposals tabled by Mrs Gennamas - was the further opening up of the so-called closed professions. But this policy of market liberalisation is a policy which leads to the violent dismantling of small and medium-sized enterprises, for the benefit of market concentration in less hands, of market monopolies. They're pouring crocodile tears, why are they leaving, says, business? Are you serious? Aren't you related to this situation, to business leaving? Who voted for the Maastricht Treaty, which gave it the right to open up the markets, to free the movement of capital, goods, services and workers, so that the overcompensated funds can be transferred to countries with cheaper labour, with cheaper raw materials? Now has the pain that companies are leaving with this strategy that you are following and going to Bulgaria, Cyprus and elsewhere, when you have shaped this framework? At the same time hypocritically invoke the patriotic, he says, duty of the capitalists. Where did they find it? What patriotic duty do they have when transferring their money abroad when making foreign investments for big profits? Their only concern, their only value is to secure the capitalist gain and to serve this value that capitalists have, to crimes against humanity. Because the imperialist wars are nothing different than ensuring their capitalist profits. In that sense, therefore, which you cultivate, it is like saying that you provide land and water. You're raising, he says, taxes when in Bulgaria has 10%. You're increasing insurance contributions. Elevate a number of other things. I mean, with that logic, we have to give them everything. Full tax immunity for capital, very cheap labour because there is competition, obedient raw materials. Give all of the assets to the large capital, make use of them without any consideration or grief. That is what the current government is doing and that is what you are doing. With the measures taken in these years in this direction, it leads to a very cheap workforce, overturning labour relations, and even free work programmes for capitalists exist. There are development laws, state and Community funding, a dance of millions and billions in this Chamber, a multitude of development programmes, a multitude of development projects. The result? Tax immunity has big capital. Minister, you know that very well, perhaps better than I do, the examples that apply in the countries that you have said at high rates of taxation, where foreign and large investment have a different tax regime than other professionals or small and medium-sized enterprises. They are given other tax incentives, such as other tax incentives, you will also have in development law the large and very large investments that will be made. Isn't that right? Is the same tax regime in Finland as other companies? Is the same tax regime in Sweden as other companies? Of course not. They have completely zero tax regimes, as the shipowners have here. A zero tax regime also has full tax immunity. So the government has the same strategy as the parties of the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Potamios, the parties in general of the Euro-mono street. However, the essence of this is not, who will give land and water or what development model there will be and what areas will be supported more. You also agree on the areas that will be supported. Tourism, energy, transit, logistics. This is precisely because these are the priorities and objectives of the chapter itself. You can't determine. Your chapter defines areas and to these areas, you support and shape the political conditions. But the essence is not that, what a development model we will have. Another is the substance of the JRC's opinion. First of all, are there any possibilities for growth in Greece? Are there any objective possibilities? Are there raw materials? Is there a land and a favourable climate so that the agricultural sector can be developed? Is there proper technology to exploit raw materials and agricultural production? Should there be processing? Is there the experienced workforce? Is there the experienced scientific and technical potential? Of course, there are all these factors. All these factors exist in Greece. Then why is that reality? Is the capitalist crisis alone that destroys productive powers and sectors of the economy? Shipyards, textiles, clothing, leather were not destroyed because of the capitalist crisis. During the period of capitalist development these branches were destroyed. Why? What's the problem? Because the capitalist - and this is the ironic law of the system - does not develop productive potential. It develops these possibilities that serve it to ensure capitalist profit. Otherwise it will destroy them. Otherwise, he's going elsewhere. The first productive force destroyed by the capitalist is the labour force, which wants to be very cheap or by building the backup labour army through unemployment, to further reduce labour rights and the value of labour force. So the question is. These productive possibilities that will come, how will they be exploited? Why can't the current government even use them? Because she doesn't have the tools in her hands. The tools of development are kept by capitalists. As long as capitalists have the tools of growth and the economy, the keys to the economy, there will be no growth that serves and meets the people's needs. How can this be done? There's one way, there's no other way. The only way that exists is to socialize the tools of development, to make the keys to the economy popular. So socialisation of the means of producing the wealthy sources, raw materials, exiting the European Union, which, in its policy, destroys sectors of the economy. Can a ship repair zone be developed here, with the specific policies adopted by the European Union or other sectors of the primary sector? So releasing from the European Union is the second prerequisite for other imperialist organisations. Of course, labour control and the central planning of the economy are the third condition, economic planning. From this point of view, of course, you will not make a closed economy, but you are trying to develop equal relations, to give what you have in excess, as long as you first meet the people's needs and introduce what is in deficit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude with that, Mr President, one word. This is therefore the only realistic plan, which can make use of all the productive potential of the country, to eliminate unemployment and regional and sectoral disparities, because there will be central planning to meet all the needs of the people. But what does that mean? What's the condition? To change the hands of power. Power from the hands of the bourgeoisie and capital to pass into the hands of the working class and the rest of the folk layers. This is the only condition. This will, of course, be through the radical overthrow of the association of forces, through the organisation of the struggle of the people to prevent these measures, will lead to relief from the barbaric measures that will continue to be voted on, to bleed the people into the altar of capital profitability and will have to radically overthrow the claims and the correlations of power and will lead to more overall breaches and overthrows. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, fifty one student and five teachers, from the 39th Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My fellow Member, Mr Dousina Konstantinos, is requesting a short-day absence from abroad from 26 May 2016 to 4 June 2016 in order to go to Australia without a financial burden of the Parliament. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u108	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The next speaker is the Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr. Spyridon Dannelis. Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the entrepreneurs but ideologically and deeply bisexual - civil war in fact - interpretations of the Greek people's vote in the August referendum, which were tabled yesterday in "AGEAN" by the new entrant in the House of Lords, expose you, Minister, and of course cancel your every report and every debate on development. It is obviously on the reverse of the recent statement by the Prime Minister last Sunday - if I am not deceived - which we welcomed, saying: 'To pass through the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Economy and Development to produce wealth'. That was the reference made by the Prime Minister, which, of course, is hopeless, if it comes with exceptional delay. The country is once again living in the thriller of an evaluation, which we all wish to see completed immediately and as positively as possible, which has denounced the public debate, how and when it will close - once again - by postponing every debate on the creation of the conditions for the production of real wealth, which this question should employ all the years of the crisis and which, of course, if we were to be seriously concerned about in the past, would not go through the bankruptcy crisis. In the six years of the crisis, the country remained attached to a stateist, outdated and disastrous model of economy. It is not by chance that this obsession with the political system, which you share, too. The client state, coalition, nepotism, on the one hand, and the political system, on the other, have remained and remain associated with interdependence, strangling entrepreneurship, the real economy and, ultimately, the country itself. The trenches reveal that the only thing you want is to postpone, like the previous ones, the real reforms, which are the necessary and capable treaty for the great step forward, development. This is how your insistence on imposing taxes to maintain this counterproductive state of affairs is interpreted. It is characteristic that in this year's general government budget, revenues are projected to come by 90% of taxes and only 10% of expenditure savings. This is another delusion, and as it proved this weekend, the delusional ones, like the lack of planning, always end up being paid very expensively. You are already in power for a year and a half, and we are still consulting on the new development law, which, as you said, we hope, will have it in its entirety this week, so that we can reach agreement and discuss it enough. In consultation, however, we have already noted some ambiguity about the company's profit-making clause, the definition of what constitutes an outward business and what is not, we are seeing a reintroduction to reasonable and practical monologues and hence more subjective and diverse control and evaluation procedures and various others, which we will discuss more extensively next week. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is a typical example of the privatizations. It is clear that there is a permanent ambiguity, as the concepts of entrepreneurship, wealth production have not been dismantled, despite the statements by the Prime Minister himself. However, public property and its rational exploitation are a key to producing national wealth. As far as the primary sector is concerned, why do we not have more than two years since its entry into force and implementation, the new CAP and its new institutional instruments? Let us recall that the new CAP is expected to bring to Greek agriculture more than EUR 19 billion during the 2014-2020 programming period and rural development. I would also remind you that this amount is greater than the sum of funds that will be injected into the country, from all other sectors through the Structural Funds. The rational use of these money, of course, could undoubtedly ensure in our agriculture and in the agri-food sector, which is one of the key pillars of any sustainable production model we adopt, environmental, social and economic sustainability. However, unfortunately, two and a half years after the start of, as I said, power is far from being approached by planning rules, not yet planning. With regard to the ESDP, we have occasionally said several things. Of course, we have not exploited and insist that we do not make use of the European funds, as all the other European countries, which started after us and, indeed, with greater problems than we had in our own national economy at that time. The projects, actions and the logic of the Funds have always been to structure themselves so that they can create added value. This never discerned any planning over time. The result was, of course, a loss of resources at the end of each programming period and, of course, an irrational utilization of funds. It is characteristic that we have always talked about absorption, and we are still talking about use rather than use. Minister, I would like to note that the largest project with the highest budget that has ever run to Crete is a project - how things prove things and not each of us - not only ineffective but also disastrous. I am referring to the Apostlemi dam, because these days too we have to think about how we finally made use of or rather here we did not use the resources at our disposal. We have not come to an assessment at the end of each financial period, an evaluation to see what we have done wrong so that we do not do it again next time. We haven't even done it now. This year we have the mid-term review of both the CAP and the Structural Funds and of course the European budget. Do we have a design and a point of view? Will we have any intervention in all this, Minister? Today, in the most critical and problematic period for the country, as far as European funds are concerned, while they are the only sure resources for investment and promotion of actions and projects, we still seem to be weak to learn from the mistakes of the past. How is it possible without a development law, which certainly sets specific targets, to make calls for projects and projects already in progress? There is this irrationalism and the long delay it costs, which is not just because of you. You've been charged a year and a half. In these ways, of course, the transformation of the country's productive fabric and the integration of the infrastructures and the reform of the institutional environment that is needed in order to talk about real development conditions is in the fridge. It is not by chance that almost four out of ten Greek companies are now inclined to consider not only the transfer of part of their activities abroad but also their headquarters. Nine thousand enterprises are closest to immigration, mainly companies of high added value, such as technology, health, etc. We all know what the main reasons for evasion are. What are we doing to remove all these reasons, the great fiscal instability, the inability to access capital, high taxation, bureaucracy, but, of course, - and more importantly - the lack of confidence and stability? The latest monthly economic survey by IOBE records an expansion of the pessimism of retail trade and services, a climate that applies to the construction sector, unfortunately, for the private construction sector, where a new deterioration of expectations is recorded. Of course, how can it not be that when fifty-seven thousand nineteen companies expect a VAT refund of more than EUR 1 billion and some of them have already been waiting for three and a half years? It is more obvious that the ongoing wave of deindustrialisation and disinvestment of the Greek economy provides a risk signal for a painful Asset Drain. The continued fleeing of people, capital and business leads to a huge Value Drain for our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Along with the valuable skills and know-how that are lost, perspective and hope are lost together. Entrepreneurship, which is a one-way path to the country's development prospects and the way out of the crisis, seems to be systematically punished by government policies. What is required by the state is knowledge, will, planning, rather than convenient, perhaps immediate but destructive, political overweightings, what seems to create dynamic profitability and what brings growth. Minister, let us finally get together with all the political forces in the country, so that we can determine together the conditions required in order to realistically speak of development and adopt a sustainable productive model that - we will not get tired of saying so - is more than ever needed for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too. Mr Kammenos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the definition of the new legislation or as the previous Members mentioned it, and they analysed it quite well under its political prism and "glass" in the corresponding colour, has two words "development law". The law, as we all understand it, is something that needs to be implemented. In relation to the first synthetic, "developing", I will not analyse the question that I raise, because I will take a very specific place in the debate that we will be having on the law when it comes to Parliament in ten days, for its vote and for its implementation. One is the thought: When one puts one's money into the Greek economy, be it public, public investment is either a Greek private or a foreign investor, the basic thought of all of us, since we have the responsibility of managing this investment in all respects, financial, legal, environmental and anything else, should be how this capital, which is usually borrowed from one place to the other to make the investment, will not become'red'. That's what we've been talking about in economics for 20 years, how we're gonna do something, so in the future our investment is not risky, since it's about the state not losing its money. There is a basic case here. If the state is not interested in losing taxpayers' money and risking them or evaporating them or disappearing them, then there is no reason to discuss my thinking. Since, however, this state and this government are sure that it does not want to waste the money of the Greek people, in any case - barely the opposite -, with this healthy thought we should see how the development law together with all the co-legislative Ministries, all the co-legislative committees and the banking system, which is the pillar of the economy, which will lend part of the money, will guarantee part of the money, together with the supervisory authority, the Bank of Greece and the mechanisms of Europe, whether these are financial instruments - and these are financial instruments - and if you want to put it into circulation either of the European Investment Bank or of the Bank of Reconstruction and Development Bank or of any fund, which is leveraging in Europe, so that it can come to an institutional and invest in our country -, that is to say, we must protect it - so that it does not end up to some years in some of the money that they lose, because they lose their money or their money is not beinginvested , or theirmoney , or their money is not being invested in any directinvestment. If this equation is simply solved in our minds and we have the intention of zeroing anyone's money for whatever reason in our home country, then and only we will have a healthy growth that will bring too many jobs, because we will be a safe destination for any investor and for the state itself who will put his money, buying goods or services from individuals themselves. Yesterday we had an opportunity in the debate on the budget, with Mr Liargova of the Budget Office, to have a very long debate on figures and development results and on debt. What has emerged and I have said in more than fifteen of my contributions - I saw them yesterday - is that from last year until this year - I will be forgiven, with all due respect, by the honorable Mrs Gennamas, the President of the Democratic Independence - we did not charge the state EUR 86 billion. At the moment we have charged it with 21 million euros, of which almost 85% are in bonds and 15% in cash, cash and cashless, such as the official analysis. So the public debt has increased by 21 million euros, because they have been signed. So it is a lie that we increased the debt and charged the public with EUR 86 billion. The public will be charged as long as part of the plaque is disbursed. But what no one says is that when we received the government, we were charged on January 1, 2015, EUR 54.1 billion in credit liabilities until August 2018. Then we received an account, other than salaries, pensions, management and everything that has a government, debt, a debt obligation to serve loan obligations to the partners in Europe, to unwitting bonds of the PSI, to debts of the PSI that had not entered the moratorium and anything else. These 54.1 billion people had to find the money to pay for it. We found out to pay for it at a rate of 1% in thirty and a half years. The misunderstanding is clear. I would no longer like to hear in the Chamber that the public has been charged with EUR 86 billion. Debt: We have all accepted in one day, Minister, magically, that debt is not sustainable. We are all discussing today, in all the arms of the House, that debt is not sustainable, so we are now looking for constitutionalists, whether they are lawyers or doctors, or economists, to see what the present value of debt is in relation to the restructuring proposed by the government and the proposals we are going to make, to see whether the Greek economy will be reduced, so that it has room for growth. Because it's very simple: In a financial scale there's always debt and there's always income. Whether you are a state or a household, whether you are a natural person or a company, big growth brings an increased income and increased income increases the values one can invest or buy. Increased values naturally bring lower borrowing costs, which Greece also seeks. The lower borrowing cost brings greater loans to increase the wealth of income, company or person, but at the same time debt increases. There must be some attention here, because the very increased debt will never balance such an increased income, whether this is tax revenue of a government, or a household income, or our wage, because it has a limit that will increase but our debt must not increase indefinitely. So coming to discussing a development law, we just need to see the debt balance, because the income is very specific or the income of the state is specific at this time. We'll bring laws to cover both tax evasion and tax evasion and smuggling. That's all set. This month almost most will come from both Mr Alexiadis' Ministry and the Minister for Development. At the same time, we should look at incomes. The increase in income has to do with how multiplieratively on the basis of how many workers and how much we can increase wages to each employee, when the time comes, especially in the private sector. We have heard about the "brand name" SYRIZA - ANEL, which is repellent. I will say that Mr Portasalte tells us every day about the 'Samarovenezes'. I will say, therefore, that the term "Samarovenezes" is a statue in our ears and possibly a erotic call. All right, we have a name repellent, the "Samarovenezes" is a call erotic. Red loans: Why are you talking, when in 2009 we had 22 billion red loans and reached 1-1-2015 to have 79 billion? We've broken up the economy. We received 57 billion more red loans, broken banks, broken down businesses and a million unemployed. The unemployed of one million how will they help growth, when only the insurance funds have lost 8.3 billion of the unemployed's unpaid contributions? At the same time, there was no consumption, no demand, but there was a great distrust of the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You're telling us about capital control. You asked the Minister a question. I will not substitute you, Minister, but, with all courage, I want to say something. When we talk about capital controls, I reverse the question. Tomorrow morning with the Minister, Mr. Tsakaloto, and the Prime Minister, we sign and seal. How responsible is the opposition not to make Mrs Bakoyannis' last year's irresponsibility? These days were, about May 25th. I don't forget. He came and said next Monday the banks are closing, we have capital control. I called, got the list, and saw that we lost 3.5 billion deposits that week, from Mrs Bakoyannis' statement. The question to everyone is this: we are ending tomorrow with capital controls. Do the parties undertake not to prepare political and micro-groups and say "remove your money, why is the SYRIZA - ANEL government irresponsible" yes or no? If you do, we can stop them. Because that's where the risk is, making massive withdrawals. You're committed politically. That's the support. You tell us about the memorials of Ireland and Portugal and that the parties were united. And I say to you the very simple one, the next day you say 'all the money in the banks, we support the deposits, we support the banking system', to which we have given EUR 250 billion. We're waiting for an answer. If you do not give the answer, you are directly responsible for not ending the capital controls and not this government. Foreign investment in Greece during the period of PASOK - New Democracy - I have the list - was EUR 6.8 billion and the country that had taken the lead with 80% of the FDI in Greece was Luxembourg. Honestly, how many Luxembourgians have you seen in Greece swinging walks in the Constitution with money? Luxemburg Luxemburg Luxemburgers came first in foreign investments in Greece. Why? Where did the money go? We know, we've seen them. They have gone to real estate with companies covered behind offshore, and onshore holding, as Luxembourg does legally and morally. They did. Money came from Luxembourg for a specific purpose. Where was growth, when Luxembourg was first in FDI in Greece? Nowhere. At least we didn't see her. The negotiations we've been holding over the last year and a half have had a huge success.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u112	Finish, Mr. Cammene. We've reached the tenth minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u113	I shall conclude, Mr President. Let us say that since we have all agreed that debt is not sustainable, we have to make a firm commitment to the plan that we had discussed since last summer on the financial staff, which we hear this year, that part of the money that was not used for banks will go to buy the IMF debt, which is four times more expensive than the ESM, which is 19 billion. IMF is 16. We will all agree that we will do so, namely that it is of interest to Greece. Is there anyone who says we shouldn't do it? Let it be said publicly, to record that "I don't want to take the IMF debt to the ESM for two years, but I want to continue paying for it every week and 4.25%". Why don't you say it? It's not politics here. In other words, if this debt service cost is not reduced, how will the economy be allowed to increase? And how will the investor put his money when he sees a risk of a possible default? And right now counts it at 6.70% in the ten-year bond. This has to go to 3%, to 3.5%. Do not see default risk or debt repayment difficulties. We said so yesterday to our German colleagues in the House in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I asked them the same question: If he comes to your House, why say no, since you have not given us a single euro in cash, rather than bonds and state guarantees? You don't even have a chance as taxpayers. Mr. Reglin told you. So why would the German parliament say no to the prolongation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u114	Please, Mr. Cammene, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much. We'll discuss the rest when the bill comes to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u116	Thank you. Mr Marios Georgiadis, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u117	Good evening, everyone. Thank you, Mr President. I will start with the slogan that should exist throughout the Greek people, which is now: "Take a breath while it's still taxless." Because, as the Minister has said, whom I have listened very carefully, you are doing everything right. That's what you said from the Step. You said we were on the right track. And I'm asking why we are right now seeing automatic cuts and superstition as security rigs. At the same time, you want high added value investments. Then why are they going out and not sitting in Greece to invest their money? Obviously, because those who have money and are investors are irrelevant and do not like the climate in Greece! We're the smart ones! And I don't understand why this whole picture exists! And it's likely that you're doing everything right to be a continuation of the unique world originality that exists at the moment, trying to legitimize the illegality with the two and a half thousand false degrees, instead of being led by concise procedures to the exit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u118	Inaccurate, Mr. Colleague, inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u119	You'll pass a bill, dear colleague. It is simply in the question that it is important to highlight some things, because we hear here that everything is done right, and we think that we have delusional things in the end rather than you. Instead of going out - and I finish and I will not go any further - by concise procedures, as would any undertaking that would have been in a fake degree and that the employee would automatically leave, we want to give them the opportunity to legalise the illegality. For us, this is without precedent. And move on to the point that you've already been delayed by the development law. The timely question put by the Democratic Partnership has a right and wrong part. It is true that there is an extremely painful investment climate on the market right now. The wrong findings are that at the moment there are high expectations that a development law can come, which will actually work. We know that in the past, the governments have supported too many development laws. A lot of laws have been implemented and very large funds have come to the economy from the European Union. If, indeed, all these development laws could stand up to the market, at the moment we would be talking about a different country and not the one we live in. But these laws served short-term goals. The funds were disbursed and went to the bronto, without precipitating and operating these businesses in a very short time, and many operators who had dealings with the public and state actors have enriched themselves within a very short period of time. This enrichment, however, now does not seem to have led to an investment strategy. The only thing that led to it was cash storage and outside Greece. From Law 1262/1982 to Law 3908/2011 we counted five developmental laws. The last two, 2011 and 2004, contributed to the creation of six thousand, six thousand, sixty-seven and thirty-nine, sixty-sixty-nine jobs, respectively. Each job cost Greek citizens EUR 322,000 in the first case and EUR 230,000 in the second case. In fact, with studies by Professor Petrakos and GRANT THORNTON, the average life expectancy of these new jobs has not exceeded three years. So you understand that we are talking about expensive jobs and development laws, which are only developmental. I put the relevant source in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, growth does not come by law. We are in a country that does not operate under normal free market rules. State intervention and state dependence are at very high levels. This is also evidenced by the fall in consumer demand over recent years, as a result of the reduction in public wages and pensions. In our view, in order for growth to come, we must rely on five main points. Firstly, we must rely on the reduction of non-wage costs, namely the reduction of employers' and insurance contributions, which reaches up to 50% of the income. It is higher than in many European Union countries, the main industrial and manufacturing competing countries. The average in these countries is 26%, while the average of the rest of the OECD countries is 28%. The reduction in non-wage costs will also lead to an increase in the private sector's wage costs, which the operators would be happy to do, in line with the statements made at times. In other words, it does not bother the employer to pay extra wages, which will enter the worker's pocket. In fact, this will make the worker more productive and more consistent with his obligations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some more time. What is disturbing and improperly preventing employers is the increased non-wage costs, i.e. all kinds of insurance contributions, which are currently on the rise. The second point we would like to stress is the restructuring and simplification of the tax system. We cannot have a 45% scale, a 100% tax advance, pension and health insurance contributions 25% and solidarity contributions 5%. All of this, even enters the process of paying for it by any businessman, will not be profitable for his business. The third thing we want to stress is tax incentives. Instead of subsidies and development laws, we must establish permanent tax incentives. For example, we can introduce tax refunds under certain circumstances for young entrepreneurs and innovative businesses. There are concrete tax plans, which apply too many countries of the European Union and are in this direction. These are known to everyone. The fourth point concerns development and investment incentives. To establish exemptions when a firm has proven to invest in our country and opens up jobs. It is unacceptable to expect a company to contribute 80% of its contributions to the state and with the remaining 20% it must make investments. The fifth and last point, to which we would like to stand as the Central Association, in today's debate, is to reduce the cost of wage costs between the public and private sectors. Fixedly, according to data from ELSTAT Human Resources Survey, the public sector pays its employee 35% more than a private enterprise. There is no institutional, legal or moral justification for doing so. We must not create two-speed citizens. It should not be considered as privileged to work in the public sector and to avoid working in the private sector. Only then will we cultivate people's interest in staying in their country and working productively on the private initiative. Therefore, stop thinking about growth through commands and laws and start thinking about growth by creating permanently suitable investment ground. The truth is that you have brought growth - we must admit this - but in Bulgaria, Romania, Cyprus and outside Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Loverdos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, every day that we, in the Democratic Alliance, feel, we of PASOK are increasingly lacking the journalist Giannis Ziomopoulou, who died recently. We lack his experience, we lack his form, we lack his love. I want to send a message to his relatives that we will always remember him, we will always love him. I wish the Simopoulou family the best. Minister, Mr. Koutsoukos raised a subject related to the escapers...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u122	Excuse me, Mr. Loverdo. Before you start your speech, I'd like to make an announcement about the school that's attending our meeting because it's going to leave, and then continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u123	You're welcome, Mr. President. Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-two students and students and eight teachers attending them from the Municipal School of Daphios Lesvos and the School Centre of Cardamylon Chios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Loverdo, I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u125	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u126	And don't worry, your time is fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u127	Oh, no! Can you put my time back in the first place?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u128	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u129	The experience, colleagues! The president can change later and he won't know my time. Minister, Mr Koutsoukos was here today making reference, as many of us often report, to SYRIZA and to the growth that has been escaping. Not only from the Bank of Greece, which you can say Mr Stournaras is from the nature of the optimist - the Bank of Greece predicted a lesser rate - but from all European institutions and international organisations the predictions were something close to 3% in 2015, something close to 3.5% to 4% in 2016 and 2017. I, 'professional', when it comes to numbers, look at the European Central Bank primarily and after the international monetary funds and the others. It was 2.9% for 2015 - you can't question it - and 3.7% for 2016, this year, the year of recession, and growth, little, but after seven years it seemed very much, as it seemed on the market, 0.6% or 0.8% for 2014. You are now saying in your speech to Mr Koutsouko to take care of the other data, of the primary surpluses. I remember how many times Mr Venizelos, how many times Mr Koutsoukos, how many times myself, Mrs Gennamata - I do not know now, ladies and gentlemen, if I omit someone else - Mr Constantinople, who has not heard all this time from Varoufakiad, but to this day, tell you here that it is a matter of political law for the National Representation to speak with the same data. You are right to say - we do not question this - that we must also take account of the country's primary surplus obligations. But the final thought must be based on a question, which is the well-being of the citizens and the stability and growth of the economy, resulting from a numerator and a divider. In the numerator, we have the issues of surpluses. But we also have the question of economic and development in the divider. I remember saying from 2012, when we reached the debt agreement, that the surpluses of 3.5% and 4% are a lot and we have to think about them at another level, but since we have seen the course of the economy - it was predicted at the pace that I told you - and since we have seen the cyclical consequences of this development policy, which has to do with the labour market, which has to do with the insurance funds, which have to increase or reduce the labour market and so on. And that's how to draw a conclusion. You've got actors, you've got anyone and you guys to say about the surpluses, which is also a matter of negotiation in each year and you're overlooking, ignoring, despising, despising what you now want to have successes, i.e. to have growth. And how do you get growth? How will you get growth when even in the filthy and cowardly Hatzidakis law for licenses you put a stop. Even in the law of Maniotis, with Spirzi, then President of the Technical Chamber, was it for land use, Mr. Maniotis? - who have released investments such as 'Asteras', such as 'Cassiopi', colleague, by law on Sunday and your amendment you have taken them back. Developments in 2014. And Mr Koutsoukos for Elias, speaking as our rapporteur, said that they gave a breath to small, medium-sized and large enterprises. And you took that back. How will you proceed with these minds when you are a government that both in economic and development matters operates in a slow motion? It's like watching phases on TV in slow motion. I would like to say to you, summarizing the thoughts we have, both as a parliamentary group and as a personal group, that, to talk about growth, we need to make four assumptions on which to base our policies. Admission first: The development laws, whose current dialogue shows them as something that is crucial to development, are co-determination term, somewhere it helps, but it is not the "A" and "O" of development, if you will vote for a law here. While experience taught us that the most beneficial development law was that of 1953, consisting of three and a half pages, while the recent ones of previous years produced red tape and corruption. Admission second: To make a government a development policy, it must make lightning interventions in the first six months of its governance. Then the train's gone. And you're in a year and a half. You've lost the train. Admission third: the economy must be freed from the state. Without precedent for the Government of the Crisis, yours and the previous ones, to make strategic changes in the state and to await the benefits of these strategic changes in the next few years. Acceptance fourth: Minister, for you who rains billions, but no one saw them, the issue of capital transfers is important, but not the most important, for growth to progress in the Greek economy. The question of growth, about jobs, jobs, jobs, is about defining the relationship between the economy and the state. It's a political matter. And you're very behind the needs of the subject. You are still at times of guaranteeing that delays and corruption have given birth, and we have a zero benefit, as the study of the Court of Auditors' decisions and what they have attributed to the Greek economy shows. Minister, you are a colleague of the most "fucked" Minister of State, Mr. Tsakalotou, who came from the negotiation, "fucked" from the Eurogroup and now he had taken the media - I saw him this morning - to tell us that journalists are responsible for capital controls and to suggest to us how to treat journalists as well. As if he was not a preconscious of Varoufakis for seven months, which led the country to capital controls and the House must consider its responsibilities. As if he was not the economist of counterpopulation with you, honorary guest at every morning bar, who hung us in the handkerchiefs. As if it had nothing to do with reality. Like the other Kammenos, Mr. Dimitris Kammene - not you, your President - where while voting in favour of the constitutionality of the draft law Saturday morning, while voting on the provisions of the draft law, he discovered on Monday that the arrangement for increasing VAT on the islands is criminal - and had voted on it - and anti-constitutional. The President of Parliament, who has still not answered us, has voiced the same voice, because he accepts that the Rules of Procedure and the rights of the House should be violated and that he is in the RAE leadership, for which the Committee on Institutions and Transparency has never given a favourable opinion, on the contrary. You empty people while people have heard what you have voted on. And a thought, Mr President, in connection with what you said as a Member of the Democratic Union and a Member of the Dodecanese. If you consider that there is no need for an exemption in favour of VAT provision and take it to 24%, such as the rest of the country, if you do not invoke spatial specialities which allow for differences in the single VAT, then without a major, dramatic change in the circumstances from 24% you do not return to another percentage. You may be looking for another measure, but you've lost that. You are troubled with the world and you are not allowed to think that the world is stupid and because you made a statement about the eyes of the world, forgets what you have voted on. You have accepted that the Eurogroup has two obligations of the country, which have to do with pensions and have to do with VAT, to the CSCE. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We're waiting to see if you're bringing drafts of law on them. Will you invite the majority Members to vote other than the ones you had them vote on a few days ago? I suspect that, ladies and gentlemen, because I have said that this may be a method. And so it turns out. Here, on Sunday that passed us, the approximately beneficial provision for young professionals, doctors, lawyers, engineers, economists, for health and medical care to have discounts in the first four years of their profession and not to give them back after, you abolished it. You voted for a part of the insurance policy, and after 15 days you abolished it. Yellow a pill and then color it, remove it. If on these two major issues, which you have mentioned, you are bringing about a change of regulations, then I do not want to be in the position of the majority Members who have swallowed it all. Mr President, I close - and thank you - by telling you the truth about what I hear from the Members of the House on Monday, Tuesday, Tuesday, yesterday, yesterday, this week, that is to say the last Sunday vote. They say: Are you people talking about ruining the country forty years? They say! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I close with this, Mr President, forty years ago he was a junta. My first question is: do you want to go back to her? Political question. Second practical question concerning all of us as human beings: Did the Greek society taste them as a bad thing for forty years? Has the establishment, the creation of a large, strong middle class taken place forty years ago? Did the hospitals take place before these forty years? IKA's expansion across Greece was done forty years ago? Were the roads taken before these forty years? The universities and the TEIs took place before these forty years? Sports spaces, closed sports facilities, where Greek children are working out today, were forty years ago, when children played balls in dry and trained in cement, with a number of health problems? That was forty years ago? He drives the other car his dad took him, goes to the university that took place in the days of his father, is athletics in the sports facilities that took place in those years, if anything happens to him, he goes to the hospitals that day you and when it's happened these years. Was it for throwing these forty years? It's the only argument you have left, and it's wrong. All you have to do is remind the Greek citizen so that he can look at you like you are. A left-wing Maduro, as proved by your charlatan policies and as demonstrated by the Prime Minister's letter to his mate, discussing a covert crime of sexual harassment. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we, as a parliamentary group, are opening up a debate today. We are opening a debate aimed at helping to have policies in the next few months that will strengthen growth. But we state in the most emphatic way that, alongside our obligations to extend our space - and before them - it is our oath, it is our duty to exercise the strictest, fairest, but honestest, honest, criticism of those who, Minister, have not claimed that everything has been broken in a year, as you are well advised to say. However, we claim, having proof coming from all over the world, such as the statistics I have told you, the statements by officials from the European Union and the whole world that a difficult course has taken place since 2010 and which we have conducted with a sacrifice of Greek citizens, with sacrifices of political parties, with sacrifices of people, with suffering, with suffering, a course of action you have asked and succeeded by mocking the Greek people, to do so again. Because we returned to 2011, just to have Tsipras a Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u130	Thank you. Minister, do you want the floor for answering or for going on second-guessing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u131	I shall speak after the second reading, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u132	The Minister has an unsuccessful obligation and asks us, if possible, to keep the time and to shorten them, because he has a meeting with institutions and has to be consistent. Mr Constantinople has the floor for five minutes, according to the planned time. As far as possible, it is limited to substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u133	Thank you and I will try, Mr President. The debate that is taking place today in the House must have a start, an average and an end. Mr President, I do not know if we can reach agreement. And you know, the world that watches us many times, faces a confrontation without understanding. I will not try to convince you because - liar or truth - a lot has been said in recent years, as well as in previous years. Such a lie, however, does not exist. I'd tell you you're Jordan of the lie. It's never happened before. So I don't know how to say something to you. [[At this point, the third Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Cristotopoulos, takes over the presidential office.]] You bring a table that Mr Corkolis has sent, after taking the service notes and saying, Minister - and I say it really for you, because it is worth seeing - that in the Operational Environment for Sustainable Development you have 105.4% absorption. I hope the evidence of the OPC that you have in your department is not fake. There, however, the Operational Environment for Sustainable Development has two, the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund. Listen to a difference: In the table submitted by the Minister, absorption is 105.4%. On the two axes, the ERDF, which gives the OP, is 98.29% and the Cohesion Fund, a convergence of 99.86%. In fact, these mathematics, this addition you make has never been in our country before. I've filed it before, Minister. Please see for you one time to understand what's going on. Secondly, we had a debate seven months ago on the old development law. We have tabled a proposal to you seven to eight months ago that you have even adopted it to a very large extent. After ten months, you come today to say that we will bring in the new bill so that we can put on what we agreed seven months ago. Minister, we are oppositioning proposals with positions. We want our country to move forward, so we are not in the "I'm not paying" movement for the government to fall, so we do not create the problems that SYRIZA created. We are not talking about national betrayals within this House, because we are interested in the country above all. But you haven't heard from us in that too. Minister, there's something that made me a terrible impression. I have tabled ten documents of which five are proposals. I watched whether you were anxious to ask for these proposals, take them with you, see them by your consultants, adopt our proposals or not. You were not even in the mood to ask for our proposals during this whole procedure. As far as garbage is concerned, Minister, you are a government and you can do whatever you want. I submit to Parliament the fines from the European Court of Justice that the country will have to pay in the next period of time and as long as you delay the bill will go to the citizens. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But what have you been doing lately and I do not understand how we can come to an agreement? You told us today that the capital controls were somewhere - somewhere beneficial in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u134	It wasn't beneficial.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u135	Mr Balaur told us it was your choice and they didn't bring them from abroad. GSEW tells us that thirty-five thousand padlocks were provoked. Can you tell us something very simple? In 2017 will we have capital control? In 2016 we will definitely have and you know it. In 2017 will we have capital control? Say it. Third, you did not answer for the Greek and for...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u136	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. I see you've spoken for seventeen minutes in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u137	The difference is we've changed president now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u138	We're not gonna sit here and run out of it. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u139	Madam President, Mr Kaklamanis was diligent. Everyone was on duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u140	It doesn't matter who he was. It is important that there is a rule. Let's keep him up. Continue, Mr. Constantinople, and finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u141	Minister, you keep saying something and Mr. Loverdos answered. I will make two points. In forty years there have been many mistakes and omissions and we must not go on with them, but we must look at the right ones. You say: 'We in a year can destroy the country?' I would like to tell you that in life there are many generations who have struggled to produce wealth and have come to a younger generation, Mr Stathakis, which has broken up everything in less than six months, that is, your generation - I mean politically - can do so. Anything that may have been built and created within six years in the crisis, you can dismantle it in a year. Because Mr. Kammenos of the ANELs said that the opposition would convince Greece that money would come to Greece, I want you and Mr. Kammenos to bring his money to Greece first. After bringing his money to Greece first, I am sure this will be a strong signal to the citizens to bring their money to our country as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Minister, you have not responded to the basic issues that we have raised and returned to us in the debate Mr Lovers answered you about the so-called denominator, namely the GDP that we have lost. Because if we want to talk about more primary surpluses, we would say that the calculation would take place on another basis. What did you do? You have succeeded with less GDP to have more taxation. This removed additional taxes that, as I said in my position, would go to growth. You have answered that this is not the investment tax criterion. You have brought Germany or France, for example, which have other conditions of competition, and they are not the ones we are competing with. We compete with the Balkans, our vital space. We are competing with Turkey. And as Mr. Kremastinos said, why should a tourist go to Kos and not go across to Bodrum or why should one go build a hotel on an island of the Aegean and not go across the street. Isn't that what the tax system does? And in any case, will you give us an answer on what I have told you about the stability of the system and the tax-free reserves that will make it easier for small businesses to accumulate some funds to invest at some point? You didn't answer us. Also, Minister, you have not answered us about the fact that for small and medium-sized enterprises there must be a series of counter-motors, because we have said that it is the backbone of the Greek economy. I will give you an example. Mr Alexiadis says that we will shortly put the POS for all operations. But it has a huge cost of money, it cannot be accessed by the small and medium-sized one, and measures need to be taken. Also, Mr. Jellonis, like Mrs. Gennimatas, made a full reference to primary production. You'll tell me it's not your responsibility. Yes, but primary production has a huge multiplier in secondary production, which is mainly the standardisation of products but also the tertiary, mainly trade-related. Don't tell us again about the EUR 40 billion in the first memorandum, Minister, because you compare things unparalleled. In 2009, we had EUR 36 billion in the budget deficit. You have received the country with zero deficits and growth rates. If you want, we'll compare the same. To conclude, Madam President, in order not to comment on me, there is an example, Mr Minister, which also has a personal character. Your first signature, when you became Minister, was the cancellation of a major auction on Patras - Tower street. Today, it's been a year and a half. Of the eight pieces you broke up with, only one has been auctioned. The rest I don't know when they're going to be and there's not a nail in there yet. Hey, how's growth coming? Finally, Madam President, I am going to borrow an expression used by the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget Office. Your development is 'fata morgana', Mr Minister, i.e. ocular deception, as I read in dictionaries. Of course, he has another character. You're resurrecting interests. You are eradicating penalties from the Competition Committee, making favourable tax arrangements. With the loan divestment, damages remain here, and profits go out. This is the character of your development beyond your eye delusion. That is why we are telling you that we need another policy, and that is why we are tabling our proposals, because we want to be a guarantee of this development for our people. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u145	I would like to ask the Minister either now or take into account the draft law which puts forward the issue of island status. The question I had asked was neither rhetorical, nor should I be embarrassed. In other words, if I was an English tourist, and I had to decide on the same sea to bathe in a better hotel or about better or the same in relation to what I was going to go and pay, I would not choose Kos but on the opposite coast. What does that mean? This disadvantage can be overcome by counter-factual measures that will be provided for in the bill you are tabling. I fear that what will happen is that not only will Kos, Dodecanese or Chios, Samos, Lesvos, etc. But the national economy will also lose revenue. Because if tourism in this region becomes uncompetitive, then you realise that the state will also lose. So what I expect - and that is why I repeat - is in the bill you are tabling to see remedial points of the state of VAT, the consumption of beverages, in any case, the different treatment of tourist hotels on the Turkish side and on the Greek side, as they are at the border.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u146	Minister, you have the floor. Ten minutes is your time. I hope you'll be quick.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u147	I'll start by saying that my key handling in the first cycle was that the government runs a cycle that closes these days with the first assessment. He had the agreement as such of last July. I claimed that this cycle had its own care. It was a cycle that we actually claim to have created better conditions for the recovery of the Greek economy than they existed with the previous very tough and very binding programme. That's our claim. I have presented some comparative data, because at the same time I recognise that all the comparative data must also be taken into account when these measures are taken. I insist, however, that the July agreement brought more favourable arrangements for both surpluses and debt repayment and for the measures to be taken. This is what I analysed in the first section. The second thing I have analysed - and here we insist - is that the way we handled and the problems of the type of capital control and the tools that the government had - such as the NSRF, the recapitalisation of the banks, the management of strategic investments that we had, starting with the TAP and ending up with all the four tourist investments that have been completed during this year and so on. - we tried to create better conditions for there to be positive effects in the case of positive signs or to minimize the negative effects of economic developments that were unwanted, such as capital controls. However, this result is reflected. Because we all have to agree. The footprint of this data management policy is seen in the result of the marginal recession - zero recession, i.e. - on the positive footprint in the financial data for 2015 and other economic indicators. You may criticise a hypothetical scenario of the type ‘what would have happened if not’. But in the data on the outcome of this year, I think our argument is strengthening, precisely because it also confirms the outcome of the better agreement and the way we managed the economy in 2015. But this cycle, I repeat, closes. The July agreement is a forward agreement. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The debate on whether under these conditions we are entering a circle where we can and should focus on measures, policies and support for the development process, while maintaining the sign of social justice. With this strategy, today, at the current juncture, the government is ready to legislate and act on many and various instruments, such as the development law, the new system of the ESDP, the way of Junker plan and its mobilisation, public procurement that constitutes a law - cut down, which will also come in June in the House, and a number of other measures that give a stigma, together with the support of natural and all the data, which I believe are common place for all sides of the House, that we will obviously support investment in energy, in logistics and in other critical areas that are actually gaining their own and self-sustaining development path. These conditions will have the opportunity in the next few weeks to discuss both the transitional provisions of the old development and the new development council and the new development plan of the country and the many other legislation that will come to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u148	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u149	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u150	I would like my dentistry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u151	You've exhausted no time, but everybody.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u152	In my prototype, I have taken time as all the speakers have taken, not just me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u153	Hey, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u154	...and not only by Mr. Cremastino but also by Mr. Kaklamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u155	And a little bit, Mr. Loverdo. A little bit. You see, there's no human being here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u156	Well, I want my dentistry, though. I am entitled to my dentistry and ask for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u157	Your tritology is three minutes, Mr. Loverdos, while you've exhausted all the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u158	I would like to say to the Minister that I note his words 'the cycle is closed'. It didn't close. I imagine the majority Members will think of it as a very difficult task to vote for additional measures in the areas that you in the media have said. So the circle is closed, but it's not closed. The second thing I would like to say is that with the Councils and development laws - I say this because these are what you mentioned and the plans - development is not coming. The development law - I say again - is a tool, it helps, but it gives rise to delays and corruption. Mrs Gennimata in the morning recorded a series of measures that contribute to development: the bankruptcy law she mentioned, the changes in justice, the administration. You, Minister, are obliged, even though you have been lost a year and a half with you at the Ministry, to overcome the obstacles to the bureaucracy of administration and justice in the economy. That's why you don't say a word. It's been wasted a year and a half. Do you have any initiatives to take? Do you have any purpose you're going to put the relevant means to get him on the table? In order to achieve growth at the end of the '14', taxes have been reduced. There was stability policy before and they returned funds to the Greek banks, around 40-50 billion. I remember the recording of the deposits to the Greek banks by Mr Stournara in October 2014, funds that left after you. And this was done, although previous governments had not removed the obstacles to the economy created by administration and justice. You come with this experience, too. Growth has been achieved, not as much as we would have liked. Radical development in the years to come and major obligations, removals of obstacles. You dropped us, you came, you lost a year and a half. Now you're saying in the next few days you'll be bringing in a council. What can the council do to you, Minister? Bring ten. What will the board do to you when he has a seven-year-old court delay investment? What can the board do to you when you kicked the ball in front of it for a few years? What will councils do to you? The older ones founded general secretaries. It's not like that. What are you going to do to overcome the contingencies of the administration, which is hostile to investment? It is true, Madam President, that in the years of the crisis the administration has become more difficult. She became more vulnerable to saying no than saying yes. What are you going to do about them? We understand from you, by Mr Kurubli, from all those who are related to the major issue of the country that you are not aware and subscribers to the country's obligations. The next few weeks will come, you will be judged in practice, but instead of councils - and I am not saying this - I am not saying that - bring some substantial action to remove the obstacles to the economy created by ordinary suspects, bureaucracy in justice and the state. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u159	Minister, would you like the floor to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u160	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u161	The debate is adjourned on number 25/19/14-2016 by Members of Parliament's Group of the Democratic Alliance of the PASOK - DIMAR to the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-27-S1-commons.u162	With the consent of the House at 14.25 minutes the sitting for the next Monday, May 30, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
