ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We're entering SPECIFIC MATTER PROTECTION Debates of the European Parliament pursuant to Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, at the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, at the level of parties, on developments in the field of justice. I would like to propose to the House that the time limits for today's debate be shortened, by way of derogation from Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, so that the procedure has been completed by 12 nights. I therefore propose that the speeches be configured as follows: The duration of the speech by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, whose initiative today is taking place, should be twenty-five minutes of the hour. The speaking time of Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Head of the New Democracy, should be twenty minutes. The length of the speeches of the rest of the Heads of State, Mr.Michaloliakos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mrs. Generations of the PASOK - DIMAR, Mr. Koutsoubas of the KKE, Mr. Stavros Theodorakis of the River, Mr. Kammenos of the Independent Greeks and Mr.Kingos Leventis of the Central Association, to be 15 minutes of the hour for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u2	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u3	Two Ministers will be taking part in today's debate. The speaking time of the ministers is ten minutes per hour for everyone. I propose that the speaking time should be ten minutes of time for the Prime Minister and eight minutes of time for the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups and the ministers. Finally, the Prime Minister can quantify for five minutes of the hour. We all realise that in these minutes there will be relative flexibility, which we always show to complete the debate on the substance. There is no question, just having a sense of total time. Please sit in your seats. There's a concern in the Chamber. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must express my gratitude and thanks to the New Democracy and to the PASOK which gave me this excellent opportunity to provoke this debate so that at the highest possible level in the National Representation, at the level of the debate between the political leaders, we can finally discuss justice, corruption and the conflict. To discuss the power system built in the last forty years and led the country to the end of the last decade. To discuss the system of political and economic, institutional, institutional and extra-institutional power that has not only been disguised, but has reaped even further in the period of the crisis. I want to thank them, because it is a debate that has to be done, so that the old people remember and the younger ones learn, so that your delinquents do not surrender to obedience your works and days, the works and the days of the previous government that took place in a time of crisis, so that your criminal responsibilities for the current state of affairs are not omitted to the conscience of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, on the occasion of a allegedly revelation over a alleged intervention of our Government in justice, considered that it would be given the opportunity to give a performance of sacred indignation. He thought he would be able to create sound in good cooperation with some of the well-known media of interactivity in order to win the impressions. He thought this would be a privileged field of political controversy. I think this is not about naivety. It is also arrogant, and I think it is absolutely appropriate to say 'you, secretaries and Pharisee hypocrites'. For in your rush and arrogantness, you didn't even think that in this way you would open up Pandora's box yourself and you alone are causing your luck and possibly a big political crusade, because today there will be a lot of talk, lots and lots of talk. But you will allow me to keep you a little more stressful that, I understand, from your standpoint all this time you have had a great deal of anxiety. All these days this is coming up. [[Noise in the Chamber from the New Democracy Wing]] So you waited days. Let me just take a few more minutes, because I do not want to start this debate and my speech from the realities of your own governments, but from what we intend to do. I want to explain our perception and describe in strand our strategic plan for a truly independent and institutionally strong and protected judicial authority. The task and task of the executive and legislative power, on the basis of the Constitution itself, is precisely to guarantee independence, institutional safeguarding, orderly functioning and protection of justice from all kinds of interference. The interventions, as you know very well, are not just policies or, above all, policies. There are also interventions from the business elite, from the oligarchy of money, which has established and exploited in collaboration with the old political elite, centers and paradoxical influence and external interventions. For as much as politicians, businessmen and justice officials repeat monotonously and especially when they check the known clichés 'I have complete confidence in justice', everyone in this country either knowing or sense that justice is only a deeply afflicted institution, afflicted by scandals, interventions, paradigms of power, economic and political interests, outlawing circuits, cover-ups and oligopoly, afflicted and by a legal framework which is far-reaching, deliberately unrealistic, complex and of poor quality. It is precisely at this point where we need to approach the great institutional problem, the great institutional disability of Greek justice, which is pluralism and evil. I have said many times before that pluralism and maliciousness are not the result of management incompetence, ignorance or legal weakness. The exact opposite is true. Plurality and evil are perhaps the result of a deep knowledge of how the state legal system works. It is the result of a deep study and an experienced experience of legitimate politicians of the old political system, the power system, who wanted to use their knowledge and legal talent to multiply the holes of the system, open windows, doors, and even gates to circumvent constitutional requirements, formal laws, and even criminal punishment itself. This is, therefore, a very well thought-out and structured technology complemented by deliberate logistical and wage depreciation, a technology that creates and justifies delays in oligopoies, deliberate or unintentional omissions and omissions, and even cover up many times. It is characteristic that our country has arrived, as evidenced by the international study recently seen the light of publicity, to have the second largest trial time internationally. For example, in 2014 the pending cases in the country's primary courts were three hundred thousand, while the pending criminal cases in June 2015 were two hundred and thirty thousand. In September 2014, the unspecified cases were about two hundred and thirty-three thousand, and after more than one year, with current governance, this figure has been reduced, but it is extremely high, it is an eighty-seven thousand cases. But what do these numbers reveal? They reveal a chaos that if it is not deliberately shaped, it is certainly deliberately abstract, because it was afflicting governments and economic interests, giving them the opportunity to cut and sew. It is precisely this situation that is responsible for breaking the relationship of trust between citizens and justice and, of course, between the citizens and the political system. And this relationship of confidence is that we need to reconstruct, rebuild, and we aim to restore. We will, first of all, restore it with concrete and effective political initiatives, which support all those judiciary officials who respect their oath and in adverse conditions, do their duty and duty, those judiciaries who are not spared, who are not redeemed, who are not under pressure. And these will be the main allies in our effort. All of these must know that in every step they will have this government next to them, they will have our support, morality, legality, logistics, politics. But, at the same time, those who want to reproduce past practices must also know that they will find us toward them and that we will make use of all available legal means to reveal and not cover up and take the path of disciplinary and judicial investigation any similar attempts to reproduce the practices of the past so that justice can finally be attributed to this place and that it is blind and unstoppable, as it must be. Ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation, it is important not to distort reality. This attitude that we are adopting at the first moment, this doctrine, if you will, in order to restore the relationship of trust between citizens and justice, is not an interference in justice but a legitimate and constitutionally guaranteed exercise of the powers and responsibilities assigned to the government in order to guarantee the uninterrupted and orderly judicial function. You spoke last time - and you gave us the opportunity to have this debate - for intervention by the Government in justice, invoking a conversation, a debate by the Deputy Minister of Justice of Mr Papagelopoulos, with the prosecutor Tsatani on corruption issues. You know, of course, that in this case, which concerns major economic interests, there are already disciplinary investigations into the actions and possible omissions that have probably led to three important procedural documents in the file. The following questions are rightly raised here: Firstly, who has asked for this famous meeting to be held on which you are blaming the Minister for Intervention? Mr. Papagelopoulos or the prosecutor? But, even before, another question seems to be more critical: How did the case come to the prosecutor in Chatani? What procedural pretext has been removed from the competent prosecutor of corruption by the arguments concerning businessman Vegeopoulos, in order to reach Mrs Tsatani's hands? I ask you why it is really impossible for me to understand - and I would like at this point your help, ladies and gentlemen - how it is possible that the supervising prosecutor of corruption, the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, with his letter of 22-4-2015, would take the view that all cases of corruption are solely the responsibility of the prosecutor of corruption and after eight months, on 18-12-2015, that he himself would give a new opinion on the case of Viseopoulos, which are exemplary corruption documents, were legally removed from the competent prosecutor. I give the Minutes and the two opinions, by eight months, of the same man. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I ask: is there no clear legal and procedural contradiction here? What changed in these few months and he fully reviewed his viewpoint? We shall now proceed to the issue of the most famous intervention of Papaggioulou. What, really, was the intervention? The expression of the Minister's legal opinion on this matter of competence? Is that an intervention? A legal issue, of course, in no way innocent, since, as it turns out, it has specific consequences. It is also known that in this case, in the case of Vegeopoulos, the Cypriot Minister for Justice has already protested in writing by letter to Mr Papaggiopoulou, which I am presenting in the Minutes. And of course, here we have very specific complaints on the part of the Cypriot Minister of Justice, which should, if anything, be investigated. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Moreover, even officials of today's Opposition are now intensely showing the open questions and the dark aspects of this case and are asking for its in-depth investigation in order to investigate exactly how things were done and whether there was a cover-up operation in the end. I would like to put forward, for the truth, both in the minutes, Mr Tsironi's letter - former PASOK MEP and President of the PASOK Committee for Vatopedi in 2010 - to the President of Parliament making specific references and complaints, but also to the one published - I imagine you have read it - a letter from Mr Sifonaki's executive and former MEP to the President of PASOK today, where there are corresponding complaints, which, if anything, deserve an official response from both PASOK but also from the Visual Opposition, which has so quickly raised questions about Government interventions in justice. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But, you know what? I personally am not in a hurry. This is not the time to talk about all this. We will, as we have to, expect the conclusion of disciplinary research and be sure that this conclusion will come. It's not going to pass, I guess, on newspapers. Society will know. Nothing will stay in the dark. As we speak, however, for disciplinary reasons and because a great deal of talk has been done about the disciplinary authority attributed to the Presidents of the Supreme Courts under a recent provision and you also blame the Government for intervening here, because it enables the President of the Ice Bay to have disciplinary authority, do you want to hear who in political and criminal justice - who seems to be, above all, concerned about it - have disciplinary authority? Let me list them: The prosecutor of the Ice Bay, the chairman of the Board of Inspection, the chief judges of the appeals of each of the country's courts, the Heads of the Appeals Offices, dozens of people. And with the latter provision it has reasonably gained disciplinary authority and the President of the Ice Bay, and that has disturbed you. But I wonder why that bothers you so much. Is it because you're being cut off for the independence of justice? Or is it because this particular disciplinary authority makes it difficult for the system, the mechanism of your interventions and your extra-institutional contacts? Questions will be answered on the screen. And because he wants a lot of nerve - a lot of nerve! - that you speak of interventions in justice, let me remind you of what action is to be taken in justice from your recent, recent works and your own days and, indeed, what is unconstitutional, and with the bogeyman intervention in justice. So please keep the number because you may lose count. Intervention Number 1: Under Law 4024/2011 wage overdrafts amounting to EUR 30 million at the School Buildings Agency, all prosecutions initiated by the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office were terminated. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Intervention Number 2: The Law Council of the State, based on the provisions of Laws 4071/2012 and 4070/2013, exempts all liability for the debts of all municipal enterprises and all private entities. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Intervention Number 3: With Law 4255/2014 all criminal prosecutions involving...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u5	Quiet! Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u6	...the availability of resources of the OSCE, the Free Professional Insurance Agency. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Intervention number 4: Article 68 of Law 4139/2013 stipulates that it does not constitute bribery the simple material provision for expression of gratitude. Listen to this! It's not bribery! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't be afraid! I'll see you here. You're gonna lose count! This provision, fortunately, was abolished shortly after the general outcry. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Intervention number 5: You will lose count. With Law 4046/2012...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u7	Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u8	...they were relieved of all responsibility - listen, from all responsibility - the members of the bank boards and the Bank of Greece's staff for the bond rescheduling program, the notorious PSI. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Intervention Number 6: All criminal prosecutions were suspended by Law 4141/2013 in the administrations of public companies privatised on the basis of Memorandum of Understanding on Public Debts, to legal persons governed by public law, insurance funds and local government agencies. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Intervention number 7: Under Law 4224/2013, the members of the Board of Directors of LARCO are exempted from any civil criminal and administrative liability for the sale of the company's assets. By the same law - intervention number 8 - all criminal prosecutions for the boards of agricultural cooperatives of every grade were stopped under Article 19. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Intervention Number 9: Under Article 55, all criminal prosecutions were suspended for the offence of non-payment of debts to the public for private persons of a non-profit nature. Take a break. We're counting nine for now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u9	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, they have not been suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u11	You can take the floor to answer, but there's more to it. Because all this is real bits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u12	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u13	All these speeches that I have just mentioned - and they have actually caused a disturbance at my right-wing audience - are really stumblings in front of the disgrace that follows immediately, ladies and gentlemen. Intervention number 10: On the initiative of the then Minister for Justice of the Government. Samara, Mr. Athanasios, is replaced by Article 263a of the Criminal Code. This article provided that officials and officials of public or private enterprises who are subsidised by public undertakings, in the event of serious offences such as bribery or the dismantling of public money, are punished by strict penalties, the ones provided for by public officials. In this category, felony sentences, i.e....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, the Prime Minister regrets to say these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u15	On this charge...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u16	They had to let you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u17	You can take the floor to answer. Don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u18	Please, Mr. Athanasios!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u19	We'll talk with evidence today. In this category, they were subdelegated to a number of private enterprises and non-governmental organisations, which received abundant funding from the Greek State. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of Parliament's Department of Stenography and Practice]] This amendment was tabled on 6 May 2014 and provided that private business and NGOs would no longer be punished like civil servants but rather with much lighter penalties. And since this amnesty provision was passed and applied for a few days, it was abolished by next law by the argument in the explanatory statement that it was tabled and voted by mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u20	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u21	Beware, however, that was a mistake, it seems, for some people. The existence of the law, even for a few days, enabled the criminals to seek judgment on the basis of this law. This is because the defendant has the right to be tried by the most favourable law applicable from the time the offence is committed until the end of his trial. Fortunately the Greek courts and the Marios Ice himself, much later, described this provision as unconstitutional, saving the honour of the Greek legal system, which Mr Samaras and Athanasios had arranged to collapse. Even worse, however, it is this intervention - intervention number 11 - not to miss the count - which was done with Law 4146/2013, and in particular Article 78, which provides that the Presidents, members of the Boards of Directors and members of banks are exempted from any liability for the offence of infidelity and from any form of bankruptcy with legal persons governed by public law or private persons of a non-profit-making nature in the wider public sector. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you know what this is about, ladies and gentlemen? This is the case of sea bass in the parties and, of course, in the parties of the New Democracy and PASOK. Do you know what guarantees these loans had been given by both parties? What, then? The future state funding. And I ask: have they somehow ensured PASOK and the New Democracy that it is in this place that bipartisanism, bipartisanism as we knew him by 2012, that he does receive 40% and 45% and that state funding in the parties is so high? But there have been executives in the bank boards who have accepted this and provided loans, loans which today cannot be repaid. And, in any case, legislative intervention, which was voted on at night with some amendment, which I tabled to the Minutes, obviously involves delusion. Who's the douche? The discharge of bank officials from their possible responsibilities for a practice which is in no way justified and certainly exposes the banking institutions to unforeseen risks. Because here - you know - we are not dealing with small amounts. Because you, beyond the country, managed to bankrupt your parties too. According to the Bank of Greece's figures, but also with reports, which have never been denied, your party's debts, Mr Mitsotakis, of the New Democracy amount to €210 million today. If I'm wrong to be disobeyed. Of which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u22	I took it off!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u23	You guys made it! Congratulations, then! Well done, you have a bankrupt party and you want to continue and go bankrupt too. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Don't be happy, though. Of these 210m euros, which you made and rejoice in about, 197m concern loans from banks, most of which have been received in this time by this guarantee of possible future state funding, which will never come. And given the present state of affairs, of course, these loans will never be repaid. And not to say that I'm only talking about New Democracy, I imagine that Mrs. Genemas will know that something similar is also true of PASOK. I don't have any hard evidence. Besides, there is an audit, and at some point I imagine it will be made public. My figures are a little older, 2013, when I was talking about 111 million euros. Who knows today what this height will be? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I would like, therefore, today, ladies and gentlemen, to commit myself personally to the National Representation - not that it has more, no hurry - that this case with the sea loans of your parties, when the Greek people are struggling, having a small loan for what the troika will come to, cannot be closed in one night because you have tabled an amendment that acquits and gives immunity to those who have given you them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u24	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u25	So these responsibilities will be sought up to antenna and attributed. And the little game of these seashoes on the back of the Greek people by banks, which have been recaptured three times in blood and sacrifices by the Greek people, must be finalized either by the seashore loans for your bankrupt parties or by the seashore loans for some bankrupt media managers. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because, you know, right here lies the real hub of the old power system that operated as the ultimate triangle of sin. The banks provided loans to the media and the parties, the parties supported their banks and administrations with reasonable services and, of course, the media were caring for and caring for the power system that feeds them. That's the reality. And at the same time when this triangle was working unexpectedly, the country was sinking. The people and the country paid and paid. And some, of course, ran and continue to feed bankrupt businesses, while the country was on the rocks, and they sent duty-free their statements to the Virgin Islands. But, you know, this little cat has to end sometime and we're determined to finish soon. In the next few days, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group intends to table a proposal for a committee of inquiry, which will investigate thoroughly the loan contracts concluded by banks with political parties and the media, because the Greek people expect concrete answers for this party held on their back. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The committee will investigate and draw up a finding not of the saint, but not later than the end of May, i.e. within two months. He will make a conclusion, so that the Greek people and the National Representation know how in all previous years some on their backs played games to feed their bankrupt parties and the bankrupt media that supported their bankrupt parties. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, and only the courage that some have today to move us over and over, when they continue to take loans without guarantees, when we dare to question their credibility and objectivity, is enough to lead us to speed up the procedures to finally enter law and order into this immunity. But is the intervention being exhausted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u26	Quiet, please. You just heard law and order... [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We're on our way, Prime Minister. Please speed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u27	You've lost count, though. If I am not mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, we had left 11, because there are 12 interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u28	Please be quiet. What's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u29	And you know, the intervention - why are we talking about interventions in justice now, huh? - Number 12 also has the signature, wide, of the President of today's Officer's Mitsotakis. This is a night's amendment, which had been tabled and withdrawn four times in total and was finally voted in favour of the fifth attempt in Parliament and, if I remember correctly, without even an absolute majority of fifty-one, but with a hundred forty-four Members, if I am not mistaken. There seems to be a great zeal for the legalisation of triangular transactions carried out by large business groups in the country. The cost of this amendment, after exempting from fines by large groups, is estimated at close to EUR 1 billion. It seems that previous governments were able to cut off pensions, so they fined large corporate groups. At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of Parliament's Department of Stenography and Practice) But I kept for the end of the thirteenth intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u30	It's juicy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u31	And meddling!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u32	I don't know if it's fussy, but it's a pharmacopoeia that you did in Greek justice, not that I'm trying to bring it to the memory of the Greek people today. The third is the worst of all interventions. Because it was not simply intended to settle a particular case or to defend a particular person, but it was much more aimed at controlling the election result itself for the appointment of the heads of the country's provincial courts and tribunals. We are talking here, ladies and gentlemen, about direct interference in the self-government of the courts with the amendment by the then Minister of Justice of the Government of Samaras, Mr Athanasios, who, a few days before the election in the courts of the country, changed the electoral system to favour his chosen ones. And you know, this complaint is a complaint from the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, which I will present in the minutes and verify, I think, every word of my words. So I'm reading you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, please say what he says. Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Athanasios, if you please, you can answer. I will read what I have noted to read. I put all the documents in the Minutes. It's the seventeenth in the order of the Minutes. We're talking about evidence and we'll have the dialogue as much as you want. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He said, then, then, that the Association of Judges and Prosecutors: "The surpriseing amendment of such an important amendment to the institution of self-government of the courts of law, and even a few days before the elections, creates a lot of questions. The introduction of two crosses of preference for the election of the President or the public prosecutor instead of one, as is currently the case, which constitutes a change of importance, which may obviously affect the outcome, created to all judicial officers the suspicion that the provision could facilitate the creation of informal alliances, as well as could facilitate the election of a candidate, even as a Deputy.’ That's what the Association of Judges and Prosecutors says, not me, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u35	Why don't you read it all, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u36	And what purpose, then, was served by this intervention? I don't have to tell you that. The Panhellenic and, above all, they know that those who are often densely present at the Athens Court of Appeal, even though their beloved team is not Panathinaikos. So these, ladies and gentlemen, are real interferences in justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u37	And the choice of leadership is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u38	These are real interventions in justice and not the fact that a prosecutor asked to speak with the Deputy Minister, responsible for corruption cases, who urged her not to put a case in the file that concerns Cyprus' justice and, of course, the Greek public. These are interventions, no pretexts, no shame and no illusions. This was also the system of co-government of the New Democracy - PASOK of the three years 2012-2015, which today has the courage to blame us for interference in justice. Of course, one wonders whether one should laugh at their nerves or cry against them, about hypocrisy and moral collapse. Because we must admit that - everyone knows - there have always been problems in the relationship between justice and executive power. There have always been pressures and interventions. But during the three years of the Samara - Venizelos government, the ball was literally lost. Every check has been lost. He reaped a system of misappropriation that the country has not seen since the restoration of democracy. You know what, though? The interventions are not exhausted in acts or amendments. Often, even omissions are interventions. And omissions in previous years were many. I will mention only a few of them. First and foremost it was the failure to surrender to control, to the competent tax authorities, the famous Lagard list. Their original argument was that they forgot. They have then discovered a pretext, namely that it is an illegal means of proof. After the outcry they had to hand it over to the prosecutors, the checks progressed at a turtle rate. It is characteristic that the assurances from the control of the Lagard list in 2014, i.e. on the co-government of Samaras - Venizelos, were only EUR 26.6 million, while in 2015 the statement of amounts reached EUR 175.4 million. We are talking about an increase close to 600%. And here, it seems who wants and who doesn't want to hit the tax evasion and money laundering in the country. Of course, your zeal to protect your tax-raising friends is such that you have denounced us and above, because we have given the procedural tool to justice, so that it has been unleashed to complete its investigations. I am, of course, talking about the amendment by the Ministry of Justice, which closes once and for all the question of the legality of the use of lists as a means of proof.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u39	What did the Union of Judges say about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u40	Please don't interfere!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u41	What angers the average citizen is what he recently saw the light of publicity: Your conscious failure to cooperate with the German authorities in identifying Greek tax-payers with statements in Switzerland, despite the clear invitation of the Minister of Finance of the State of Rhineland-Westphalia, an omission of consciousness, which complements and confirms the image that I have already described. In this case, Mr Mitsotakis, the worst thing is that the refusal to cooperate was imposed by Maximos and the then Prime Minister Samaras at the hand of his Secretary-General Mr Bourras, as is apparent from the letter of the then Consul of Greece to Düsseldorf. As we speak of omissions and oligopolysms, I need to refer to this point and to the genuinely embarrassing situation of the political system created by the constitutional invention of Article 83 of the Constitution on the responsibility of the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u42	Article 86 is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u43	The damping deadline for the two undeclared parliamentary periods is indeed due to the fact that it works as a washing machine for the possible responsibilities of the former Ministers. You have been protected by the examination of a number of criminal cases, which have just been dropped because of this deadline. In particular, during the IE' Parliamentary Period, the period from June 2012 to January 2015 elections, hundreds of thirty documents were sent to the parliament. The VI Parliamentary Period, from Genaris to June 2015, was transmitted thirty-nine and the current one have already been transmitted twenty-six. At a quick glance, we are locating alleged times when crimes were committed in 2003, even in 2001. And the question arises: Why does it take more than a decade to get these pleadings to the House? Who's delayed, who's stalling, and what for? But you know, this technology of oblivion has to end sometime. On my proposal to the President of Parliament, I will request that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament carry out all the proceedings in order to establish the timing of the offences, the length of the criminal proceedings and the length of the distance between criminal prosecution and the transmission to Parliament by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and the Minister of Justice concerned. Because we all have a responsibility towards the Greek people and the Greek people have a right to know. And you should know that there are proceedings that have been transmitted to the House during the current period, which are not going to enjoy any benefits at all. And of course, I commit, once again by this Step, something that, as I know, is also a proposal from all the parties - I think you have made it yesterday - that, with the constitutional review, this shame of the law on the responsibility of Ministers and the ministers should be dealt with as every citizen should. Because in democracy no citizen can be more equal than the others, as Orwell would say. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, the arrogance and arrogant fanaticism of the system that you have built has been so great and such that his immunity, which, in fact, was quite frankly, before, planning this speech, this intervention, I did not know where to begin and where to finish. Because, apart from covering up and protecting his benefactors and friends, this system now appears to have been the same, which in many cases has been the organizer of corruption over the past few years. After all, this famous case of Mr Papastavrous, and even with new evidence of publicity, is a flagrant example that works as a legend and symbol - I would say - of the destiny of the old political system. According to documents held by the Greek authorities, we have today read that, from the British Virgin Islands, Mr Samaras' close associate, who from this step one year ago had said to us: "I wish we could have another ten of these," he claims, was not just a manager of the accounts on the Lagard list, as he claims, nor a proxy of another businessman. On the contrary, it appears as the beneficiary of the account and owner of the offshore company. In addition, it appears from its e-mail with the Virgin Islands that since 2012, when, in other words, the control of its ‘subjects’ began, it seems to take action to show itself as a mere account manager and not as owner. These figures - so that you do not rush to say again this nonsense about paradoxes, which controls you - are in Parliament. He's in knowledge of the members of the Commission. The crucial political question, however, Mr Mitsotakis, which concerns you and not Mr Samaras, who has not accepted to attend this debate today, as he has not accepted for so many years, is why you are covering this twin Samara - Papastavrous and whether you will continue to cover it. I really don't understand why a newly elected President of the New Democracy doesn't get away from his party's dark recent past. Honestly, I cannot understand - and I would like to see an honest explanation - why you are covering Mr Papastavrous. You cover him, as if he were your partner or even more, as if he were your partner. It's a question, which is good for you to make it clear, Mr. Mitsotakis. Also, questions that you should be giving birth to and the famous “assumption of blackmailers”, which, of course, has taken the path of justice, because the relations of the blackmailing circuit with New Democracy have been the least closest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u44	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u45	Fifty-three minutes is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u46	It's widened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u47	Go ahead, we need more!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u48	Quiet, Mr. Georgiadis. Please! Prime Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u49	It disturbs you, but I will conclude my speech, because still those words that may irritate you most, I have not said them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u50	Don't keep us in agony!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u51	You'll hear them, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u52	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u53	So I said that it turns out, from what they have seen the light of publicity, that the relationships of this circuit with the New Democracy were at least narrow, one could say. I advise you, in fact, rather than threatening your political opponents by law, because they are asking you to explain them, to give these explanations, Mr Mitsotakis, for the services offered by Mr Mussas, who have for years been advisor to the New Democracy, to the party of the Officerial Representation, but for which very services were those for which the invoices have been issued, which have seen the light of publicity, of the Members of the New Democracy, by Mr Maurikos. You should, of course, tell us if there are any other invoices. I look forward to a clear answer at last. In order not to trouble you any more, I am closing this creepy review of your actions and your omissions, your interventions in justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u54	Please don't cause!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u55	We need more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u56	But I am closing down with a reference to something that is perhaps the scandal of the scandal, which is not about the last three years of governance. Maybe it's the metapolitan scandal. Over the last three years of governance has been the cover-up. I imagine you've already figured out what I mean. I am referring to the great scandal, the 'SIEMENS' scandal and the unacceptable extrajudicial compromise signed between the Greek State and the 'SIEMENS'. Everyone in the country knows the details of this case. Everyone knows that the first PASOK-New Democracy confrontation with Mr Papademos - then I think it was Mr Stagioras - attempted to pass this compromise from Parliament and retreat at the last minute under the general outcry. However, the Samara - Venizelou Government, apparently, did not have such moral suspensions. On August 23, the extrajudicial compromise was ratified by the Greek Parliament and was then signed in due course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u57	Remove him from a law!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u58	So he tried to wash off.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u59	Quiet, please! Wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u60	So he tried to wash off both the civil staff involved in the case and the company itself. And I would remind you that the amount that it accepted, on the basis of this compromise, that the German company 'SIEMENS', in cash and in kind, was only EUR 200 million, when the Committee of Inquiry of the Greek Parliament in 2010 calculated the Greek State's damage to EUR 2 billion. I would therefore like to inform the House today that the government intends to set up a committee of experts and political leaders, claiming that this compromise should be renegotiated with SIEMENS. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I call on you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, and you, Mr Mitsotakis, take part in this committee. Besides, your acquaintances with faces and executives of the company may be very useful to finally achieve something better for the place!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u61	That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u62	So behold, Rhodes, behold, and fuck! I am anxiously awaiting your answer, I am anxiously awaiting your positive contribution. Participate in this committee, so that, finally, there is something positive about this place, after a pile of scandals over the past few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. It is clear that there will be the same tolerance in speaking time for all the other leaders, if they need it in their speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and four educational sessions from the Kabani Kilkis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor is held by the Chief of Staff Response and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, don't bother putting time. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my disagreement with the Prime Minister on today's debate. Mr Tsipras, in a normal democratic European country, the functioning of justice should not be the subject of a debate by the House. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In the normal democratic states of Europe and the Western world, everyone respects the sacred principle of separation of powers and the full and complete independence of justice. Both of these fundamental principles are at the core of the rule of law, they are at the core of democracy itself. But today's Greece of Mr. Tsipras is far from being a normal democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And make something clear from the beginning, Mr. Tsipras. You're not a prosecutor in this conversation. You're indicted. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're accused of your serial lies, of the worst, most, the greatest lies he's ever told Prime Minister. You are accused, because you have received from the previous government a state of dissolution, lawlessness and limited national sovereignty, a country isolated in Europe. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You are accused, because even today, you and your ministers pretend to be negotiating, but in practice you are dismantling the economy and making the lives of the Greeks much worse. You are accused of betraying the dreams and hopes, even those who believed you, especially the weakest Greeks who have seen the hope of a change in your face, but who are actually experiencing the worst version of post-political populism. So don't move the finger, Mr. Tsipras! You are the main responsible for the tragic situation in which the country is today! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, everyone is aware of the real reason why Mr Tsipras took the initiative for today's debate. This is no other than the need to transfer the agenda for political dialogue. Prime Minister, I feel the need to show you a nice sketch of Arka. 'Yes, look there'. He's probably referring to you, showing a hypothetical scandal when you get the Greek wallet. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is the real reason why you have provoked today's debate. Because Mr Tsipras wants us to talk about the complex, as he at least defines, so that we do not discuss unemployment, overtaxation, poverty, the refugee problem, the tragic situation of public health, the dissolution of public education. You want to build enemies to hide the collective depression in which, unfortunately, your own policy has submerged the country. Mr Tsipras cannot stand the debate on the real problems of the citizens of the country and cannot stand it, because he has said the most, the biggest and the worst lies he has ever told Prime Minister since postmopulation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He does not care about the future of the country, he does not care about poverty and misery of the citizens. One thing concerns him: how he will remain in power, in every way and by every means. One portrays the left and the other is taking a picture with Mrs Gennimata, with the European socialists, but at the corner always, 'the attachment', as they say. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I imagine that you are capable of passing through the European People's Party at our next meeting, because for people like you, you know, "the purpose is a sanctuary of the means" and in every way, this purpose of staying in power must be served, even if that means the dismantling of the rule of law. I wonder many times whether Mr Tsipras really understands whether you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, really understand the current situation in the country. We are experiencing all Greek citizens, especially the weakest, hard sacrifices with parallel overturns in the lives of the citizens. But all the twists are always worse. A sense of absolute uncertainty and resignation is inspired. The unemployed do not hope for anything, the workers are afraid, the middle-class is subject to an unprecedented tax storm, farmers and pensioners are struggling, the real market is narrowing, the companies are looking for how to leave Greece and the new generation is seeing only dead ends. Greece today, yours, Mr. Tsipras, looks like an ungrateful ship in the perfect storm, isolated as ever in Europe and the Balkans. The northern border of the country is closed, the east remains well open to human soul smugglers, the guarding of the sea borders has been assigned to NATO and the management of the refugee has been assigned to non-governmental organisations. The state is nonexistent and is unable to guarantee the security of citizens. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The European Union's agreement with Turkey: As we have warned you, it has enormous difficulties in implementing. You still have not ratified the relevant legislation in Parliament, so that you can implement it. And, of course, the tragic terrorist strike in Brussels is making it even more difficult to implement and the country, today we are talking about, is being flooded by tens of thousands of refugees and immigrants, who are roaming around and staying in terrible conditions. I went to Idomeni, Mr. Tsipras, and I'm shocked by what I saw. You dare go on the ground too, see the results of your policy, which you are so proud of. Your so-called humanism, the supposed humanism of the Left, sinks into the mud of Idomen. And I wonder why the government has shown such incompetence in this top humanitarian and national problem. Why are you embarrassed, Mr. Tsipras, by these images of Greece? And why, today, when the tourist season begins, do you allow Piraeus, the largest port in the country, to become a new Idomen? While you knew the dangers, why did you let the problem get such nightmares? And why do you also allow your ministers to make such ridiculous statements about refugee investors, which not only humiliate the government - that is what you say we do not care so much - but are passing through the country abroad? I don't know, Mr. Tsipras, if you'll be able to make the migrant investors, but with your nonsense you will make all the migrant investors! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And at the same time, the image of the public health system, day after day, becomes tragic, your hospitals still do not have administrations and have great shortages. Of course, in education, standard schools are being dismantled. And after you have made sure with your previous Minister that you deceive excellence, now the government has also been forced to close private schools. Of course, on the front of so-called negotiation with institutions, we are once again becoming spectators of the same malicious work, red lines fading, but the evaluation is not closing. And if we believe what is leaked by the relevant ministers, the government is preparing a new unprecedented medium-sized tax storm and small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of the economy, are being exterminated, with charges exceeding 80% and the free traders are disproportionately punished by contributions that kill any real incentive to work. The real economy is sinking into uncertainty and insecurity. But in all your lies there was a Minister who told the truth: 'The bad things are over, the worst things are coming!' [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Alexiadis was quite right in this conversation, except that society can no longer withstand your monumental incapacity and wherever you look today, your soul blacks in Greece. It is not just the financial crisis. The crisis has become a global crisis in our society and our country. And the worst you know what it is? That people begin and are compatible with this levelling, they accept the logic that this is our destiny, but that is not the future that the Greeks deserve, Mr Tsipras! Our country can do much and the country can rediscover its course and get away from the stagnation. But this requires compass, right course through the fence, with fixed helmet and direction to secure ports and, of course, a good captain with a plan, vision and will, but a vision true, not a pollen like what you used to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u65	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u66	But SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence has nothing to do with it. It is incompetent and ineffective and only welding is the precipitation of power. We have all seen it again in Mr. Kammenos's recent episode with Mr. Muzala. I see both of them in the cabinets yet. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Air words, so-called national sensitivities, and finally, as if nothing had happened, Mr Cammene, all together in the ministerial chairs! Do you know what that's called? Self-confidence! But emotiveness and responsibility are words unknown to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that is why this government's last refuge is the directing of a nice soap opera of the supposed struggle against strife and corruption. By summer we had a fear, the memorandum and Mrs Merkel. Now you signed a third memorandum, became, I see, an extremely good friend with Ms. Merkel and swallow with the next fear, corruption and strife. You are a collapsed government, unable to deal with the problems that you yourself have created, and that is why you want to create a climate of criminalisation of political life. To get away from the mud of Idomeni, throw mud into the fan of interplanetary! You are launching the systematic decline of public life, a fall which unfortunately follows the rapid poverty of the Greek people, while the refugee shows the non-existence of the state. I warned you, Mr Tsipras, and since my previous speech, that you are on a slippery road and I have likened your Government to an iceberg. Under the white top of the so-called Memorandum Compliance effort a dark tumor is hidden, the dark tumor of a government that deliberately despairs and weakens the institutions, which the state is facing as a spoil, to appoint friends and friends, which undermines the pluralism of information, of course... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You'll hear them. Don't worry. Now I've just begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u67	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u68	...and, of course, that intervenes rawly and unregulatedly in the independence and neutrality of justice. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In other words, in your knowledge and with a programme - here you have a programme - you are setting up a regime, outside and beyond the institutions. You are a mechanism for exercising psychological violence for every opponent of yours. But that won't pass you. And if you think that with your practices you'll terrorize us, you're making a huge mistake. We're not afraid of you, as much as I've covered in bankrupt forms, if you order! We won't give in to any blackmail! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Tsipras, listen to it well: Greece will remain a European democratic country, whatever you have in mind. And the Constitution, for which in your first speech only you did not tear from this Step, will not be violated by a government, which has already lost the confidence of the vast majority of Greek society. We won't let you. No matter how much headlines you order, you will not be allowed by the Greek people themselves, whom you have deceived, but by whom you are now understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u69	Please don't worry down. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u70	The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is at the forefront of the battle for the institutional shield of our democracy. We have our responsibilities too. I had the courage to take care of them in the past. But this party has played timeless struggles to deal with corruption and complexity. Let me remind you - for those who do not remember - that Constantine Mitsotakis invented the term 'complex' and was fought by the media as no one could. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You will remember this, I imagine, Mr. Tsipras, unless you were too busy at the time with school occupations. Let me remind you that Costas Karamanlis clashed with interests and attempted to break the umbilical cord between contractors, suppliers and media owners. Of course the last government of Antonis Samaras, which stabilised the country, was also in the end - we ministers remember it very well - in the face of almost all the communication systems. But you, Mr. Tsipras, did not bear any sins of the old establishment. Your strongest weapon, when you stood for the first time at this very Step, was that, you were young and indestructible. But what did you do? Within one year you have adopted all the bad habits of post-multiplation to the supranational extent, without showing any of the achievements of the last forty years. You turned out to be older than the old one, with which you were supposed to get over with. And instead of you getting over with the old one, the country got into the oldest and most extremist old-fashioned and populist attitudes. You led the country to the edge of the cliff. You broke into our homeland abroad, you poored the middle class. You symbolize the defeat of a country that has become a shadow of itself and you have the courage to come to this Chamber and ask for the change from New Democracy. It's too much to shake the finger of Chohazopoulou's orphans, which you gathered, Mr. Tsipras, to SYRIZA! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So listen to it. We don't owe anyone, we're not afraid of anyone and we're not blackmailing anyone. And lessons of seriousness, responsibility, dignity, ethos, honesty on the parade of Constantine Karamanlis you cannot give. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] From the first moment you took over governance, you had only one purpose, the deportation of the state, the control of justice and the creation of a new, your neo-dimensional system. You're not worthy of the complexion. You build your own new strife and you are also turfmens of the interests behind the new strife, which you are building. So to remember a few of your works and days. The handling of the National Broadcasting Council by the Government, the epitome of authoritarianism. In order to control the median landscape as it suits you, you have removed important responsibilities from the Independent Authority and even assigned them not to the Government, but to one person, your beloved Minister of State, the national super-Canal, your executive arm, Mr. Pope. This is the definition of the dismantling of the rule of law, in complete contrast with the country's constitution! And mix the candy - now it's good! - that he's fighting you all the mediator establishment, Mr. Tsipras. Really? Half of your ministers were a star of the morning zone before the elections. Have we forgotten? So don't pretend to be the victim. You are sarx of the flesh of demagogic populism, which has for many years been dominated by the media - has dominated the country. Of course public opinion is amazed at recent revelations about your secret meetings. Except for the known cat, no one really knows what was said. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The question is one and it arouses all Greeks. Why would the fighter of interlocutory meet secretly with a baron of interlocutory, to use your own expressions and why did you need not one, but two, three, four meetings, to say what? A proud "OT"? Or was the "OH" like the "OH" of the referendum, which eventually became "NE"? [[Laughing and applause from the New Republic ward]] You know I don't care what you gave and what you got in these secret discussions. You know that and the other person involved. What everyone knows is you've entered secret bargains. Of course, I don't know what these bazaars gave up, but I can't forget the red headline of the Step on the day of your election, as well as the second headline of the Youths "Tsipras Ecstasy" when you won in September. I don't see them very hostile on your face. [[At this point the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned headlines, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I heard with great interest today that you want to check on the media loans. Good for you! You're gonna be okay. With you and me. I have one question to ask, though. The biggest cannon that's ever loaded in the media, the ALTER, will you check it out? Because if I remember correctly in this case the banks lost more than EUR 400 million, and there is still one case pending with fake and virtual invoices of EUR tens of million. Can't I imagine this editor being excluded from control because he's now knitting you the ego and going into Maximus? We know who your supporters are, Mr. Tsipras, and we know what they expect of you as exchanges for the support they provide. So don't insult either the intelligence or memory of the Greek people, because it goes very well, Mr. Tsipras, you, the favourite child of youthism speak of morality and transparency! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the interventions at the core of the rule of law are not limited to the attempt to control the broadcasting landscape. You are conducting interventions to all the Independent Authorities. You have an allergy to every institution that controls the action of the executive. You cannot handle control, transparency and accountability, because the lie in which you live does not have rules. The truth requires rules and rules of truth, the institutional joints of the rule of law, you systematically trample on them. You're talking about corruption, Mr. Tsipras. But, you know, corruption is not just the dispersal of public money. Corruption is also the level downwards. Conscience corruption is the worst form of corruption. The flattery of moderate and ignorant majority, the celebrity leveling of worthy and worthless is the worst form of corruption. The populism, whose most original expression you are, is the worst form of corruption. The exploitation of the weak and psychological weaknesses of a afflicted society is the worst form of corruption. You filled us with best friends, advisors, party drones without knowledge, without experience, with only qualification that they were friends, your relatives. You systematically press excellence, because you cannot stand it and because obviously neither can it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have made graphic choices that cause thousands of worthy young people who do not have opportunities to move on in their lives. Because every Karanic person you hire is a fist in the stomach of Greece that struggles, struggling and still hopes for a stubbornness of the times. We are sick of this candy that all these people are supposed to be posthumous and not permanent. So, the posters aren't hired with merital criteria? Should they not have studied, spoken foreign languages, offered to public administration?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u71	Fifty-two.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u72	Please don't talk. Please. Just a minute, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u73	You're enforcing order. I see a lot of nervousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u74	Please! Mr. Darkness, Mr. Kumucako, please. Don't start saying names. Let's listen with care. Mr. Mitsotakis, continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u75	The false left of modesty and minor effort has no right in this Chamber to speak of any moral advantage. Your moral advantage was only in words. It has sinked in the gutter of populism, which is so consistently served by the SYRIZA and ANEL coexistence. You spoke today about lists. I thought at some point you'd forget them and I was worried. In practice, you have done nothing serious and essential to make use of them. I have a question. I was looking at the ministerial benches. Where is this promising Minister, Mr Nikoloudis, who said a year ago that 3.5 thousand cases of tax evasion had been identified and that he could collect 2.5 billion to 3 billion out of 7 billion cases in the first year? I imagine if he had succeeded, you wouldn't have to cut off pensions and raise taxes. Where is Mr. Nicoludis today? Did it because in a crisis of honesty it admitted in April 2015 that control of the Lagard list is a difficult and time-consuming case and can collect this money, but in a depth of five or six years? Or did you expelled him because he ruined your populist account? Or why wouldn't he agree to play the play of interventions like his successor? But the truth, Mr. Tsipras, is irreversible because you raised less money in 2015 than in 2014. They didn't tell you well, you know. I have here the official press release of Mr. Tryphona Alexiadis, who says that in 2014 the number of cases checked was a hundred forty-three and ninety-five. In 2015, eighty were checked and thirty-eight completed. Good for you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. We're talking about such a great efficiency. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, the fund is minus, Mr Tsipras, because he himself sent a very enlightening document to Parliament a few days ago. What does that document say? That the proceeds from criminal acts of our own day were 26 million. How much is it on your day? It's 3.4 million. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm filing it. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Congratulations on your effectiveness and on this front. Mr. Juliarakis says it. I guess you don't question them. Now of course you remembered the Borgians list again. You really surprised me. I didn't expect you to do it. You remembered her the last time you knew I was not in the House, as I had miserable obligations. You've reached the point where you've been cutting off Borgians' answers to alter their content. Because in your previous presence in this Step, you submitted a letter. But as the song says, you read it half this letter. What you did not read and said by Mr. Boryans is: "At that time, the subject" - listen to it, it is interesting - "it was not the list, which we delivered last November through the Central Tax Office to the Greek Government. This link to Greek beneficiaries was only possible in 2015. The objective of the 2012 debate was possible evidence of Greek taxfamilies.’ So I, Mr Tsipras, put down all the document you have not read. Do you know what that's called? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Deception is called, Mr Tsipras, the National Representation and the Greek people. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also present a document from the Consulate General of Greece in Düsseldorf - which you, too, expressly invoked - shows that after Mr Tsiara's visit in January 2013, what did he do? He praised the reform efforts of the Greek Government in the economic and public sector and expressed his readiness to transfer know-how. No list was there then, Mr. Tsipras, as you are trying to convince us. I am tabling this document in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But if you want to deal with lists, I can suggest you take some other lists seriously. I suggest the list of friends and relatives you appointing. I'll call her Caranica list. [[Noise - laughers from the wing of the New Republic]] The list of civil servants who made big sums abroad and whom you haven't checked yet, I'll call it Alexiadis list. The list of public officials who returned to their service will be named Kurubli's list. Of course, the list of reforms in the real economy that never happened, that's what I'm going to call a Stathakis list. These are the real lists you need to deal with, instead of dealing with how to muddle political opponents. I come now, ladies and gentlemen, to the questions of justice, so to see your works and days in this critical area. In the last crises, you took so deep a dive in the yearbook, you'd be jealous of the best diver! Few people know from those who are listening to us - they know a lot of people in this Chamber - that you changed the night of the referendum to three o'clock at dawn the President of the Ice Bay. Obviously, having decided to lead the country to elections, you wanted a man of your own as a ministerial prime minister and to the same man, of course, you are giving disciplinary authority and the opportunity to relinquish prosecutors. Nowhere in the world are single-faced judges controlled by single-faced bodies. I heard you told us there was disciplinary powers in a number of institutions. Don't you trust them, Mr. Tsipras? Do you not trust those who today exercise disciplinary control over justice? Why did you also have to give disciplinary control to the President of the Ice Bay? The string of events - because it is not just one - and complaints from senior judicial officers show the very opposite of what you said, your pursuit of suffocating political control in justice. The government very often - you as Prime Minister - proclaims or threatens to do so through forthcoming judicial actions. These are incomprehensible things in a serious democratic country. The functioning of the judiciary is under close supervision, especially the handling of criminal proceedings, their assignment and to which prosecutors and their movement at all stages of the proceedings. The mechanisms for disciplinary control are multiplying and are moving intensively. We are experiencing a special public prosecutor's authority and for the first time, in fact, there are two Ministers for Justice, Minister and Vice-President, Deputy to monitor the critical cases, those that are a political priority for the government. Where have these things been heard again, have there been cases in justice that are a political priority? Of course, the Deputy Minister - read the Constitution a little - does not harm publicly against some and some other public prosecutors. It considers it appropriate to carry out certain disciplinary checks and to carry out others incorrectly. It characterises a judiciary coup d'état to arrest any judicial crisis that deviates from the government's preliminary announcements. Recent complaints raise a number of relentless questions. The first and most obvious is this: has Mr Papagelopoulos intervened or not intervened in the work of justice? You have presented us here with a number of legislative interventions. I do not want to teach you any lessons of constitutional law, but the adoption of a law is not an interference with justice, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The laws are passed, discussed, you can agree or you can disagree. Others are the speeches you have made and other contributions I refer to. Did the Deputy Minister request or did he not ask the Advocate-General, as she himself denounces, and as he himself agrees, to return the case-file which was legally entrusted to it? Tell us, by what provision of law are these confirmed communications permitted and with what competence did it communicate? And where he heard Deputy Minister of Justice rushing and invading a closed conference of judges to make sure they do their job well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u76	It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u77	If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u78	And one last thing. Do you think it is right to lead such a sensitive sector a man who had been commander of the NSA? Don't you think there might be an obvious incompatibilities? So these are the questions that need to be answered today and that is what the people want to know to know about the real conditions in justice. They won't answer today. However, they will be answered on Thursday in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which you are avoiding, like the devil, the ink. Because that is where all the parties involved will come to testify and I imagine if that is necessary. And then you won't be able to hide the truth anymore behind your communication fireworks. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. Until yesterday you were targeting judges. Now you're targeting your political opponents, with the same methodology. How is it possible for the Government's representative to adopt publications containing inappropriate talks, which are in no way linked to the case of blackmailers? Because this is where a very nice one has been set up. Can I explain it to you in simple words? Someone knows the contents of the talks - I don't know who - they're leaking part of a form, the form illegally publishes it, and immediately afterwards, the actual orchestra, the government, comes to raise the issue politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u79	The Committee on Institutions and Transparency will be invited to this 'one'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u80	This is a parastate, Mr. Tsipras, and you're setting it up methodically. And do you have the nerve to come here and talk about transparency? You should be ashamed of yourself! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Let me not forget, given that you referred to the case of blackmailers, Mr Maurikos in particular, with whom, as you claim, the New Democracy may have had some financial relations, to inform you that I have personally filed a complaint with Mr Maurikos for a series of reports against my face. With these articles Mr Mavrikos, as you know, has put against Mr Meimarakis and against Mr Samaras, I have a series of headlines here. I guess if he was in New Democracy's payroll, he wouldn't write that kind of thing. Well, you can explain why, on 8-4-2015, NERITT signed the renewal of a private mutual advertising agreement - with whom? - with the company "MYRIKOS AEBE"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u81	Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u82	What's going on here, Prime Minister? I don't understand. Give us an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u83	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u84	Please, no voices, only applause.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u85	So these voices, Mr. Tsipras...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u86	Not japs. Please, Mr. Mitsotakis, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u87	And so, by controlling justice and destroying the rule of law, you can gather powers without precarious and democratic control. I wonder, Mr Tsipras, what forced the prosecutor of the Ice Bay perhaps in her last public position in a shocking speech, which he made in December last year, to highlight the constitutionally guaranteed distinction between powers. Why was the Attorney of the Ice Arrow forced to take off that speech? Why did the Attorney of the Ice Bay have to say it self-evident, to urge judges to remain committed to their work, far from any kind of intervention? From the Greek Parliament, then, I send a clear message: Let the judges do their job unnecessarily! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And from the Greek Parliament I call on the judges - and I know that in the vast majority they honour their oath and work in difficult conditions - not to be afraid and hesitant to denounce any interference in their work, whatever it may be. And know that those who enter the temptation to play games with justice will account for as high as they are. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at questions of justice and rights, we should really put aside our personal ideological convictions. It is the only way we can ensure freedom and pluralism. For us, Mr Tsipras, freedom and solidarity are the basic principles of our ideology. And freedom presupposes a word that is unknown to you, tolerance and respect for political dissatisfaction. The neutrality of the institutions of justice, but also of the independent authorities, to the extent that they exercise judicial control, arises from the need for tolerance against political disagreement. It is only with the neutrality of the institutions of justice that freedom is truly guaranteed. These are the foundations of democracy throughout the world. And these foundations just you want to erod. For me personally, the fight against corruption and interlocutory and transparency everywhere is a commitment and a proclaimed objective. And be more careful when addressing me, Mr Tsipras, because two months ago four hundred five thousand citizens came to the polls and elected me as President of the New Democracy. And my candidacy wasn't supported by either candidadors or masters. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You know well that I started as the ultimate Undersider. Well, not at all. I've turned all over Greece. I asked the citizens to stand up from the couch, take their laps in their hands and do so. They showed me confidence. That trust is my duty to return it. And this confidence and my choice were based precisely on the hope of the Greeks that we can bring something new into the political life of the country, to put an end to the party state, to return hope, worthy democracy, dignity. I don't have any dependencies, and I'm not going to have any. I exchange my strength from these citizens who see New Democracy today as the only realistic force, which can once again unite Greeks and Greeks. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I did not hide the financial problems that New Democracy has. I pointed out the financial problem. In fact, I have presented a difficult, hard economic consolidation plan. This is a project that respects taxpayers' money, respects the obligations of the loans and brings full transparency to the finances of the New Democracy. I'm not hiding the problem. I'm solving the problem. You dare do the same in SYRIZA's finances! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You dare to do the same in your own finances, first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u88	In the Committee of Inquiry, that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u89	Be quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u90	Well, I'm addressing the government, I'm also addressing all the MPs, because the responsibility you know here is personal. If there is a fundamental and real interest in dealing with conflict and corruption phenomena, yes, we could today agree to a minimum of three measures: A comprehensive constitutional review, as I have already proposed. The next House to deal actively with the diseases of the political system and to change the shameful article 86. Of course, do not refer to me and refer to Article 86, because I imagine you know that since 2006 I personally gave the relevant article a fight to change. And then, unfortunately, only ten colleagues were willing to take part in this effort. So a constitutional review. To agree on brave changes to the charter. The next House must review. Secondly, we must stop interventions in justice and abolish the provision in which a person exercises disciplinary control over prosecutors. Of course, even now, if you really have the courage, the question of how to grant television licences. Return responsibility to the ERR. Take her from the minister. Do not give only four licenses. Don't you understand that the four licenses frustrate the new complication? Don't you see that? Only with many licenses, with an unlimited number, can you really have the possibility of free information and information. Of course, if you wish, we could agree on a comprehensive anti-corruption plan, which has been drawn up on this day. He was submitted by the anti-corruption coordinator, Mr. Tenten. Let me remind you, of course, that in the relevant rankings the progress made between 2013 and 2015 was an improvement of twenty-five positions in the relative ranking. Just so we don't forget. So if you have elementary responsibility and consciousness of the critical conditions for the country, you have to take these initiatives. It is perhaps the only service you now have to offer at the place. But it is clear that now that social and political data are changing to the worst for you, your persuasive concept of power and institutions is becoming more and more persuasive. And this institutional shock of the country, Mr. Tsipras, cannot continue. Because the roots of democracy today are being put by the party carcinoma you have created and unfortunately spread aggressively at high speed. Your Government no longer has what to say in the field of economic policy, the management of refugees, foreign policy, security policy. Your entire account was overturned against the country, of course, I would add, and the government was stripped of its lies. In towns, villages, squares, it sounds like a help. Can you not hear it, closed in Maximos, along with your company system, which you call governance, with closed-up - who would expect it with 'first time left'? - The Herod Attica from the MATs, Mr. Tsipras. You have resigned from solving the problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u91	I see you're reading the Green Papers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u92	You will respond, I imagine, to Mr. Psyghis in your dentistry. The state is nonexistent and is unable to guarantee the security of citizens. Greeks and Greeks feel asphyxiation and also feel indignation. And this government is not just economic and socially painful. Unfortunately, it has also become nationally dangerous. For dare, Mr. Tsipras, see some of the highlands you made. You won't recognize her the way you did her. In the north closed borders, isolation and marginalization, the shame of Idomeni, the 'Dahau' of Mr Kurubli. On the islands of thousands - they have not yet arrived - hundreds of European officials along with Turkish police are attempting to manage immigration. Throughout the country dozens, hundreds of uncontrolled, many NGOs act willingly. Citizens feel insecure. The country is unarmed. The state is deaf. The real economy is sinking 15 months now. Capital controls everywhere, taxes, taxes, taxes and new taxes you want to bring. Families for the family, the retired, the third age. Unemployment and the crushed dreams of a youth, a young generation who makes suitcases to unearth. Your so-called victories proved to be debacle. Greece has now become, not only economical but also geopolitical, a country under comitology, under supervision. And today you have proved, Mr Tsipras, that you cannot function in a climate of fundamental understanding. I have often tried to cultivate this climate with you. But you don't want to. You want polarization, you want acidification, you want division, you want mudology. You cannot withstand understanding, because that is your nature. Because if you could withstand the understanding, your own insufficiency would appear to be the whole size. Where we've arrived you have only one beneficial decision to make for the place. If you can't rule, give up, Mr. Tsipras! Leave before you push the country into destruction! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] You have led the country three times to elections without any real national reason, but only to serve your own party objective. Now there is national reason: Greece can't stand you anymore! And as this House seems to be unable to give any other solution, let the people, Mr Tsipras, give the solution. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] Unfortunately, this is where we arrived - I honestly did not think I would say that, two months as Head of the New Democracy - the cost of your stay is greater than the cost of the removal process. But I don't have any delusions, Mr. Tsipras. Your passion for power is such that you will do what goes through your hand to stay hooked in the chair. But don't have any doubts. The river is not coming back and you will soon be privileged to be the newest former Prime Minister Greece has ever had. And only then will we get out of the stall. Only then will the country and democracy breathe. Only then will the Greeks unite again, the hope will be born and Greece will stand! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u93	Bravo, Miryako!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u94	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-eight students and students and four of their educational sessions from the 1st High School of Naxos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, has the floor for 15 minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please be quiet. Those who want to leave do it quietly. Sit down, everyone you're staying in the Chamber, please! Thank you very much. Mr. Michalop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u96	Yes, sir. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I speak on the subject of today's speech, I would like to give an answer to the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, who said a few days ago that we are the political descendants of the doctrinal government. Let me remind him that he was a member of the youth of New Democracy when the president of the New Democracy and Prime Minister of the country was George Rally. And this is the only case for a Prime Minister in Europe, where the son of the occupying Prime Minister became Prime Minister. But that's not all. He didn't happen to be just the son of the occupying Prime Minister. George Rallys - for those who do not know it - was also the defense attorney at the trial of his father's donors, Ioannis Rally, along with the law-approved then, the late Miltiadis Varvichiotis, to say names and to speak of donors. We should also talk about a Kilkis MEP - because he referred to those who left together with the German troops - who also left together and then became an MEP. As a Member of EPE, the Minister for Security of the regime of 4 August, Konstantinos Manadakis. So let the neo-democratics not speak to us, because we also know people and things. And at the bottom of the script, Golden Dawn entered the House in 2012. The New Democracy claims to be the political ancestors of the occupying governments. What did they vote for until then? Did they vote New Democracy? But let us come to today's point of intervention, which is being done in justice. In fact, being the victim of New Democracy's interventions in justice, I am currently indicted. I sat in prison eighteen months and should at least be ashamed to talk about this. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The beginning was made with a conclusion made by an anti-prosecutor of the Ice Arena. It took the Chohatzopoulou case five years to get the finding out. It took us seven days and no apologies. And immediately after we had our reference to justice, but not to our natural judges. A special corruption investigator has been selected. Why? Was the Golden Dawn case a corruption case? I have the answer here, in a document, which is in the case-file of the ENERGA case, which is well known to Members of the New Democracy, as they were advocates of defence. This is an e-mail of interrogator Spyridon Georgiou, the interrogator who kept me and my competitor Papa and my competitor John Rabbit. It has a date of 27 September at 6.20 p.m. He's in court, it's an official document. He is addressing one of his partners and says: "Mr. Fotiadis, good evening. I apologise for the abrupt termination of your phone, but I couldn't answer that moment because I participated in a meeting with the Ministry of Justice." Did you hear what I said? The last day of our arrest, the interrogator, who guarded us, was in a meeting with the Ministry of Justice! What was an interrogator doing at the Ministry of Justice? Then these gentlemen talk about interventions in justice. Besides, the then Minister for Justice, Mr Athanasios, has said in this House that he called at dawn, while I was going through interrogation, to the chief of staff, from abroad. What does a Minister of Justice have to do with taking the supervisor's lead while interrogating? If this is not an intervention in justice, what is it? We also had this particular - the entire Greek people attended - interviewed by the then Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, to the journalist of the MEGA television station, where, in answer to the question of whether our detention was due to political intervention, he said: 'If I wanted to, I could call them and tell them 'hold them'. Did you hear that? What did a Prime Minister say to the Greek people through a television frequency? That the Prime Minister has the opportunity to call judges and say "prison". If this is not an interference in justice, then what is true? However, because of the factual words that are in the wrong, he said, "but I did not, at least in the beginning." This is what the entire Greek people have heard. Suffice it to mention that all those who handled the Golden Dawn case had a bright future over the days of the Samara government. Others of the simple Nights became Teenagers Presidents, others became Heads, everyone went up. Looks like we brought 'em luck. The Golden Dawn case brought them very big luck. Then we had the guardianship in January 2014 of three Golden Dawn MPs and the famous audio documento online "Tell Panathenaikos to put them in". No one questioned the authenticity of this document. In fact, Mr. Athanasios said to tell us who he was talking to. Mr. Georgiadis said the arrest of the Prime Minister's phone call is a crime. The journalist himself, Mr. Kourtakis, at the "Parapolistic FM" and said that Samaras himself called him not to put this audio documento, because he's harming him. However, most important of all, it is not the audio document, but whether it had the result of the audio document, because they did put all three Members of the Golden Dawn in prison and even on a date prior to their apology. In particular, the document they gave was dated 8 January, when they were apologied on 11 January. A lawsuit was filed on this subject, which, as you know, entered the file. Absolutely related to this audio documento is the famous Baltaku video. Baltakos wasn't an accident, someone passing by, you know, who happened to be in the House. He was the Secretary-General of the Government, who directly tells in the video what has happened with these raw and brutal interventions in justice against us. And then SYRIZA said he would ask for a pre-dated debate in the House on the Baltaku video. He never did. We can now, as a government, have this debate and discuss it in detail. It is absolutely relevant - it has been removed, it is not in the Chamber at this time - and the question of the new Criminal Code, where the chairman of the committee, Mr Marquis, has left and said that in the new Criminal Code, the criminal organisations article will provide for the benefit of the financial benefit. And just because this change would acquit the Members of the Golden Dawn, the government insisted that the members of the committee never make this change and never testify to this Criminal Code. We then had events of laughter, for example that Samaras himself and his environment were speaking with Pakistani payphones, because they feared that they were being intercepted by the Golden Dawn talks. We also had the fact that your party, which saw the injustice that was being committed, did not go ahead with any protest and did not understand that when justice was affected, it does not matter whether the one affected is right, left, right-wing, far-wing, far-sighted. I would like to reveal to you at this point that a partner of the then Prime Minister, Samaras, whom I honor with my friendship and my trust, told me before I confiscated that they were going to confiscate you for a criminal organisation and then SYRIZA turns to the case in Skouria, where there are intercepts of two SYRIZA Members who were speaking with those who had attacked the premises there. I now come to the Siemens case. A few days ago, in the committee responsible, Mr Stournaras was presented. There was no word against this extrajudicial compromise, the provocative one, except by the representative of the Golden Dawn. I have heard that a new arrangement will be made. I hope it will be done and move on, but so far those who have taken the matter directly and without compromises have only been the Golden Dawn. And since we are talking about the 'SIEMENS' case, how accidental it is that the same prosecutor who rejects the requests of the Members of the Golden Dawn, it is he who recently proposed that the arrest warrants should be lifted against the Christophore should be lifted, because, he says, the ten million euro he gave to PASOK and the New Democracy was not a buy-out, it was a donation. And I wonder how it is possible for a benefactor to benefit both opponents at the same time. Was it because both PASOK and New Democracy were government parties? However, the ‘SIEMENS’ case goes farther. It goes back to 1990, to the universal government, because since then things have started to go where the Greek state has been damaged by two billion drachmas. I heard Mr Mitsotakis earlier. Did anyone hear anyone say that he doesn't protect Mr. Papastaurou from the Lagard list? The challenge towards him is straight. Why don't you talk about Papastaurus? Is it accidental, then, that the issue of the Lagard list is being covered, when Papastaurou was Prime Minister Samaras' right hand and we had reached the point that he was also a key interlocutor on our country's behalf with the troika? And I come to the most important and most recent. Mr Papastavros recently passed Greek justice and imposed a fine of EUR 3.5 million. And I ask, where is the honest but poor man - within many introductorys - found and paid EUR 3.5 million? Are the ones who are with him also his donors? So no answer for the Lagard list. No answer, of course, to the Boryarnes list, and also to the Faltsiini statement, which unfortunately did not mention it as Prime Minister, but even Mr Mitsotakis said a word on the part of the Vice-President. Faltsiani stated it directly. There are political names on the black lists on the Lagard list. As I would also like to mention the sensitivity of the New Democracy, which we see bailing on two main issues, two alone. One is the bankers and their interests and the other is the channels and the involvement. Insurance, agricultural, topic - so-called refugee - illegal immigration, which the country has literally broken down - does not say a word about all of this. All he touched them is why they took from the two materially competent prosecutors, the corruption prosecutors, a case of a banker who would prosecute, and gave it to another prosecutor - he was probably taken by another prosecutor - who put it in the file. Of course, the issue of the banks' sea bays is huge. The heteros have been eating gold spoons for decades. And I would like to say that in the red loans, in the sea loans, there are even loans from even Members of Parliament and even large-scale journalists. That is why there is this great protection. And, of course, what about this scandalous law, with which those bankers have been relieved of their criminal responsibilities for the loans of the parties? And because Mr Mitsotakis spoke earlier about the reorganisation of the New Democracy's finances, the debts of the New Democracy totalled EUR 214,000. The banks are the 197,000 euros. And all the channels came out, those of the interlocutory that supposedly fought him, and triumphed that he would house the party. The average interest rate today is 5%. Only for the interest rate wants 10,000,000 euros a year. And Mr Mitsotakis said he would give 60% of the party grant, which is less than 5,000 euros. He said he would give 2.5 million a year, i.e. about a quarter of the interest rate. What did Mr. Mitsotakis say in simple words? And you, as a government, finally, need to take a stand. He said to the Greek people: we will never pay the loans that you, suckers of Greeks, have paid. The same, of course, applies to the New Democracy, also to the PASOK. The 'Government of the Justice Sun', as the poet says, is something that must stand above all. Surely justice must be shielded to be truly independent. Because not only are interventions, but they are the moves of judges who act as an extortionist instrument. It's the promotions from councils. Furthermore, it must have the courage of a genuinely worthwhile government to choose the judges themselves and their leadership, which is not the case. Unfortunately, the SYRIZA Government has been late - it has been running for more than a year - to deal with these issues. Proof that it is late and that things are still rotten in the Kingdom of Denmark, is the recent disciplinary control carried out at "Mr. Isidor Isidor" as a smuggler, referring to Prosecutor Doyako, where he was relieved of the irregularity of his election as head of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office, abolishing not legal science but arithmetic. Because he said eleven - eleven was Doyakos - it's half his twenty. If eleven is half of 20, then they are legal. And yet, he went through this thing. I now come to the famous conflict. The complication lives and reigns. We really hope - we have serious reservations - that it be dissolved. However, appropriate responses must be given to the raw extortion of the Himalayan cats. These things should not be misled above public life. Golden Dawn supports the true, true justice, the work of honest judges, who are the majority, is extorted after abomination by all those who were the organs of political intervention, who even led to prison MPs of the Greek Parliament. He also denounces today's majority because he has been silent, and he was well aware of injustice. The Golden Dawn, however, will find its right and the sun will shine in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Independence of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotten Genres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister is out of the Chamber once again when the Chiefs speak. It has done so in practice and I cannot comment on it today. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the Prime Minister speak for about thirteen minutes, simply finding out as if it were a party of counter-population. And we heard him for about twenty minutes talking about thirteen legislation, thirteen laws. Listen, Prime Minister, since you failed to cancel the memorandum with a law and an article, I challenge you tomorrow morning to cancel all thirteen arrangements with a law and an article. You're government. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] What we are watching today has nothing to do with what the country needs, what the citizens expected us to hear today, about the consultation of the political forces in the field of institutions, justice, transparency, credibility and confidence. Transparency is not offered for barren controversy, party clashes and pharisal calls. The Greek people are entitled to know and they need to know the mistakes of all of us, the responsibilities, the omissions. We, Prime Minister - and I hope you will even monitor me from your office - will support your proposal for a review of all parties' and media loans. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But why, Prime Minister, do you not dare say 'yes' to the proposal that I have sent you since January for an Economic Committee of Inquiry from 2002 until today? Let's check it out! What are you afraid of at last, Prime Minister? And because, Mr Tsipras, you have also referred to the judiciary-exploited case of controversial business, I need rather to freshen up your memory. The relevant judicial investigation began and was based on our conclusion, the parliamentary majority of PASOK, of the pre-review committee on the Batopedi case. We, Mr Tsipras, sent this case to justice. Do you remember what you and your party did personally? I'll tell you what. You just did the duck. And we are not touched by your references to parties' finances. We have made all the necessary areas. We took all the measures. On our own initiative, we have made progress, on our own initiative, between all the parties, and we have exhausted controls. All the findings are already in the D.A.'s hands. And we reduced our operating expenditure by 96%. We have nothing to cover. We have nothing to fear at all. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So stop swinging our fingers and put the fingers in the type of sunshine. Do you want transparency and no slogans, Prime Minister? You want the truth and not the propaganda? If you dare, accept our proposal. We say: All in the light. Anyone who has violated the laws and has harmed the Greek people to pay whoever it is. That, of course, is not, you know, an alibi for intervention by the government in justice. Mr. Tsipras, you have no alibi for your actions. We arrived at the prosecutor's point of reference to the Deputy Minister of Justice of the Government for interventions in her work and the President of the Ice Bay turns against a constitutional professor for the criticism he has made in public. These are unprecedented things! Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate could indeed have been an opportunity, if it was not just another firework, distraction to get the government out of their dead ends, to disorientate the Greek people from the big problems, to try to point the opponents at complaints and allegedly revelations. It is an initiative of polaristic, biasing, all it reveals is the panic in which the government finds itself. Ball on the platform! What economy? What assessment? What taxes? What insurance? What refugees? But where do you live? Who's running? The SYRIZA system attempts to manipulate the state and justice by consciously abolishing the discrimination of powers. We are a country, which experiences, ladies and gentlemen, not only capital control, but also just just just just just Justice control. Prime Minister, the purpose does not justify the means, especially when your purpose is in every way to remain in power at any cost to the country. Mr Tsipras, I do not agree that you have lost every moral advantage. No, you haven't. You just never had it! You said you were every word of the Constitution. You took the step and erase the words one by one, but you're every word from the lies you've made and the promises you made. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Why have you not waited for the meeting of the Committee on Institutions and the explanations that Mr Papagelopoulos will give to discuss corruption in plenary later on? The Deputy Minister of Justice, who has nowadays been responsible for measures against corruption and interlocutory, should recall that it was the personal choice of the former Prime Minister, Kostas Karamanlis, in the sensitive position of Commander of the National Intelligence Service. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Look where we've arrived. Seven years later the Minister, Mr. Paramadopoulos, who for years had taught human rights and the rule of law, sees a former commander of secret services squeeze him in his office. And we're wondering, who really runs the Justice Department? Is this the dismissal minister or the D.A. Attorney? And unravelling the conservative press is visible with the naked eye that Mr. Papagelopoulos enjoys special support. It looks like family fights all this and you are afflicting Parliament today with trenches and, of course, you are fighting the climate. You need that. It is, of course, a problem for the New Democracy too. We must move away from the problems and from the problems and priorities of justice itself, because, according to the World Bank, 50% of the country's competitiveness problem is due to the slow administration of justice. Therefore, instead of discussing the substance of the matter today, you have once again preferred polarization, divisive logic, threats and impressions and end up in a mud-slash attempt failed. At the same time, in a government just a few months, there are cases of amnesia among your executives. Others forget to transfer shares, others make inaccurate statements “wherever you are.” Of course, I am not a judge to decide, but, Mr. Tsipras, you are neither archangel of clearance. As soon as within fourteen months of rule the king is naked and upon the debris of his rhetoric hatred, division and lies, morality begins. Last sanctuary before the total collapse of the Tsipra - Kammeni government twin the so-called battle against corruption and interlocutory. Let's be clear. For what independence do you have? The Government and any government may not be involved in the judicial management of cases. By what right does the Deputy Minister for Justice intervene in the judicial proceedings for the performance of her duties? With what right is he present at the Conference of Judges and refuses to leave when he is asked to do so? The Government and each government are not entitled, Prime Minister, to distinguish judges to friends who are either willing or uncooperative. Take good care of it, because you too adopted it today, in your speech earlier. The Government shall not proclaim nor justify any judicial decision. A lot more doesn't make them. And be careful, Prime Minister, because you tried today to pre-indicate findings. The Government and each government do not channel underground selective leaks from confidential procedural data. The objectives of the government are obvious: You are attempting to build a regime. The attack on justice is part of this plan. You have decapitated the independent authorities, attempted to impose on you willingly. At the same time, we see the President of the Ice Bay, from her institutional position at the top of Greek justice, intervene unequivocally in the functioning of Parliament, attempting to block the freedom of speech and the independence of Members, intervening in the legitimate democratic functioning of the political parties. We have not hesitated to expose and denounce this extra-institutional intervention, and after all we ask ourselves: is there a distinction between powers in this country? As I pointed out with emphasis in my reply to Mrs Thanos, I find her request unacceptable to address the content of a communication from the PASOK press office, as well as the parliamentary initiatives by the Members of our party. I would also like to reiterate my full disagreement with the lodging of a complaint against Professor Tsakakis. I consider the new legislative provision to be unacceptable, by which the President of the Ice Bay can exercise disciplinary control over all the judges. Why this coincidence of so many qualities in a person? And an disciplinary persecutor and an interrogator and an indirect critic. This is how the 'walk' and the regulated internal independence of the judiciary goes. Just the fact that Mrs Thanos used her superpowers before she even drys the printing ink, indicates the feasibility of the arrangements, that is to say, the confiscation ordered. The people demand to break the abscess of corruption and interlocutory. We call for transparent rules, tough rules and for all kinds of windows to be closed in the strand between economic operators and politicians. We call for the responsibility and control of compliance with and the application of the rules to belong to justice and to the independent authorities and not to the administration and the government. We are asking for structural changes to be made to the political system in order to limit the excessive power of the executive. We're asking everything to be in the light. The country needs clean rules to be observed. There is no need for rules to be cut and sewed by the ministers in their measures to serve all kinds of interests. The country needs strong institutions and not ministers who haggle television licenses or ministers who break into the prosecutor's offices. Today you must apologise to the Greek people, because you have voted against all measures to combat corruption and tax evasion. I am referring to all those that, as a rule, voted by PASOK alone from 2010 to 2011. You didn't find the courage to vote with us, not even to remove bank confidentiality, nor even the prosecutor of financial crime. These regulations are currently being investigated. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So find the courage today at last to recognize it! I am presenting in the Minutes, for example, nineteen initiatives and actions of the PASOK Governments, the most important ones. [[At this point the President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Fotini Gennamata presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] ASEAN and a system of recruitment in the public sector. Free access for all citizens to public documents concerning them. Statements ‘outside’ for political persons, state officials and civil servants. Control on parties' finances. Constitutional recognition of independent authorities. Interreg programme. Strengthen and strengthen e-government. Property tax offshore companies. Removal of bank and tax secrets. Prosecutors and prosecutors against corruption. Independent public authority to combat money laundering. Establishment of an independent statistical authority. We do not, however, stop at what has happened. A lot of things can and still have to be done. We have proposed and insisted on the setting up of permanent general secretaries with a five-year term of office and their selection by an independent electorate. Repeal of the status and culture of the development of public officials in antiquity. Exploiting staff capacity in executive positions. Upgrade the National Centre for Public Administration. Create an independent authority to control political money. Enlargement of the role and responsibilities of Citizen Service Centres and public services 'one attitude'. That's how corruption is limited. Ensure the collection of public administration. Organize an active and timely public service audit. Introduction of an incompatibility of a state office and party position. Establish a maximum period of terms for each hereditary post. We also propose, especially for the area of justice, to overturn the image of unbearable delays in the administration of justice, the transfer of large categories of cases to modern forms of out-of-court resolution, the organisation of modern forms of social protection, such as the family judge and correspondent, the full and timely compliance of the public administration with the decisions of the Council of State. The Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, has asked for this debate, on the occasion of, on behalf of, developments in the field of justice. He's still talking like he's the leader of a opposition party. He only deals with the past. What is the reasoning of the SYRIZA leading group - ANEL? “ All right, children, we may not have succeeded in tearing the memorials, but we were proud to negotiate six months and seventeen hours, not with the troika but with the institutions. The institutions imposed on us and finally voted on the third and worst Memorandum. We do not, of course, agree, but we want the money from international loan sharks and lenders, because there are no other solutions. We get it, even now. We were forced to collect the EURIA from the citizens, but don't forget that we did our duty. As opposition, we didn't pay him. We withdrew the "Thessaloniki" programme, totalling three billion euros, but don't worry about it. We voted as a counterweight to the 'parallel programme', a total of EUR 100 million. We closed the banks and proceeded to the referendum. But don't worry. "No" we did "yes" in one night and we became the best friends of Mrs Merkel and of "Olandreos", as we said until yesterday, and their right hand. We closed up the inhumane Amygdaleza, but we opened it as they must be, 'nadron', to respect for the human rights that it honors Greece, by giving the refugees the right to melt and now to soak in mudwater, unless they have two hundred and fifty thousand euros to invest, so we want them to. We denounced the states that closed the border, but we were informed by Mr Tusk that we eventually signed in Brussels what we denounced in Athens. We broke into our garments for FRONTEX, but we brought NATO to the Aegean Sea and, in the margin of proclamation of our national proud Prime Minister as an honorary doctor from a private university in Izmir, we signed the arrival of Turkish landlords on our islands. We are systematically exterminating farmers, but don't worry. We impoverish scientists, free professionals and middle class, and in this way we reduce inequality. Our motto? ‘All downwards’. And all this is happening while the country is sinking. Her economy just doesn't exist. Society's going down. 'All right' - the rulers tell you - 'we did all this, but everything and everything, we will fight it to the end!' You know, the country has recently lived through similar phonicisms, supposedly, against the interlocutory with known results, only then they started and ended in the Bajraktars tavernas and now they've moved to Mavili Square with espresso. Well, what you did with the sketching of the memorials will also do by tearing the interlocutory! You'll tear the cat, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The most creepy, however, is what we heard from you tonight, that you will impose the doctrine of "law and order". What does this have to do with the Left, Prime Minister, and her ideological perceptions? I'll tell you what's going on with the retsindo! Well, we, Prime Minister, are in the rule of law! We defend it against authoritarianism, not in words, in practice! And that is why once again we repeat that it is obvious that you cannot safely drive the country out of the crisis. You need to understand it and resign before it's too late. However, the interest of the country lies in the national consultation, and this House must - it must - give the solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Birthday. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions: (a) Directives 2014/107/EU and (EU) 2015/2060, (b) Directives 2014/86/EU and 2015/121/EU, (c) Directive 2013/61/EU and other provisions’. The speech is given by the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, on other issues the debate should take place today. We had to discuss the dangerous decisions of the European Union, NATO, the caging of refugees and migrants in Greece, in violation of the International Refugee Law, the violation of the sovereign rights of our people, our country by supposedly allies and go by saying. Of course, we had to talk about how they should stop preparing new measures at the expense of our people, such as insurance, tax, new laws - looting. But we've learned you now. Every time the parties to the memorial parties - to remember a favorite and much-used expression of today's SYRIZA-ANEL conflict, before their official inclusion with the third memorial tombs of the memorial parties - felt popular pressure, discontent, indignation, whenever these same parties increasingly converged in positions and management proposals, then they were pulled from the drawers known, their favorite recipe: Scandalism, the fight against corruption, the fight against corruption, the supreme justice and its supposed defence. The oldest in this House have lived through this sirial in a number of decades now, especially since 1991. The younger on these benches, like all Greek society, we lived it from the television windows, from the "yellow" front pages, meaningless cockfighting in election balconies. The entire 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century are filled with such "fights". So it is not a great deal of originality today's debate. There was no election programme for the New Democracy, PASOK, which did not include statements on the allegedly anti-corruption, the need to consolidate the State's sovereignty, the economy in general. On the other hand, there was no scandal that didn't come to the light of publicity - and here in Greece and elsewhere - by the competitive international monopolies. The major political - economic scandals have always been associated with reclassifications in the capital market, the emergence, that is, of new 'jackets', in order to come to an agreement. Convergence on fundamental issues has always pushed you to try to haunt your so-called superiority over the rest of your political opponents on the basis of your so-called morality, integrity, ability of your executives, highlighting the lack of these traits to others, just to confuse the world. So, in the same way, SYRIZA, the ANELs, the coup d'état, what New Democracy and PASOK did and their willingly "exploiting" before. This was also pre-electioned. The election slogan of SYRIZA "we come back with the old one, we win tomorrow" effectively set the corruption of previous governments, both individually and collectively. New Democracy once again had raised the glove by election, showing the inclusion in the SYRIZA of broad sections of the political establishment, mainly PASOK officials, but also known workers, while twenty one of its Members - remember very well - had moved to a question at the end of July to the Prime Minister and the Co-Presidents on the subject of "Discorruption and the spirit of the first time left governance". It goes without saying that this controversy also included the emergence of either side of the strains, which were presented as evidence of corruption in a public debate, but on the substance “other words to be loved”. Of course, to be clear, we do not believe that any controversy on the issue of corruption only serves propaganda purposes. The Greek people must know that, in the name of the fight against corruption, the interlocutory, they are attempting restructuring in the state sector, which will facilitate the activity of major entrepreneurs alone. The fact, for example, of the equal access of business groups to tenders or of the simplification of procedures for investments, in combination with the need for the known ‘promotion’ in a number of state services, is a relevant factor for capitalists. Of course, in the major issues of the inter national monopolies, Greece is neither an exception nor an exception. We all remember 'WATERGATE' old, 'SIEMENS', the scandals in Italy, Japan and elsewhere. Greece, like other states, has a greater extent of corruption with regard to the phenomena associated with tax evasion with the backs of the state mechanism, for example the DUIs. There are states such as the United States of America, Italy, where the mafia is a state in a state. But what do the defenders of this rotten system mean by 'corruption', whether they belong to the two parties in today's coup d'état or to the other parties, but also to institutes or various personalities, which we hear from here and there both in Greece and throughout the world? Do they mean 'corruption', for example, by maintaining by all the governments of the law which defines the sixty special tax exemptions enjoyed by shipowners and is responsible for the fact that the state has less revenue than shipowners than it has from the paradoxes of immigrants? Does the term 'corruption' mean a reduction in the tax rates of major business groups at the same time as the escalation in the taxation of popular strata? Do they mean government support for the banks when government spending on education, health, insurance is being cut? Perhaps, at the moment all of this is being done, it is being seen as corruption, the adoption of laws that reduce wages and pensions, increase people's taxation and adapt labour relations to the needs of increasing capitalist profits? Of course, this is in no way considered by you to be a phenomena of corruption. The opposite is true. Legislative activity for the benefit of capital is considered - and is, in fact - an essential element of every capitalist state. And because SYRIZA's gentlemen have eaten, as they say, "with the spoon," Marx and Engels, they will remember when they were addressing the police with the communist manifesto and they were called "Your fairness is the will of your order forbidden to law". That is why the workers of our country, in order to understand exactly what "corruption" means, behind the words, the parties and the mechanisms of the system, must put alongside the laws that are passed in the House and those concerning the shipowners, the industrialists, the big businessmen, at the same time those concerning workers, farmers, professionals, and those who characterize them as scandals. It is well-known that it can in one country, based on its laws, be regarded as corruption, and in another country it can be regarded as proof of healthy or intelligent entrepreneurship. A characteristic is the example of funding urban parties from large business groups. In the United States of America this phenomenon is very general and in all legal and moral ways. The same phenomenon in Europe forms part of corruption phenomena and causes stormy reactions and similar moral sermons. We recall, for example, the scandal of the 1990s in Germany, where then the longest-lived Chancellor Helmut Cole along with the current Minister of Finance, Mr. Shoeble, accepted, on behalf of the Christian Democrat Party, two million marks from the great arms trader Schieder. The capital as a whole, the unified one is against the strike of the working class, the more it is eaten by the sharp internal flows, which are heard in the name of capitalist competition. In this competition, not only are the profits in general, but the greater profitability of the competitor, the commitment of a project by a company instead of another, the guarantee of participation in a subsidy or programme instead of another, the gain of a greater share in the market for a company’s goods compared with its competitors etc. And this sharp war between capitalists requires the exploitation of all weapons, both legal and illegal. In this war, independent justice is also involved. In your angelic blasphemy world, this relevant head start is often pursued by taking responsibility for the business, the capitalists themselves or the executives of their businesses, parts of state administration. It is known that the Bush Government is directly interconnected with ENRON and the relevant scandal at that time, in the United States of America, as well as the relations between Chaney and the Vice-President, with the oil company HALLIBURTON, as well as the then Minister of Finance, Paulson, with GOLDMAN SACHS. In Greece, moreover, we have many examples of such businessmen or their well-known barleymen, who are directly involved at all levels of the state mechanism, from ministries to local government. They mention the complexities of political and administrative capitalist enterprises as corruption. It's hypocrisy. Politicians appear to be such, after having nursed to high management positions in capital, at the same time to higher education institutions, research centres and vice versa. So-called corruption is the necessary complement to the legitimate pursuit of the greatest possible profit. The breach of civil law in the interest of profitability appears to be merely the other side of the currency of the production of law for the benefit of capitalist profitability. This conclusion is evidenced by the fact that these phenomena embrace the entire capitalist world. A few months ago, the 'VOLKSWAGEN' scandal with the German colossal of the automobile industry and a pilot company from the German and global industry was indicted. In Germany, it is also the ‘SIEMENS’ that accepted that between 1999 and 2006 it spent 1,3 trillion euros in various countries -130 million euros in Greece - for bribes aimed at reaching trade agreements. A few months ago the Italian Minister of Transport resigned because of the revelations and charges of corruption in the awarding of public works contracts to specific companies. In 1999, we had the resignation of the entire European Commission, when ten of its nineteen members were accused of scandals and irregularities linked to the interests of certain groups, and it is characteristic that since their resignation they have taken a leading position in these big companies. The list really doesn't end. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the Prime Minister today repeat that the exit from the crisis, the reconstruction and democratic transformation of the country is impossible to achieve if the system of interoperable and corruption is not resolutely rooted. This is the way one finds urban parties from Greece to Japan and the United States at all. Their arguments try to cut off the umbilical cord that connects these phenomena to the hunting of profit, presenting them as ethical issues, the fight of which depends on the relative political will. That is why everyone emphasises the need to strengthen and improve the functioning of the state control mechanisms and justice, leaving intact or even more correct - by contributing to the development of the climate in which these phenomena thrive. The fact that the State cannot be a general and long-term trick of any individual capitalist businessman in any case must not hide the existence of a closer link between parts of the state mechanism and specific groups of such cases to ever more often come to the surface and lately and before. This character also has many revelations about the activity of a series of state officials or business groups that come out of the affected interests. In other words, one takes each other’s dirt out in the forum as a means of promoting his own interests. At the same time, the attacks on corruption and the invoicing of transparency are also being used as a Trojan horse to promote a series of pursuits by the urban state. For example, the whole debate on tax evasion focuses on the same companies and is being used as a means of speeding up the concentration of production in a number of sectors, but also increasing public revenues. The allegedly denounced customer relations and so forth, is mainly made by parties that have not conducted governmental management, even though they move along the same wavelength and swear on the same great interests. SYRIZA did it before as a opposition. The most characteristic examples of such parties today are Potami and the Association of Centres and the Golden Dawn, which focus on issues of corruption, merit, philosophicalism, partisanism - depending on how each one says them - at the same time that they take oath of faith in this system and its authority. It is well known, for example, that the Golden Dawn constantly tables questions supporting the great capital, the shipowners at the expense of the workers. The emergence of corruption phenomena is thus exploited to show as the main responsibility of all the people's sufferings one, at most, by making oil the whole rotten system. The return of the capitalist crisis to corruption is characteristic here, in the fact that some ate them. In his government program SYRIZA notes that it is the situation of interacting and corruption that led Greece to the edge of the cliff. We say that this argument serves not only to acquittal the profits of a few entrepreneurs as a source of popular suffering, but also to clear it up at the same time in the eyes of the people through separation into healthy, unhealthy entrepreneurship, in which every debate on corruption ends, as we have already heard and will be hearing this evening. Ladies and gentlemen, the requirement for immediate and lasting conclusion of all the scandals that come to the surface must not lead to disorientation of our people in order to cover the real causes of the popular problems. From today's debate, at least until now, it is confirmed that the various scandals are the other side of the coin of anti-population policy, which burdens our people with new burdens. The JRC, on the occasion of various debates, but also during the debate on various individual draft laws that come, related to the issue we are discussing, such as drafts on where we were going, on economic and other issues, has presented many and specific proposals, which are rejected by all the other parties. In discussions on the control of corruption and dealing with the conflict, even since the 1990s, we have proposed a mandatory conversion of, for example, all shares from anonymous to denominations, and all public and bank financial products, such as bonds, so that there can be control over what each owns. We have proposed abolishing all secrets and bank and tax and trade and business. We would remind you that banking and tax have only been lifted in terms of the prosecution authorities. We have proposed a ban on the operation of offshore companies, control over the export of funds. In our proposals, the New Democracy and the PASOK have always said that it is not appropriate for the rules of the European Union and the free market - and that is the case - and they have been rejected. The coalition before, then SYRIZA, when it was opposition, to emerge from the difficult position, said that it generally agrees and accepts these proposals. As a government, of course, he did back on this matter. For broadcasters, we asked for the names of the shares to be registered as a natural person. The same thing the coalition used to say back then. The last law on television stations, however, is behind even previous proclamations, even in words. It also shows the real intentions of today's coexistence in this matter. After all, SYRIZA's plan on television licences, with the law passed, does not serve to tackle the conflict. A redistribution of pie serves between old and new fireplaces, possibly redistributing some more government-friendly - and that is where the various lusheries and the various games are due. On the “SIEMENS” case, Mr. Tsipras said that he would reopen the file today, even today, he spoke about this extrajudicial compromise, etc. Why, really, don't you remove him? And do not "support through negotiation", that you will supposedly renegotiate, because your government, in particular, even this concept of negotiation has degenerated it. No one believes you anymore. If you really want to remove him here and now. Who's blocking you? The same is true, of course, with the Lagard list or other similar lists. Although the government shows some cases, either known or other names - two three, I do not know how many people have paid - it is not at all clear how far this control has gone in depth. The government has announced a draft law on a one-off, foreign deposit taxation, with the pretext of collecting revenues and the possibilities for repatriating and exploiting these funds for development purposes. Although the Government thus states that it is not essentially illegal acts such as the laundering of dirty money, it will in practice only act as ambiguousness. As far as the unfamiliar independence of justice is concerned, we say, the role and the position of justice within this power, this economy. We have done so, and unfortunately we are also confirmed by developments. At the same time, it remains intact all the authoritarian framework for the functioning and hierarchical dependence of judges. The conflict, based on what they have seen at least the light of publicity, apart from other aspects, has to do with controlling critical positions and mechanisms in the field of justice. It is worth recalling that, in the context of the then Revision of the Constitution, we have put forward the position of electing the leadership of justice by a broader electorate as a minimal step to relax somewhat the suffocating hug with the respective government that appoints its leadership and, of course, it controls all the critical rings. Talking more generally about justice in our country, we think that in recent years the classic, as we say, has become more unambiguous, that is, its role of exploiting anti-population policy, the service of the interests of large groups at the expense of workers, the popular strata. Such figures are as follows: The continuation of criminalisation of workers' and people's struggles. On the one hand, we must point out that the rejection by the government, without even debate, of our recent amendment - a proposal by our party to stop the criminal prosecution of a series of racing workers, poor, self-employed farmers, the declaration of, almost, all strikes so far as 'illegal and abusive' are concerned. It is also a characteristic example of the new reactionary Code of Civil Procedure adopted by the Government with New Democracy, PASOK and other parties last summer as a prerequisite for the third memorandum. Despite the contrast between the legal world of the country, provocative facilities and privileges are given to banks to make popular property easier the hammer. [[The President-in-Office occupies the first Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis.]] More generally, over the past five years, some important changes have been made in the administration of justice, but in a reactionary direction, concerning procedures in all courts, making use of the existing problem of serious delays in the trial of cases as a pretext. These reforms aim to adapt justice more effectively to the needs of large capital for rapid, cheap and effective purposes but to resolve disputes and facilitate its investments. The main guidelines are: to strengthen out-of-court forms of dispute resolution, for example, mediation, arbitration and other forms of privatisation - to say so - of justice. Fast track procedures for dealing with cases of significant economic interest for groups, for example, strategic investments, tax affairs and others. Ensure the rapid implementation of anti-grass laws, for example, pilot trials on cases with more general political and social interest, such as appeals against anti-popular characters, insurance laws that make workers, the movement and others. At the same time, as the other side of the same currency, access to justice for workers, people's layers, for the poor world, in order to defend whatever rights have been left, it becomes extremely expensive and extremely difficult, as paradoxical, other costs are constantly increasing, while new formal procedural obstacles are being introduced. At the same time, the serious lack of staff and logistical infrastructure, such as legal rooms and so on, continues. The huge gaps in the positions of judges and, in particular, judges, are continuing, while the working conditions of all workers in justice, lawyers, judges, judges and prosecutors are deteriorating in total. If the government really wanted to deal with the problem of delaying the administration of justice, it would resolve these issues, but would also unload the judges' pins from thousands, hundreds - anyway - cases of criminalisation of workers and people's struggles, persecution against poor people's layers. Ladies and gentlemen, it follows from all the above that any political force does not question the sovereignty of capital in the economy, any political force accepts as eternal this capitalist way of production, the organization of the economy, the organisation of society, objectively supports the framework in which these phenomena become an inevitably important part - the want does not want it, it does not seek it - of this interlocutory. This, in our view, is the basic conclusion that should be drawn, for the Greek people, from today's sitting in the House. The people are watching us with interest, with the biggest scandals, the biggest ones, that is, ultimately injustices that come in the form of avalanche again, as a follow-up to the previous ones, and the socio-security system and the tax and red loans, all of which is the measures that put gravel-plate on rights, on the already extinct people's income, in their own lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u101	We thank the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsouba. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, the manipulation of justice was and is the favourite sport of all governments. The question is whether you can find one or two prime ministers who have not tried or have not been able to set up their own party in justice. And apparently the SYRIZA - ANEL government is a great priority. You chose Mrs Thanou for the Ice Bay Presidency, after giving her exams to Koumoundourou. He was a judge, but he considered the debt illegal, deceased and shameful. He was a judge, but he wrote to Juncker, saying the people support his government and resists austerity. Of course, Mrs Thanos has been rewarded. He became President of the Ice Bay. Mrs. Thanos has been accustomed to saying in her interviews that the judge only speaks of his conscience and God. Obviously, in this particular case the 'god' is Mr Tsipras's nickname. But let's go to the scandal rock for today's debate. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have you gone to the right-hand transcription of Mr. Papagelopoulos? Many of your comrades wonder. Mr. Papagelopoulos was appointed Commander of the EEA in the summer of 2009. One day he resigned from a judge and the other was placed in the NSA. Mr. Mitsotakis did not mention his name once and we have every reason to believe that he was a obedient employee of the New Democracy and justice, and that is why he was chosen the next day for the trusted government position of the commander of the NDP. He was then discovered by Mr. Tsipras or - to be fairer - it is very likely that the phenomenal idea could have been Mr. Kammenos, who proposed, as far as I remember well, for President of the National Broadcasting Council. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u104	But who was Judge Papagelopoulos? He wants the Greek people to know and we think we can say it. He was involved in a series of important political cases, which instead of clearing up, he closed them in the file. Can I remind you of some of them? He was involved - look out, because Mr Tsipras said it first today - with complaints about suspicious party financing of the old parties. No conclusion. The case in the file. He had dealt with the arbitrary villas of judges, prefectures, politicians, citymen, former mayor in woodland in Porto Germenos. No conclusion. Thousands of headlines. In the file, the case. Of course, he was involved in the thievery scandal. Do You Remember? Do you remember the suicide, Chalikidis? Do you remember Mr. Papaggiopoulou's findings? He personally conducted the preliminary investigation for reasons of national security. And after months, no conclusions. In the Greek bells the case. This is Mr. Papagelopoulos. I'm saying this to SYRIZA's comrades, mostly, who think they've translated from the Right a Di Pietro. The other is Papagelopoulos and Antonio di Pietro. [[Applause]] Efforts, of course. [[Noise in the Chamber]] If you don't know De Pietro, I'm afraid it's too late to find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u105	That's funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u106	If you don't know him, ask your comrades in Italy, but now they don't talk to you much. The efforts, of course, to control independent judicial power are not present. The entire judiciary has always been annoying about the bankrupt political system. And in the last promotions, in the summer, great judges were omitted. Such dives in the yearbook have been decades, the judges say. Mr. Kosmidis, an Areopagite with huge work in training young judges, has not been promoted. The Areopagite, Mr. Kranik, the person responsible for the revision of the Code of Civil Procedure, has not been promoted. To the surprise of the entire judiciary, they were not found capable of becoming vice presidents of the Ice Bay. Why? Because Mrs Thanou obviously wanted people more pleasant and comfortable in the positions of the Vice-Presidents. As the New Democracy had previously not judged it worth making the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay Vassilis Marki. The oldest public prosecutor at that time was not promoted! The prosecutor of the poor, the prosecutor of the great trials, has been omitted. [[Applause from the river wing]] So is there a matter of justice in the country? Of course there is. Ladies and gentlemen, the major, apart from what we are discussing today, is the delay in giving justice. On March 18, ten days ago, the killer of Paul Physsa came out. It was a shameful day for justice. I'm not talking about someone involved in a murder that needs to be cleared up about the size of his involvement. I'm talking about the man who ratted the knife into the heart of the Bridge. And this man today is free. This is the clear proof of the enormous problems of the justice system in our country. But these, of course, are not dealt with by words and by communal tricks. They want work, they want organization and they want bold decisions, which the bold decision cannot be taken by the current government, but which we have to take at some point, because only justice makes people equal. "Policy" said the Prime Minister, "court and great delay". Of course, it is. But you are now fifteen months government. Do you have to tell us any measure of pluralism, malpractice and the long delay? [[Applause from the river wing]] Of course Mrs Thanos has other priorities. She uses the special weight of her position to conflict with parties and citizens expressing different views from hers. A supreme judiciary who attempts to censor everyone in the name of justice. Mrs Thanou has reached the point to sue Professor of Constitutional Law Stavros Tsakirakis - I told you again - for excitement, he says defamation. This is an unprecedented action which clearly shows that it seeks to reduce every critical voice. We hope - we are sure - that it will prove in practice that there are still full-fledged judicial officers who will not bend their heads and will not accept to serve political and other purposes. The government comes and gives Mrs Thanou disciplinary powers with an amendment to an unrelated bill. Why? In order to ensure the obedience of the judicial officers. In other words, they will not only speak to their consciences and to the god, they will also speak to Mrs Thanos. Because - you know - the amendment provides that the prosecutor and judge of the judges will be one. Mrs Thananos 'two in one'. Justice with this incomprehensible legislative choice was seriously injured and many constitutionalists - most of them - are talking about violation of the Constitution, a violation that refers to totalitarian regimes. And should I tell you something, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Don't talk like you're etern. The decisions will turn boomerang. At some point you won't be government, and then you will be at the mercy of the arbitrary you are creating today. [[Applause from the river wing]] But let's go to Mr. Tsipras' favorite theme: media and involvement. To speak with names, because you didn't talk. Following the appointment of the first, second and third-generation unaccompanied fighters, the appointment of a newspaper editor at Ms. Gerovasili's office revealing SYRIZA - ANEL's perception of complexity and corruption has come. Because your problem has been and is the complexity of others and has to be dealt with with with your own complication. With the complicity with those who declare willing to serve you. Who is, however, the newspaper "TONI" that its publisher is now a government official? Who is she?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u107	He's a candidate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u108	Do you remember the headlines? In April 2015, titled “The blurred Potami, the genuine German party”. As of August 2015, ‘The Champions’. "The troublesome" were the leaders of the counterpopulation. It's mud on the rivals, it's inspiring the ministers. Be careful now, however, what the financial problem is and give answers. By the end of March 2015 the newspaper "THONI" did not have a single page of advertising. And how's he got it? He didn't have circulation and he doesn't have circulation. And suddenly everything changes! Pages with PPC adverts, pages with adverts by PPC and banks: National Bank, Alpha Bank, Eurobank, the company "Greek Petroleum", all public bodies, all banks that are traded with the public give pages on pages to the newspaper "THOI". [[Applause from the wings of the river, the Democratic Alliance of PASOK - DIMAR and New Democracy]] Take care, ladies and gentlemen, and look for them. Even the State Secretary of Macedonia and Thrace downgrade, arrived in Athens, found "TTHONI" and made him an election. [[Applause from the wings of the river, the Democratic Alliance of PASOK - DIMAR and New Democracy]] Consider that there is no page of the State Secretary for Macedonia and Thrace in such a newspaper. And the ERT, of course, exchanges advertisements with "THONI". Support to the government and mud on the river is rewarded. Let's go to other newspapers. The same is true in the newspaper "Acropolis" by Mr. Mavrikos, who suddenly became an opponent. It continues to lick the River, New Democracy and SYRIZA. It's complicated. Title: "Potami the ruffles on the river". Other title in February: "Cumulations of posted officials and posted to the party of Theodorakis". And all this for us, a party that has the fewest posted officials in the House and the fewer seconded. [[Applause from the river wing]] So mud for the Potami by the prosecutors for extortion of publishers. We're not done, there's the sites. The site manager "Olympia" - do you know that? -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Burnedo knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u110	He was appointed to the Department of Defence Information Department to redeem his work. Since February 2015, it has been appointed,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u111	Oh, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u112	...to get as much money as possible for the mud that flies and continues to fly to the river. Title in March: "Germanolias Theodorakis". Then because he realized that there are many german germans in the country, it was changed "Theodorakis Paros" - titled April 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u113	Insane?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u114	Insane! These are the titles of the site ‘Olympia’. In the days, then, - to generalize - where the paid trolls of SYRIZA and ANEL flew tons of mud for Potami, that it is an instrument of canalarchs, that it is an instrument of Bombal, that it is an instrument of Psilas, at the same time Mr. Tsipras at secret night meetings at homes in Canja and Kolonaki, was trying with bazaars - and in some cases it seems that he managed it - to impose managers of his choice on Doll and Pigasus. That's the reality. What else did he do? It stays in history. Prime Minister - you are not in the Chamber, but I hope you can hear me - you have occasionally been the favourite of the popular media. The headlines in early 2008 gave you 17% with 18%, not a front page, many front pages. It was when you interviewed three newspaper directors at the same time. I am talking about the newspapers of the establishment, as you used to say. In December 2008, of course, Athens was burnt and the red carpets were burned to you. In the elections you only received 4.6% of the 17% prediction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u115	How much did you get?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u116	You, however, came back on the commemorative chariot and as a left-wing populist, you worked with the media populists, who are not few, and you became what you became, that is, the Prime Minister of populism. But we go to the other favourite chapter of the Prime Minister, the black money. Indeed, many questions arise from the persecution of the government of Mr Nicoludi, who had remained Minister and the government of service. In February 2015 - do you remember them, ladies and gentlemen? - Mr Tsipras presented as the first strategic choice the presence in the government of Mr. Nicoludi, because he was the president of the Black Money Authority and was well aware of the illegal paths of corruption and the country's conflict. And in our first place in Parliament in February we committed ourselves, I personally committed myself to supporting Mr Nicoludis. I visited him, I told him he would have all the support he wants in any law he brings but suddenly Mr. Nicoludis was caratated and Mr. Tsipras never felt the need to give us an answer. Didn't he do anything in the months that he was Minister or did a lot? Did he bother the people he was supposed to or didn't he bother anyone? Let the Prime Minister answer today. Indeed - Mr Mitsotakis also pointed out - Mr Nikoloudis said that there are three and a half thousand cases with 7.5 billion cases of tax evasion, of which 2 to 2.5 billion can be collected. Where is he? Has the Minister changed and the targets lost?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u117	Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u118	Where are billions of smuggling, oil smuggling, tobacco smuggling? Do you remember what you said to the world? In February, you committed yourself to a billion revenue from the fight against smuggling and another 800 million from the smuggling of tobacco products. Another record: The terrible and terrible Mr. Mardas had been sworn by the Step of the House to bring more than 2 billion revenues within a few months of the fight against smuggling and the smuggling. Now Mr. Mardas is looking for the refugee pockets if he can find any change. They laugh at social media, they laugh abroad, but they're still your minister. But give me an answer, Mr Tsipras. Did you break the abat of the oligarchy? Did public funds win anything? Because that is exactly what you described, Mr Tsipras, the smuggling of fuel, 'the abatto of the oligarchy'. So why didn't you enter the abattom of oligarchy? What were you afraid of? Or do you expect to give any other performances, some other time? And since we are talking about fewer people, I would like to say this: what, ladies and gentlemen, has the 100-dollar regulation? What did he do? In Article 34 you stated that those who owed the public, whatever they owed, that is, millionaires, will save fines and increases. How many escaped and how many escaped by setting hundreds of doses?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u119	That's what gave you breath!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u120	Who were the big ones, who gave them the money, while the state's chasing civilians for one and two grand? Or I should like to ask you differently, after he entered the Chamber and Mr Spirtzis: To which friends of contractors have you cleared the seals so that millions of people can get works by signing the government's ministers. I'm waiting for the answer to come back. [[Applause from the river wing]] But be honest. Corruption and complication will be found in all camps. Everywhere you'll find corrupted. There's no immunity to corruption. Everything is proved in practice. But here there is a great difference: there are conditions of incubation of the corrupt ones. And what are these conditions? It's partition, it's stateism, it's factorism, it's opacity, rousfetti, inability and populism. Listen to the words and think a little bit about your state. Partitionism, stateism, factorism, opacity, rousfetti, incompetence and populism, words that characterize a large part of your policy, unfortunately. You didn't do anything with the Lagard list. For this reason every week, bring in a new foreign interview for a new list in case we forget. It is true - and the evidence shows it - that you received in 2015 less than 2014. You didn't do anything with the electronic interconnection of cash machines, with the scanners at the border. On the contrary, you are giving the works - look out, you have seen the story a few weeks ago - without being registered in the electronic system of public procurement. Because - be careful with the excuse - the civil servants want two years to learn. Two years? And we offered our scientific collaborators in the House, who have received them with a contest, to conduct a rapid education course, to see that in three months' time we can have the electronic registration of public contracts. Gentlemen of the Government, the engagement is traded with power. And power today is you. You're the ones who see publishers in secret. You're asking for support from the media. You demand that journalists be fired. You give the blackmailers the money of the ECHO and you get them to the ERT to slander your opponents. And you, of course, as I said before, are hiring newspaper and site publishers. Mrs Thanos and Mr Papagelopoulos have joined together two systems that have been connected for years and are aimed at manipulating the officials of justice. They are systems born by the conservatives of the country and are now enthusiastically adopted by the conservatives of the present government. This unholy alliance shows the selective relationships between the old and the old. Fortunately, however, there are judicial officers, from the least to the greatest extent, who honor their positions, the positions entrusted to them by the State, and despite the misconduct in the leadership of the supreme courts, there are also people who stand up to the circumstances. We say let them do their job and make a proposal, because Potami is here to give solutions and not only to make comments to the old people. We therefore propose to both the government and the other parties to select the leadership of the highest courts, such as the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, between three persons, who will indicate the totality of each court and the government accountable to the people, not only to dive and sieve in the yearbook to find its own or the people who seem to be more obedient. We must move on, ladies and gentlemen, to coordinate the audit bodies if we want to fight corruption. We need to look at the strengthening of the structures of the audit bodies and their electronic interconnection. Today it is not essentially controlled - and we are mocking the world - nor the point of politicians. Checked too late, too late. We need an institutional framework for political money and electoral spending. Of course, we also need to strengthen the independent authorities. Mr Tsipras proposed a committee of inquiry on parties' loans and SME loans. Of course! We had requested control from the first sessions of this House in 2015. And let me tell you something. We have committed ourselves, and we have done so. We won't borrow from the banks. We are conducting election campaigns with tens and not with millions and you, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, have loans and have pre-election expenses. You have the election expenses of millions. So we're asking...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u121	Say a number. How much did you spend?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u122	Don't cause. We spent two hundred grand, and we've been publicized where we found them and where we spent them. Give you publicity for the millions that you spent in this election campaign in September, for the millions you spent in the January election campaign. Who gave it to you, how much did you give it to you, and why did you waste it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u123	Just quiet down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u124	We're not lobsters. To detached the country, it takes 1,000 euros. You posted her twice in September. Where did you get the millions when we printed in the printeries 14,000 euro posters in total? So let's go because your colleague, gentlemen of the government, asks...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u125	Just quiet down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u126	Your theory is simple: everything you do is well done, because the previous ones were worse and mostly corrupt. The world is suffering and hurting. "Yes, but the previous ones were corrupt." There's a mess in migration. "Yes, but the previous ones were corrupt." The evaluation is delaying. "Yes, but the previous ones were corrupt." The pensions will be cut. "Yes, but the previous ones were corrupt." [[Applause from the river wing]] You even appoint those who consider the career cholera. "Yes, but the previous ones were corrupt." How long will you invoke this alibi, gentlemen of the government? How long are you going to play hideout with the country's problems? [[Actual disputes between SYRIZA and the River MPs]] Look out, gentlemen. Do I have a proposal? Since you have failed to do away with a law and an article in the memorandum, bring an article and abolish the thirteenth interventions that New Democracy and PASOK has made in justice. [[Applause from the river wing]] Bring a law, an article to vote tomorrow, to prove that we're not with the old, old one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u127	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u128	What you're saying, Mr. Theonas, is not true. The law is repealed by law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u129	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Theonas, please. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Georgiades, Mr. Davakis, please don't say names. A little quiet. Go on, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you constantly create the illusion that you are taking initiatives without actually doing anything about tax evasion or the fight against corruption and interlocutory. You follow the usual practice of old policies. That's what Mr. Koutsubas said, and he's right. You disorientate public opinion to bring painful measures last August in the people's bathrooms and this year the Easter on holiday. The economy needs investment and tax reduction, and you drive investors away and you put many new taxes. Justice wants reinforcement and independence, and you pass provisions for its control. And society - to finish - calls for justice, but you are building a new party state everywhere in justice, education, public administration. We, Potami, the country's newest political power, we who have no skeletons in the wardrobe, we who have no bills to pay off will resist this policy. We will fight for the many for justice, justice, justice, education and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. The President of the Group of Independent Greeks and Minister for National Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had my honour today to be mentioned by the Chief of Staff Responsibility, but also by the Chief of the New Democracy during his speech. He forgets something, of course: we have known each other for twenty-three years. Twenty-three years ago, Mr. Mitsotakis, while you were in Boston, in October 1993, the irreversible Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis and your father spoke at the Peace and Friendship Stage. He said, therefore, that he was overturned after a conspiracy of the interests he wanted to overthrow that government for the decisions he made on PPC and OTE. And it was overthrown by a certain conspiracy and a traitor of the resignation then, Mr. Antonis Samaras. Thousands of people, Mr. Mitsotakis, at the Peace and Friendship Stage had a slogan: "Alitis, a traitor, Samara". And then Constantine Mitsotakis cried in the election speech. You traitor of your party and family worshiped to become Chief of the New Democracy. So don't talk about chairing me. [[Applause from the Wing of Independent Greeks]] And Constantine Mitsotakis did not even forget about this in his 2014 interview with the RIK, saying I don't forgive it. And you are present in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group as Head, with those members that Samaras brought to this Party, in order to alter it and turn it into a PASOK partner, to address those policies that the New Democracy has previously denounced to a body in fact of the interlocutory. That New Democracy, which made a very tough opposition at the time when the PASOK was a government and had announced all the scandals that were then done especially in relation to the country's armaments, in relation to the Post Bank, in relation to the conflict that took place over all these years of PASOK's governance. And of course it was the complication that put it in Greek justice, because it combined three powers: the executive on the one hand, parliamentary power on the other and judicial power on the other. And, essentially, it adopted an organised criminal gang, which is poured out of public money. However, the worst part of this is the dismantling of justice and democracy, because this institution testifies to the country's democracy and cohesion. This is the greatest crime, because Greek history has proved that before every national and social tragedy the collapse of institutions has taken precedence. And in this collapse of institutions, unfortunately, after the takeover of power by Antonis Samaras, the New Democracy by a militant fighter against the state of PASOK and interlocutory and corruption, became a partner. Let me remind you of this front page, because you said about "HAMA". Do you remember that front page? It's 1997. Do you remember, Mr. Davaki?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u133	We don't see, it's far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u134	Let me read you. "Structuring politics, sheep, people, fireplaces and the future. New alliances are taking place in the New Democracy.’ And it resembles Costas Karamanlis, who was elected the day before, with Dolly, the sheep that was cloned. It was the headlines of Mr. Psycharis, whose son then Mr. Samaras made a member of the New Democracy and gave forgiveness of sins. That is the truth, and that is the huge change that has taken place in the New Democracy. Well, I haven't changed. And can I tell you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u135	About the SYRIZA you're working with now and tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u136	I worked with SYRIZA, with whom we are of course in different political areas, but do you know why? For Alexis Tsipras did not get a house from Christopher, nor was he a partner from “SIEMENS”, nor did he lean on a Psychair to worship, nor was he a member of the submarine, nor was he a member of the submarine, nor was he a party, nor he went to kiss pee aprons of the intertwined interests. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] And of course, I will work with him to the end and support the government. And when I disagreed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u137	Be careful, Muzalas can hear you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u138	I'll tell you, Mrs. Vuldesis, about Muzala. So when I disagreed, why Mr. Muzalas made a verbal mistake... [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] I, Ms. Vultisis, submitted my resignation and the Ministers of the Independent Greeks to the Prime Minister. And can I tell you something? If you have the power, submit a motion of censure against Muzala. But, instead of submitting a motion of censure against Mousala, do you know what Mr Mitsotakis did?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u139	Four o'clock!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u140	Sit down, boy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u141	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u142	Mr Mitsotakis went to the European People's Party and told Mrs Merkel that Kammenis is a populist and wants to overthrow the government, and while you do not cause any problem with the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u143	Macedonia unheard of!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u144	If you wish, then, to say to the People's Party and to speak here, to be careful, because I remind you of a phrase that Kostas Karamanlis once said to Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u145	Let go of it! Don't put Karamanlis in your mouth!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u146	Sit, boy, down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u147	Could we be quiet a little?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u148	'Requests are sometimes accepted'. So if you want to follow the parliamentary procedure. So let's go a little bit further. I have something else to tell you, a gift. I saw a document you submitted for Mr. Mauriko. I know if Mauricus was in New Democracy. Every day there was, along with Nikos Karamanlis, along with Mr. Musa, along with all these executives. And what document did you deposit? That he gave advertising - says - the government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks to Mauritius.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u149	And what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u150	I have the contract. Decision No 187622-4-2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u151	He's shaking your hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u152	Hold it, have it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u153	Mrs. Vulture, can we have a little quiet?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u154	Who's signing? The President and Managing Director Peter May, who was appointed by you. And you appointed him in 2014 in place of Professor Antonis Macrykitritis. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] When you deposit documents, then, take care of them, why the "Koumouchakos" rocket, as Musa says, does not give you what must give you right. I'm filing it in the House. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go down. I heard PASOK speak of the independence of justice and attack the River against the President of the Ice Bay...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u155	Please, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u156	Are you questioning the missile? ...and against Dimitris Papagelopoulos. The river did the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u157	For Musala to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u158	I don't understand. What is the reason, Mr. Venizelo, for actually leading PASOK, to be disturbed by the fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u159	For Musala to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u160	Mrs. Sweep, I'm sorry. You're very vibrant today. Can you calm down for the process to continue? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u161	Mr Venizelos was annoyed by the fact that a recent law gives disciplinary authority to the Presidents of the Supreme Courts, between them and Mrs Thanos. What does PASOK have to fear? Does it have to be afraid of Marfin's shareholders? Are there PASOK personnel or related persons who are shareholders of MARFIN?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u162	Say the names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u163	Is Marfin, whose executives are adopted by a unanimous decision of the Court of Appeal, to be tried in Cyprus and against which, according to valid sources, an arrest warrant was already issued, confirmed by the Advocate General of Cyprus, are already covered? And who are they covered by? Are they not covered by Mrs Thanos, but by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, who does not order Europe, Eurojust, to testify to the public register three cases? The ‘SIEMENS’, the Vegeopulus and the submarines?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u164	Say the names.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u165	Well, that's what's happening. That's what you want to avoid. Do not forget that it is Mr Venizelos who brought the law on the responsibility of Ministers for the discharge of all political persons. If, then, you want to abolish it now, you commit all parties to abolish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u166	Stop, finally, the mud. Speak, finally, with names. You voted for it yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u167	Sit down, boy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, can you stop and calm down? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u169	Finally with that mud!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u170	Sit down. Ask Mr Venizelos if he is related to shares in MARFIN.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u171	That's no way!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u172	You voted for it yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u173	That's no way! Sit down, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u174	Finally, with this mud!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u175	Well, ladies and gentlemen, these own publishing interests, which I mentioned earlier, are constantly engaged in a professional blackmail. And because you are not convinced that you have appointed Mr Maurikos to a contract with Mr Maurikos, who was with the other officials of the New Democracy, to read to you five - six headlines of Mr Maurikos, who is fighting Mr Mitsotakis? "The Order found leader Mr.Mitsotakis, "The hundred and eleven days of Mitsotakis to power", "Mitsotakis sends to trial Varoufakis", "Mitsotakis scans in polls", "Mitsotakis to the tarts and tractors", "Three funds are proposed by Mitsotakis", "I will put borders in the country." These are the headlines of Mr Mavrikos, who, of course, went through many parties, Mr Theodorakis, and asked for backup, as we went through and kicked him out. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But, Mr Theodorakis, you spoke of the injustice in your party, I would remind you that, in the election campaigns, 17% were given. What happened? Did you lose it on the street? I'll remind you of the free television you had in the morning, noon and night. You're saying SYRIZA's decoy will cost 1 million. There are also parties, which also have members - you know that is another thing from you - members that cling to and no poster. You don't have to give a million to your posters. But what do you posters do with them? [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] As far as the skeletons in your locker are concerned, you have the greatest skeleton in your locker, which is the former Prime Minister, Mr Simitis, who is an example of your own Chief and applaud from PASOK and New Democracy. You are precisely 'nearly in power'. You have now stepped on it, because you have not been able to prevent the New Democracy and PASOK from running. You've sewed five times, thinking we're going to overthrow the government and wait for you to become a government. That's not gonna be a favor. What can we do? You missed the train.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u176	And you guys are fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u177	With regard to the publishing interests, which you say about slandering discredits, some abusive, says, "Acropolis". I'm not reading it. Mr. Maurikos only reads it and the people who paid it. What about the "News"? What about the "Bima"? The "BIMA", which was found by Kostas Karamanlis, the "BIMA", who was tossing Konstantinos Mitsotakis, Psycharis, who was the best man of Kostas Kakalis and wanted to overthrow. He's taking out the Himalayan cats now and you're taking them down now. You went to eat one, two, three with him. Mr. Psycharis is a publisher who received loans without collateral when banks donated no one. You'll tell me there were others. Of course they were. The other one sold, says, a building on Attica Road 130 million, took it from the National Bank - soon there was a radio station - and he managed to sell it to the National Bank, when none of the individuals could set a loan of 1000 or 2 thousand euros and took the home. That is what we are talking about in the committee of inquiry. It's all coming in here and making an account.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u178	You should put the Buffalo on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u179	Mrs. Vuldesis, what are you afraid of? In Voudala, Mrs. Vultisis, you have ridden yourself, along with the psalmist and the complication. And you have to get rid of it - you have to understand it - if you want New Democracy to have a future. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] To ask Mr Javarra, who fought the SIEMENS committee. Ask him about offshore and money travels. Ask him if we made the 2.2 billion, the compensation that the state had to get, and then you went and made an agreement to erase it, of 'SIEMENS'. So ask the MPs and New Democracy officials who come out and tell them about the submarines. I've got a present for you here. In 2001, with Spiliotopoulos, we do the research of the submarines. August 2001, Chohatzopoulos had just signed. The New Democracy Defence Sector, we denounce the submarine scandal at that time. You were in, too, Mr. Davaki. He was in charge of the Spiliotopoulos and I was in charge. What we were talking about about the submarines all came out. What was the result? The result was the New Democracy, which denounced the PASOK for the submarines, went to the end and gave forgiveness to Mr. Venizelos, because there was a conflict. You have changed the New Democracy and made it a lawyer for defending PASOK and the parastate that has built all these years. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At the point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, there is this post of Antonis Galanopoulou in "ELLEROTYPIA" with the transmission and photograph of Ms Vultesis, who had taken over the defense. Take it, so you have it here. [[At the point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But when all the accounts of Efstath and the rest of the submarines open up, then he will also laugh at the traditional goat and the Himalayan cat together. Summer of 1999: Submarine Scandal. We asked the questions, brought the papers to the House. Twenty articles by Doll in the column a gentleman who was translated today by Alfouzo. Twenty articles, slandering. Dedicated last, 150 thousand euros, 300 thousand in the courtroom. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the relevant document, which is in the archives of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I didn't get the money. It's a bad thing I didn't get that money because I didn't think a politician should take it or give it to journalists. I was hoping they'd learn. Instead, the attack continues to this day. The decisions that come out for slandering defamation, eighteen in a row, are of 10 thousand euros. If there's another suit against me, then she's being tried at 50 thousand euros. You see what's been going on lately. You attack Nikos Pappa, Christos Spirtzis, Dimitris Papagelopoulos and the Prime Minister themselves, but why are you attacking? Attack to hit those who hit the complexion and the interests. That's the truth. You should understand that this is not the role of the New Democracy. At the moment, what the Greek people are demanding is that we work together against this phenomenon which, in fact, is transformed into a tiger and eats the political system and humiliates institutions and justice. Do you know what the New Democracy trade unions did then, when I talked about the submarines, and this investigation took place? They've asked since, Chief, Kostas Karamanlis, for my deletion. A few months ago it was revealed that this trade unionist, who was bailing against me, was taking hates from the Germans, and today he's being persecuted for a felony. The same was the case with the Liakunakou case. They say 'what they did'. Eighteen cases went from the Department of Defense to Justice. Mr. Liakunakos is a convicted convicted person for those cases we were denounced at the time. Today all Greeks know about the accounts in Switzerland of the wife of Papantoniou, the Russians, the others. And yet the mistresses still maintain them in the unavoidable. Let us come to the most recent events showing the size of the problem we have to face: In 2010, after questioning the strange journey of his brother, Prime Minister George Papandreou, Abu Dhabi, with the presidential aircraft, suddenly appears a few days later. And then Mr. Safas with Minister Venizelo comes to the House, the groom, as an investor, who took the shipyard with 1 euro. These shipyards are something amazing. Whether they are sold with 1 euro or sold with debts, as did the previous PASOK government, ETVA to the shipyards. Then they gave 1 billion drachmas and took 4 billion dollars owed by ETVA to the shipyards, i.e. they took the dowry "principal" and put 3 billion in the pocket and robbed them. So Mr. Safah comes and tells us he has immunity from the law. What's the immunity? The decisions of the German court. Scandal contract. Hundreds of millions are being dismantled for the first time by the payments made by the Navy. In the submarine case, however, accounts are not being investigated with the European system. Why? Because from behind there are politicians and government officials. That's what we're talking about, and that's what we want to look for. That is what the Greek people are demanding to look for and I wish not all of them were the ones spoken. I would remind you, however, that Mr. Tsukatos in 2010, when I was a member of the Committee of Inquiry into "SIEMENS" and referred to evidence against him about the "Black" PASOK funds, had me sued to stop. He's lawsuit too. I've eaten over two hundred lawsuits. Greek justice does not just vindicate me, but by decision - a station documents the involvement of PASOK as the recipient of Christ's money through Tsukatos. And where the ground for punishment had been opened, the justice of Mr. Athanasios, Mr. Doyaku and Mr. Birbu comes. Keep these names, because you'll hear them again very soon. Because they told us then that Mr. Tsukatos did not take the money to PASOK, but to OTE. And at the same time, according to the latest release of "REAL NEWS", they undermined the privatization of the parties and politicians from Christoforkos in sponsorships. They were sponsorships, then, of the Christmas Day! Similar methods take place in the submarine case. They are trying to flee abroad for hundreds of millions of millions because of the allegedly reciprocity. The same happens with all cases. I'm reminiscent of Peponnes' reaction to Korea's attempt to put the CDS case on file. What happened now? Fifteen days ago, the newspaper "NNOS" says the case was opened and court assistance from German justice is already given and the mandate to the banks to see who was bankrupt in the bankruptcy of the Greek people. And then I opened it as a member of the New Democracy with an encouragement from Antony Samaras. But then, instead of looking and finding Andriko Papandreou, who was a friend of Marguellos, a restaurant in Athens met Antonis Samaras' brother with Margelos. And when I asked them what happened with the case, they told me they'd drive me crazy. And so I started writing on facebook and became the Independent Greeks and then believed twenty Members from New Democracy the complaints we made. The result? The result is that to date the Greek people do not know who took the 1.5 billion of the Post Bank with the CDS. Why? Because some people blocked the investigation. And of course, because Mr. Athanasios is looking at me a bit stinky...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u180	Not at all. I admire you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u181	We have interventions in justice against honest judicial officers. Do you remember where Samaras told me: 'Don't be afraid, is Mr. Athanasios here'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u182	Is that what he was telling you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u183	Yeah, that's what he was saying. We have interventions in justice against honest judges who make decisions for me, doing their duty. They are suffering threats and extortion, culminating in the President of the Primary Evangelical Evangelism, who was punished, while denounced by reference to the intervention and pressures of the then President of the Ice Bay, in order to reduce the financial penalty imposed on my opponent, Minister of Antonis Samaras, or otherwise it would be punished by disciplinary action and would not be promoted. That woman was punished. The system 'watched' and 'dried' because it did not follow the provisions. And, of course, the involvement of large businesses is also a given one. Do you remember Mr. Psykharis and the talks he had in his email with Mr. Florus of 'ENERGA', who broke into Mr Samaras to appoint faces of his choice, the señor, in key positions? Then, on the head page, he influenced independent justice, saying that Florus and him as a miracle have to be released. And who was his lawyer? Mr. Vorides was a lawyer in the Florus case, in the case of embezzlement of 270 million. It's a coincidence, of course, a lawyer. But today Mr. Mitsotakis, the Chief of Officerial Response, changes Mr. Meimarakis from the committee responsible for judging Papagelopoulos and puts Mr. Voridis. What's going on with all this? With all this, the Greek people believe that this gang of publishers, businessmen and politicians is powerful. So the answer to this Parliament meeting today, which I want to devote to two journalists...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u184	To Musala, dedicate it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u185	Mrs. Vulture, you're laughing, that's all right. Aristea Bugatsu, however, and Harry Botsaris died, having the misguided that all that they were investigating and denounced, some like you were hiding them and buried, to fight Venizelos and cover the Papantoniou and Chohazopoulou! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u186	Come on, you punk! You punk!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u187	Well, it's over! It's over! You swear as much as you like! Say it again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Venizelo, these are not expressions! Please do not write to the Minutes. It's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u189	You will all pay for the crimes you have committed against the country and we promise that this government will remain upright, alive with the support of the Greek people, so that you can finally get to where you deserve it, to Greek justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u190	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Venizelo, these are not expressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u192	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u193	Please! But that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u194	And return the money you've taken against the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u195	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u196	The President of the Centroon Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u197	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u198	No, we won't cut off the speech order. Please. Mr Kumucasakou, Mr Athanasios, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u199	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u200	The Rules of Procedure are fine. Come on, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u201	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u202	We won't stop talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u203	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u204	We will finish the prototypes and then I will give the floor to those who have asked for the floor on staff. Come on, Mr. Leventis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u205	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u206	Come on, Mr. President. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u207	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u208	There is no point in the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, we will normally continue with the flow and at the end of the prototypes we will look at all the issues relating to what you have raised and what Mr Kumucasos said on personal grounds. Please, Mr. Venizelo, sit down. Mr President, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u209	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u210	It can't be done! It can't be done! Please, let us move on to the flow of the prototypes, and then I will give you the floor for what exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u211	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u212	There's no way. Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u213	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u214	No, it's not like that. We'll move on properly. There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u215	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u216	Rule 67, quoted by Mr Venizelos specifically states that 'a request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure'. There's no violation. We're on our way to prototypes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u217	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u218	There's no matter. We'll move on to the prototypes and then we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u219	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u220	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u221	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u222	We'll proceed with the process properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u223	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u224	The appeal was made for Article 67, not 68. You can get the document, Mr. Athanasios. Article 67(2) says. It's just a violation of the Rules of Procedure. There's no violation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u225	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u226	I support Mr Venizelos' hybrid designations and we are progressing properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u227	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u228	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u229	Please, Mr. Constantine, what are you talking about? But that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u230	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u231	So we're moving on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u232	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u233	Please! A little respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u234	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u235	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Athanasios, right after... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, please listen. He has asked for the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u237	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u238	Mr Athanasios has also requested the floor in accordance with Rule 68. According to Rule 68, he may be given the floor, but the President of the Centro Association will be speaking at the moment. Immediately after that, Mr Athanasios will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u239	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u240	Mr Venizelos cannot speak because he invokes Rule 67, which shows that there has been a violation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. There was no violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u241	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u242	Have a seat, Mr. Venizelo. We will move on to the President of the Central Association and then I will give you the floor, Mr Athanasios. Mr President, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u243	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u244	After the series of prototypes ended, I will give the floor to those who have asked to speak to justify what they want to say. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u245	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u246	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u247	Sit down, please! Mr President, I am sorry for the upset. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I did not expect such a turbulence. When you postponed the day of this debate because it coincided with the tragic events in Brussels, you knew that you wanted to exacerbate the climate and the day was not there. You have transferred the debate a few days, until today it is offered to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u249	Are we to blame again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u250	No, never you. It's the Hall, you guys never! I once spoke to a channel of arithmetic dictatorship and there were uprooted "Declaration"? And only when with the voices, you're trying to overshadow each other, it's nothing beautiful. What do you want to uproot? He wanted a congressman to speak. She felt that she was being persecuted. I granted my place. Do you want him to talk next to have the impression evaporated? Maybe. In any case, if we listened to Mr. Tsipras, we would feel that we are in a country with broken problems, a country in which the laws work, everything that is crazy, those who feel bad in this country. He came and said Mr Tsipras that he is late to give justice, that there are interventions in justice and that there may be interventions. I'll tell you a story that happened five to six years ago. I was in Thessaloniki, Aristotle Square. I'm approached by a gentleman - I didn't know him - and he says to me "I'm a prosecutor of the Ice Bay", a virtue probably. I say 'What are you doing here?' And he responds "I was sent to check on some judges for a mistrial. When there are mistrial cases, I come and control them. Now I came to Thessaloniki." I say, 'Do we get mistrials?'. He says, “Of course, it is done and I get the whole file and I examine it. I am going to sit around for twenty days," he says, "Mr. Leventis. You're just struggling. There is a great sepsis.” I say to him: 'In the area of justice from which the citizen is waiting and you tell me, a senior minister?' I am told "you're wrestling, Mr. Leventis." And in justice there is a sepsis!'. This is the most indisputable testimony. This man didn't even know his name well - he didn't tell me well. Then he barely told me after I pushed him. I say to him "When you're retired, come and talk a little bit." And he described some things to me: Pressures on the upper tiles of justice. So there are surely pressures on each other. This regime has sins from all sides. It's not just that one side is to blame or the other one is to blame, as you want to present it. When you charge the neo-democrats to the symbiotes some things, you say the truth, as you say when the Syrians count against the New Democracy, you are again telling the truth. It's a rotten regime. That's Greece. And here you're struggling to convince us that everything is angelically made. Mr. Mitsotakis said that in the New Republic of Constantine Karamanlis you can't face anything. He had principles, the New Democracy of Constantine Karamanlis had values. Then why did the world leave New Democracy after it was so good? It was a stupid world you'd tell me. Go for the best. He had the good part, and he was looking for the perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u251	Always.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u252	He's pinching on promises.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u253	In any case, the debates that are taking place here are similar to the theater of irrationality. I don't know who's convinced. When you applaud, what do you applaud? I really don't understand. Are you applauding your achievements? Today at noon I went somewhere for a personal matter with my eyes. Look at my eyes for a while. There was a lady I said: "Night put on TV. I will speak on TV." It tells me "What time?" I say to her "After ten, my turn will come." I didn't know the time. 'Oh,' he says, 'I don't have TV'. And we're talking about a lady doctor, socially high. And I say 'Why?' 'I have disgusted' says 'Mr Leventis'. At that time, like I was stabbed in my chest. I was told by a lady educated that she closed the TVs because she is disgusting about the paradoxes. He told me exactly that word!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u254	Did he say specifically?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Prime Minister isn't here. He left Mr Kurubli and Mr Voutsi - excellent both of you - and all of you, listen to me. Mr. Kurublis wants, he says, to bring in a system proportional. I, ladies and gentlemen, only know the simple analogue you want 50% plus one vote to form a government. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] And I know that the Left was the perfect one. No more proportional systems or cutting regions. These are terraces. I know of a simple analogue that the whole Chamber has betrayed. And Andreas Papandreou had it on 3 September and betrayed it when he found the golden chairs of the right and you now, of course, write it in your old shoes and you put Mr. Kurubly to pull the snake out of the hole, to convince us that what he's going to do is just proportional. It's okay. Fortunately the man doesn't see and see the disgrace that is being done. Mr. Kurublis once complained when I said everyone was speaking by manuscript. He says to me: 'For me don't say it, because at least I can't read a manuscript.' I do recognize that. But, in any case, ladies and gentlemen, you would notice that Mr Kammenos wanted Mr Muzalas removed because he said the word 'Macedonia'. It's a matter of honor to Mr. Kammenos, he's not picking it up. With Mr. Balaura, did he swallow it? [[Applause]] Finally, what is the position for Macedonia? Thessaloniki and Macedonia need to know what the position is. For the Centro Association, it's to change name. That's it. What is it for you? Double? Monastery? What is it? Go to Macedonia, if you can. Clearly, it is not Macedonia's risk of playing it in dice. It is a people who are proud and democratic, which you underestimate. He'll show you in the elections what Macedonia is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u256	And you are now plundering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u257	Parliament must make clear its position. Skopje will be changed if they want to help them get into organisations such as the European Union, such as NATO, like others. It's over and out. I, too, invited the American Ambassador and the Russians, two ambassadors who first went and recognized the word 'Macedonia'. In fact, the Russians told me that 'when we did it, the circumstances were different'. I said to him: Now that the circumstances have changed, why not withdraw it? Well, that's it. It is by decision of the President of the Republic that if this Chamber has a little value, we should say clearly to the neighbors, or they change their name, or Greece will never recognize them. This is the position of the Central Association. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] You're talking about combating corruption, tax evasion. What prevents the government from moving forward? I don't understand it. Fifteen months is you're in government, spending week after week, month after month. What prevents the government from moving forward? What are the difficulties? Mr. Nikoloudis, who said there are difficulties in collecting money, the ones who made it abroad, is yours. We didn't bring him. I will tell you this: The New Democracy says that Mr Papagelopoulos has gone to check on it. I, despite being out of his role, agree to enter and control. He's the minister responsible for learning and controlling. I do not agree with the New Democracy. Into check, after he has a wish to pursue the tax evasion. What upsets you, Mr. Mitsotakis, should the Minister come in? Are you being suffocated? He's supposed to be fighting to stop tax evasion. You should be glad. That's how I feel. Are you afraid? No, I guess. Do you mind if the Minister comes in? What, is it bad in what? Is it against the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u258	Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u259	Yes, it is against the law! We say: Change the law to be able! [[Applause]] If you're doing everything, you guys! In here, in this room, you can do everything. And you're a bourgeoisie. You said Mr. Samaras left a good state. Do you know how good the state is? They asked me at a foreign station: If Samaras lived and there were no elections, would the state be good? I answered them: not one investor had come. How would the state be good? Don't be delusional. You don't convince anyone, too. If one hadn't come? An entire Samaras, who sat for a couple of years, who said we were about to get out of the memorials and hadn't come in here to invest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u260	But now we are!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u261	You blame Mr. Marda for finding the refugees money. But this law, to find the migrant investors, had been made by Samaras with Mr. Venizelos. It was your law. Why are you sad Mardas said? Mardas may have been a little preposterous and thought he was fat from there. Okay, that might have been overreacting. However, the law on the arrival of investments through immigrants is your law, your inspiration. If, in other words, there is nonsense, you are involved in the nucleus of foolishness. Let's explain. You know, in recent times, they have unleashed a wave of mud against me and they say - there's been a show at a TV station - that I'm a German-friendly or that I'm supporting the Christophobus. Of course, they didn't let me there say my views, they were many journalists, they attacked me by four journalists. As I do all of this before Parliament - I have this principle - I will tell you my views on the Christmas, but also on how german I am. They once accused Eleftherios Venizelo of being an Englishman. And Eleftherios Venizelos took Greece as far as he is. And Venizelos said: "Let me be accused of being an English friend. I'm more Greek than anyone. I simply think that at this time Greece's interest is to be with England." I therefore know in this Chamber that you have all been haunted around Europe and the euro. The New Democracy two years was an antimony, and then it was a memorial and now it has become an antimony. Tsipras six years found Europeans having other solutions. I was outside the House at the time, but I always supported the euro and Europe. I've never been agitated. Why wasn't I taken care of? Because I felt that Greece's interest is with Europe. There was no way out of Europe. It was crazy. That's how I believe it, and I still believe it. And the mistake that we made in 2009 is that we looked into taking the doses each time, without making the reforms. They blamed me today at a radio station, at the REAL FM, for saying that in two months I can get the country out of the memorandum. I didn't say that. I said that if there is a stable government in the euro and in Europe, which will start reforms at all levels, within two months the country will be back to normal. I believe that and now. If we build tomorrow a European government that starts reforms and convinces foreigners that reforms are carried out at all levels, this government will bring the country back to normal pace. Why are we nervous, nervous, constantly taxing, all this? Because we looked at the puppies, mocking the strangers, and finally mocking ourselves. And we pay them double, because the little one gets, eventually, ends up taking everything, even the other's underpants. To explain. There was no courage to tell the truth to the people. Mr. Tsipras six years said he has other solutions, that he unites the south against the north, that Merkel will be afraid of him. And he went to one night on July 12th and signed it all. And now what does Mr. Tsipras do? This conversation here, where do you think it is? Like soup pours ink to blur the waters, so Mr. Tsipras, because he's on the eve of terrible taxes and horrific burdens, he's trying to discuss what's going on. We have another job, that is, right now. Let's put taxes, let's die people in pension cuts and wages, we're chasing the complexion. Hey, chase her! Who's blocking you? Societies want results! Do it! Why are you breast-feeding? People got tired of you. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] Some wonder why I insist on consensus. You know, I'm gonna get tired of insisting. I insist because I think that six years no investor has come here because they see a government with a hundred and fifty-three seats ready, and all journalists say that some Members may not vote for alpha or beta law. What investor will come under these circumstances to invest? I have proposed - not in my desire to throw Tsipras away, but in my desire and in my agony to end the tragedy of this society - a government of forty seats. Why did I suggest that? I have proposed it for investment and for Europeans to see a serious and determined government in front of them, which will be the last attempt of this society, that country to remain in the euro before the grexit. I look forward to what I ask of a wider government tread. I look forward, on the one hand, to investment and, on the other, to Europeans retreating and making the programme more elastic. Mr Tsipras goldenens the pill and says: "Declar the tough measures, you SYRIZA Members will cut us off." What debt will be cut you after the official people of the European Union are constantly coming out and saying: 'Nominal debt will be cut by 1 euro. All that can be done is to extend the debt further." Do you consider that cut? So to charge your children with your sins, do you consider it beneficial? Is it beneficial to move beyond the country's charge? Anyway, I don't know what you're thinking, honestly. And at the time when we are seeking consensus - the government says that it is seeking consensus - it at that time brings such discussions that forced Mr Venizelos to speak with serious expressions, admittedly inappropriate to Parliament. However, if it was to an extent irreparable, the speaker should have noticed. Let's tell the truth. Isn't that right? In order to force a parliamentarian - with whom I disagree in everything and in much he has done - to use such a phrase in Parliament - I have never heard it - it means that the speaker at the Side of Speaking had created the preconditions for Mr Venizelos' misappropriation. I think so. Unless Mr. Venizelos went crazy and himself stood up and spoke like that. It's not like that. Ladies and gentlemen, after some time, you will all remember in this Chamber that a Vassilis Leventis who, after thirty-five years, tried to bring the seed of consensus under the irony of Parliament's two largest wings. I don't know if you're happy, but 20 days ago, there was a poll that had me first in popularity. Did I do something to be the first in popularity? Did I find the tuberculosis drug or the cancer medicine? Oh, no. I am talking about consensus and a spirit of unity. This is what I believe made the people want me, and all the publications are against me. There's a wave of mud. You know it. Read the publications. First of all, all the publications for Mrs. Gennimatas, for Mr. Theodorakis, are praiseworthy for all of you. See a praiseworthy comment on Vassilis Leventis in a newspaper! That shows the predisposition. There's no interest in my word. But I will continue and insist, because I believe that both Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis are now in prison. Mr. Tsipras is trapped in five, six ministers who tell him: "Go to the end and what happens." It is a sign of inability to go to a wider government." And Mr. Mitsotakis is trapped because the hard and thermo-heads of his party say: "Let Tsipras collapse. Who's coming after him? We're the ones." But these are old-fashioned, which the people criticize, so they took the parties from 48% to 20%, to 22%, to 25%, and barely. And you, SYRIZA, presenting yourself as a new party, are not a new party. The whole PASOK is inside. PASOK became 3%, 4%. They've been transferred to you. Where was Mr. Kourublis so far? Was it at SYRIZA? Mrs. Katselie, where was she? Is that two? You want to count?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u262	Don't have a dialogue, please. It's time. Mr President, if you're kind, you can finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u263	Wherever I go and meet managers of agencies and others, they say: 'I was PASOK', 'I was PASOK'. What was Mr. Toskas? Was it New Democracy? It was PASOK's, wasn't it? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Oh, no! All right! You want one of us to catch them to see how many people they are? Or haven't you counted them? Listen, Mr Kammenos who is here - not Panos Kammenos - said one day in this Chamber - I was not here - that I had said those who said no to the referendum poorly. I ask Mr. Kammenos to read the entire statement. Here's what the statement was like. I, in the referendum, took a stand in favour of the void, because I thought it was fiasco, because when George Papandreou went to a referendum, he was insane. Because when Tsipras tried to do it he was reasonable? There are no referendums on strategic issues unless some are playing with the euro and with Europe. Well, I said that as it had evolved over the last week it was a matching between vegetarians and lukewarms. Only I added - pay attention to what I added - that you will see, says, at the end of Sunday night and the others will not be betrayed. And they will not be betrayed, because Tsipras will go to jail if he gets Greece out of the euro. They had therefore predicted that ‘yes’ and ‘no’ equal ‘yes’. So, let him know, Mr Kammenos, that I did not say sluggish of those who said 'no', I betrayed them. They went with passion to vote for something, thinking it would work and come out at night 'yes'. Is Mr. Pappas here? No, everyone is missing - he told me in an interview 'unreliable'. Thank you. In a previous interview, however, I was said to be "reliable". What does he think of me, by all means? If I voted for SYRIZA, would I be reliable and now I'm unreliable, gentlemen? That's how you depend on credibility? As for Mr. Kammenos, the other now, the Chief, the one who made Venizelo come out of his clothes, I went to inform me to the Ministry of Defence. He says to me: 'We made a very nice agreement in NATO.' I say: 'To show her to me'. It shows me the agreement that Turkey will send us one and we will send her another one. I say to him: 'And do you expect Turkey to do that?' He says, "What do you mean? He signed it.’ I say to him: has Turkey ever signed it? He says: 'What do you mean?' I say to him: “Turkey expects in particular to get money from Europe first and second to do that it is involved in European agreements with what purpose? To lead Greece to the question of Kastelorizos being Dodecanese, the demilitarisation of the Dodecanese, the failure to recognize the FIR of Athens. These are Turkey's wishes." And I'll tell you an old story George Black told me about you right-wing people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u264	That's a long time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u265	It's not old.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, if possible, complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u267	For George Black, you're also due to something you're there to be free. So here's what he said to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, if you are kind, please tell the story and finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u269	He went and achieved condemnative resolutions - I heard you, Mr President - George Black against Turkey on the departure from Cyprus. The year ’74 had achieved condemnative resolutions as Vice - President of the National Unity Government. So when the elections took place and the New Democracy won and delivered the portfolio - he was Vice-President and Foreign Minister - he goes to the President Karamanlis and says to him: "These resolutions with pain and blood have succeeded in condemning Turkey to the Security Council". It was a Security Council then and a UN, it was not a Council of Europe. "Please, he says, never make bilateral contacts with Turkey, because that is what Turkey expects. You'll have the UN talk to Turkey. Because if Greece goes to speak with Turkey, they are lost, these resolutions are burned in the fire. This is what Turkey expects to formally put its claims for the Aegean Sea, for the FIR of Athens, for territorial waters, for one, for the other.’ Karamanlis told him "all right", but immediately afterwards he went to bilateral. He didn't listen to Black and a disgrace has been perpetuated ever since. I did the same under the President of the Republic days ago. I tell him Tsipras: 'Don't go to bilateral talks with Turkey or to confidence-building measures. Turkey expects this to legitimise its claims and will be a major mistake." They're witnessing all the parties' chiefs that I told him. Mr. Tsipras went to Smyrna and heard that Kastelorizo is not Greek, it is an Eastern Mediterranean, that FIR Athens does not exist, all of these known, that the Dodecanese must be demilitarised. It is a huge responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the government, for what has gone to bilateral discussions with Turkey. Turkey finds it very convenient to hold Greek-Turkish discussions. Watch this, please, this. Let this stay. I believe there are also serious people in the government. Not everyone is the way some people think. I, at least, always listen to the conversation. I talked to George Rally, and you know what he told me? And the most bad one being Prime Minister, when he takes over, respects the chair he sits a little. He respects you. It doesn't betray the country either. That's how George Rallys told me. In the name of this conversation by George Rally, which the whole world is questioning, I accept that there are serious people in the government. But they should know. Whether I believe that the government will not be long-term and will soon come another and will be happy for the country, I have to tell them this: do not do things that betray the country. Because I think you don't want it and if you do it, you do it out of incompetence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u270	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to a number of colleagues who have asked for the floor, I should like to inform you that the prototype of two Ministers is followed at the appropriate time. Then we enter the cycle of seconds with the Prime Minister and the party leaders. The Prime Minister has the opportunity to quantify and we also have the seconds of the two ministers. I'm talking about respect for time. They asked for the floor on personal and other issues, Mr Kumucaskos, Mr Athanasios and Mr Venizelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u271	First thing I can imagine is that it's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u272	No, Mr. Kumoutsakos said it more ahead, then Mr. Athanasios and then you. Well, Mr. Kumucaco, strictly for two minutes, please for the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u273	Less, Mr President. Mr President, I have asked for the floor for a personal statement, because Mr Kammenos has given me the honour of referring to my name. But after the gigantic dimensions, sad and self-fulfilling for him, in front of the Hellenes, on the subject Musala - Balaura, I just want to say that I despise to comment and I do not care for his words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. Mr. Athanasios has the floor for two minutes, likewise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to refer to the reports both made by the Prime Minister and Mr Kammenos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have served at the Ministry of Justice for about a year and a half and I am proud of the legislative work that we have done both internally, for internal law and in the European legal system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u276	That's a great play!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u277	Please, be quiet if you're kind. Go on, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u278	I shall refer to the complaints that the Prime Minister has said about the legislation. It's not nine. You mentioned them, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in your book, in the "Black Bible" that you made at the end of May 2014; it was released in June of '14; and then I received a press release that I will submit and answer one by one: The Prime Minister did not offer anything today. It reminds me of the whole presence of the issue - and of the book and of the reports - that we have overcome the famous Che Potta, the Minister of Propaganda of Mao Tse Tung. Now, with regard to one: for Article 263, the Prime Minister had to be informed by lawyers - and has good lawyers, lawyers, SYRIZA - that we did not remove all 263, which extended the status of civil servant, as provided for in the Criminal Code in Article 13, who is a civil servant, extended it to other offences. We removed what suited the individual to the Legal Persons of Private Law with a civil servant. One who was getting a union of your village, ladies and gentlemen, a prostitute club, who was going to get a loan from a bank to paint his pledge, if he hadn't paid it, had to go indicted as a civil servant. That had to change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u279	Complete your thoughts, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, a great deal has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u281	Evidently they have been said, but it is a political debate, you understand now. It's not a personal matter. It's a political criticism. Wait a minute, Mr. Athanasios, you will continue. Your party leader has the ability to refer to these issues in his second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u282	It's my personal concern.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u283	Yeah, I get it, but you have one more minute. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u284	I'd be done. Listen to me, the Prime Minister referred to too many legislation. I will only refer to what concerns me as the Minister of Justice. So you will give me some time to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u285	I can't give you much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u286	Why? Don't you want to hear the truth?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u287	It's not a matter of truth. Do not address the colleagues. To the Bureau, please, Mr Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u288	In this piece of legislation, and the Ice Bay plenary said that it was over-enlarged - even uses the word'reasonable' - the status of civil servant and the central legislature of the House said the same. Mr. Minister of Justice, when I delivered you the draft law of the Criminal Code, which was first made by Mr. Manoledakis, and then on the first committee Mrs. Symmonidou, and then Mr. Marquis, has been removed in the entire 236. Therefore, you could inform the Prime Minister that everyone was in agreement with this provision. As far as the other issues are concerned, I should like to say briefly, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Athanasios, please, we've reached four minutes. You have one more minute to complete. If you're kind, or I can't, I'll remove your word. The debate is on the level of leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u290	Good, Mr. President. Don't talk about revocation of decisions and corruption. I do not want to say it with Mr Paraskevi, because we did have good cooperation, and we were interested in the legal culture of the country, regardless of whether we disagreed. But you, Minister, have passed provisions in which felonies which are punishable from ten to twenty years, if they had served only one third of the sentence, you have brought them out. In forty days, ladies and gentlemen, there have been four hundred major criminals indicted by armed robberies, homicides, paedophiles, etc. What kind of moral advantage do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u291	Now we're completely out of line. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u292	Mr. President, mercy! It's out of the question. They'll be told by your Chief. Don't you know the Rules of Procedure? You don't have the floor today. It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u293	When the Prime Minister refers to legislation, he must receive an answer, because he should have been informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u294	Your chief will bring them. Mr. Athanasios, complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u295	Therefore, there is no... When we took over, Mr President, and I conclude, our country, as far as corruption is concerned, was under surveillance by international organisations. In two years, as our Chief, Mr. Mitsotakis, said, we have managed in the international anti-corruption table to improve our country and its position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u296	Good. Thank you very much. Mr Venizelos, you have asked for the floor under Rule 67(2). Can you explain to us what the incident is?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u297	The incident, Mr President, is that I asked for the floor on staff and pursuant to Rule 68, because there was a reproach against my face, I had to take him immediately after Mr Kammenos's speech. You have deprived me of a fundamental parliamentary right, and you have violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u298	Rescind first and then!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u299	So there is a question of insulting Parliament's Rules of Procedure and you are giving me the floor on personal grounds...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u300	Now move on to the personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u301	...in accordance with the terms of Article 68 and the times. Mr. Kammenos is known in relation to the way he handles public affairs. He went to Stepma, speaking as President of his party and Minister of National Defence, but which he has, and among many other inaccuracies, said deliberately and consciously: firstly, I am responsible for the status of the protection of ministers through the law on the liability of ministers in force in the country. The country has been governed by a system of criminal liability of ministers which has been the same since 1864. In the Review of the 2001 Constitution by a broad majority, almost unanimously, the parliament tightened the constitutional provision by extending its time-limit to blame from one summit to two, i.e. doubled the time. And then, Mr Petsalnikos, as Minister of Justice, introduced a law on the responsibility of ministers that all parties and the coalition then and the whole House unanimously voted on. So it has given me a reproach which is self-proof and has not been kept at this point, which, in any case, is moral. He returned the issue of the infamous submarines to a pluralist. I have told the House that it is no coincidence that in the distribution of responsibilities between the Minister and the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of National Defence Mr. Tsipras removed the competence of the Navy armaments and assigned it to Mr. Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u302	I'll tell you more later. Wait!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Vitsas and Mr. Tsipras personally asked me to testify to the arbitration trial conducted in order to defend the interests of the Greek State, and I did so last Tuesday with an opponent of the law firm Venopoulos, representing the interests of investors from the United Arab Emirates. I did so with great pleasure, because the legal basis for the positions of the Hellenic Republic is the requirement to implement the law and the contract signed in 2010 to defend the interests of the public, pursuant to the law. 3885/2010. When this law was passed, Mr. Kammenos, who does not remember what he has done, because he changes his place every day, perhaps twice a day, was in favour of the actions of the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u304	And three times!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u305	I shall submit the minutes of the committee responsible. On page 21, it is Mr Kammenos's report. He also turned his arrows to Mrs Katseli, now a political associate of his government and a Governor of the National Bank and against environmental officials George Papandreou. This 2010 contract, you know what he did? He protected 2 billion drachmas he had given in exchange for the Greek State. Who gave this money? Only the PASOK ministers, such as Tsohatzopoulos or Mr Papantoniou and the ministers of the New Democracy and the top of Mr Spilios Spiliotopoulos, with whom Mr Kammenos was cooperating and mentioned it on several occasions? Eight hundred million! And he received five submarines in his ownership, the Greek state and now he's fascinating the Navy and delighting the country with constant reports about what extremely submarines glorify the Mediterranean fleets, our submarines, that "TENOS" is the best submarine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u306	Please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u307	Therefore, anyone who dares, in other words, turn around, offends those who have defended the public interest, have given content to the money of the Greek people and have supplied the Armed Forces with modern weapons, is unworthy of being Minister of National Defence and being addressed to Parliament and searching for me. I conclude with one sentence: Listen, it is the biggest insult that concerns the substance of the debate. The essence of the conversation, do you know what it is? That we have a lawsuit filed by prosecutors against a minister, the Deputy Minister of Justice, for extortion and threat, to insult the
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u308	Now go on a non-personal issue, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u309	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u310	Complete your thoughts alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u311	And here comes the Prime Minister and says, I write a letter from a former Prime Minister of PASOK, now a member of the party of George Papandreou, in which he says that the businessman involved in this case has done one, he has done the other, he has done the third, the Cypriots are interested... So if a case concerns someone who is good or bad, sympathetic or dislike, then it violates the independence of justice? Then can the Deputy Minister intervene, blackmail and threaten?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u313	Is it a phenomenon for Parliament that the government, the Prime Minister and nominally affected prosecutors, the prosecutors, the Minister of National Defence, should distinguish between the good president of the Ice Bay and the bad prosecutor of the Ice Bay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u314	Good, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u315	You have raped and corrupted the hearts of institutions and the rule of law, which is justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u316	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u317	You relax and threaten and manipulate judges! Rule of law in Greece does not exist!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u318	Okay, fine. We're moving on. The Minister, Mr Kammenos, has the floor for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u319	Mr Venizelos professionally has undertaken to cover such scandals. I read to you in 2005, when the Committee of Inquiry chaired by Mr. Tragakis, for the scandal of armed systems for Aki Tsohatzopoulos arrived the bills for offshore companies in Aki, Evangelos Venizelos said: "It is not accounts, it is telephone numbers." That's how the case ended then. Similarly, Mr Venizelos, when he came to the Committee on Armaments, I was with Mr Meimarakis and Mr Tasoula, not only did we say that we were opposed to this, we expressed our reservations and, unfortunately, we were entitled. Because it may be that the gorgeous submarines dominate the Aegean - that is true because they were created by the Navy - but to be so proud we paid 500 million, because Mr Venizelos made the deal with Mr. Safha - plus two other submarines, which were not on the account. In other words, the account that Mr Venizelos charged to the Greek people, we paid him the above. Mr. Safa flew, left the shipyard, and the world stayed on the road. Mr. Venizelos, of course, when we said to him: "Look at you, you made the deal, you have to go to the Arbitration Court," he gathered the tail under the legs and went to the referee's court because he knows that he will face criminal responsibilities, because he has personal responsibility for this agreement with Mr. Safha, who came here, signed, grabbed 500 million, got another contract for two submarines and ran away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u320	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u322	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u323	This is not personal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u324	Please, a little quiet to finish the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u325	He's unrepentant and he's constantly getting worse in his presence in the public speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u326	And I'll get even worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u327	You know very well that with the agreement - which is not an agreement, it is a law of the state - the Greek Navy acquired ownership of the submarines and saved EUR 2 billion, which were thrown away, of which 800 had been thrown over the days, for which Mr Kammens is proud. And now what the Navy is asking for is to become the submarines, which we have agreed to since 2010. I didn't go to defend the views of Kammenos. I went to defend the interests of the Hellenic Republic, the Navy, and most importantly I went because I am glad to see the government defending what I have done. Can I tell you something as a scene from next? The defence of the Government in the European Court of Human Rights of debt cuts and the PSI in our actions is better than we in this House do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u328	All right, it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u329	Because he lies to the MPs here and he does more to the courts internationally. He lies to the people and their MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, I would just like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u331	Minister, so we can't move on. Yeah, for thirty, but we're triggering a circle of conversations that doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Venizelos forgets that Mr. Safa today is on the board of 'MIG' and the second that Mr. Venizelos forgets and does not answer him in public...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u333	Good. Mr. Justice Minister, prepare to come to Stepma, because we won't be able to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u334	...is this: Is there a relative of him on the shares of MARFIN, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, you must give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u336	No, no. Impossible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u337	What he said was reproach!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, this cannot continue!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u339	Impossible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u340	Evidently, Mr. Burtone, the only literature he reads is the Bobollah papers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u341	But that's not how it works. We can't move on. Impossible. We have at least two more hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u342	Listen, Mr. Kammenos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u343	Minister, come on. No way, Mr. Venizelo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, I would like the floor, please. I want to ask a question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u345	No, no. The question is not a reason for replying under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u346	One phrase, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u347	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u348	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u349	You don't have the floor. You're not helping.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u350	A phrase...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u351	You will tell your President to answer Mr Kammens in her second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u352	No, there's no dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u353	Impossible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u354	You have an obligation of honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u355	No, no. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u356	This is a disgraceful policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u357	Let's move on. Minister, come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u358	Mr. Kourakis, please. Don't make political disgrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u359	No, it can't. This thing can't go on. This House has been afflicted for so long!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u360	Please! It's a shame to fear my truth and my voice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u361	If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u362	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u363	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u365	Shame on you, Mr. Paraskevi, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u366	I have good news. I think we can calm down. We'll calm down because a Minister of Responsibility will speak to you, just like Mrs. Genemas said earlier. As it was referring to secret services, he said that there is also the Minister, Mr. Paraskeviopoulos, the absent minister. Why did he call me "above" Minister? The first thing I thought about is whether I'm absent from the legislation. Because the Ministry of Justice was now very active in law and because the legislation, which it presented to the House, was not only numerous, but it was also contradictory and the House felt them, could not have described me as "absorbing" Minister due to the lack of legislative work. Has I been described as "apocalyptic" Minister because, as far as justice infrastructures is concerned, did we not work at the Ministry of Justice? However, the Prime Minister has already mentioned that the stockpile of cases pending at least in the administrative prototypes for which we have been investigating has been reduced from 30 June 2015 to today, which means that a significant task has been undertaken to speed up the functioning of justice. Likewise, the dates for determining the cases of the peace tribunal have now ceased to be so distant. So there has been work in infrastructure. And there has also been work on the infrastructures of our country's prisons. And that is well known and because there has been a decongestion by two thousand people in our prisons, not enough - because tonnage is still much smaller - but in any case so important that conditions have improved considerably. Of course, conditions have improved because of other innovations. What is the Minister's decision? I'll tell you. I'm absent, because I never called any judges, any prosecutors, anything to tell him about any case! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And for another reason I am absent: because when I was called by some people whose names were heard here, I never accepted to answer. That's why I'm absent. I apologize for the tension. I'll calm down. If anyone listens to this debate from a distance, he will believe that the issues that the government understands as basic questions of justice and the issues that an important part of counterpopulation understands are quite different. The government says that the main problem with justice at the moment is the need for a fair response to corruption. Opposition as the main theme at the moment is seeing interventions in justice. What's going on between you and me? What's the right thing to do? I'll examine both of them. Let me first say that I do not go so far as to endorse completely the fact that the main issue of justice today is corruption, firstly because, of course, corruption is not just today's problem, it is not an unprecedented problem, nor is it a problem for our country alone, but, of course, justice means much more than corruption, which is indeed an important problem. However, as far as corruption is concerned, I would like to say that the problem, which was particularly exposed by the Prime Minister here as a problem of corruption in the country and a failure to control it, was not answered, because the Prime Minister named and referred to thirteen legislative regulations, which have introduced retroactive block exemption without answering them. Of course, cases where retrospective cases are referred to in particular cases and it is stated that there are no responsibilities for them that have been referred to as ‘krypt amnesty’. Because our Constitution considers that only in the case of amnesty a crime that has been committed can be left without a crisis. And, of course, only if we have a political crime, or if we have a 3/5 majority of this House, which decides on the designation of amnesty, we can accept that we have something similar. We therefore have to deal with important cases of corruption, for which there was no reply. Why also in these cases, in the legislation which has been mentioned in other corruption cases, which has been mentioned here, what counter-provocation has been heard? What did we hear? Report to cats! And what else? We have heard a reason for corruption, corruption, but corruption is also the collapse of conscience. And we went ahead and the lists and lists aren't just those, lists are other charges. A list may also set up a number of cases that never came to justice. And by generalisation, we finally forget what corruption means and what it means. What I would like to say, however, is that references to corruption and references to interventions in justice on the part of most speakers earlier in the area of opposition, most of the Presidents, are absolutely selective. They did not notice the same as interventions in justice as those who spoke earlier. As far as the interventions are concerned, the opposition did not consider the cases in which the legislature came to resolve matters which have been raised, pending before justice or are ready to come before justice. This was of no interest to us as an intervention. The philology of the intervention was also largely based on the prosecution of a prosecutor, but without the fact that a prosecutor, who handles a case-file, visited a minister to speak to him friendlyly. I ask: When did it happen again? Have you ever heard of a court officer visiting a Minister to speak with him, even friendlyly, about a case-file? What happened, this visit, did it seem to you to be an intervention in justice? It seems to me that the reason for intervening in justice in this Chamber and so far is entirely selective. Of course, there has also been mention in the debate on the fight against corruption and on the regulation - 'Agriculture' - which is commonly called - that banned evidence has been allowed in some cases and the anti-constitutional regulation has been characterised as an anti-constitutional regulation. The truth is that the Constitution does stipulate that they should not be used, that the use of illegally acquired evidence is prohibited. However, the Constitution itself also has another provision, which is more fundamental, in my assessment, and nonetheless from the fundamental stones and justice and our legal order, which recognises or grants - if you like - the citizen the right to judicial protection. Is there judicial protection on the part of the citizen, if in any case the means of proof is only one, and that is forbidden to use it? No, justice can't intervene, she has her hands tied up. Does he want this constitution? No, it's the answer, he doesn't want it. We have two regulations, which in some case are enough to conflict. What can be done to solve the problem? That is exactly what the legislator has tried to do, the solution to the problem is to be given by constitutional criteria such as those set out in the amendment, namely the uniqueness of the instrument, the proportionality and also the fact that the way in which this has been acquired does not affect human dignity. If all these conditions, which are constitutional, are met, then the right to legal protection for the citizen is not bent and justice can go ahead using evidence. So what did this government receive in the field of justice? He has, as you have heard, received a huge number of outstanding cases, which certainly prevented and continues to some extent to be important in preventing its operation. It is the main issue - if you like - for the institutions too, the fact that our justice is being given so slowly. I will not read you figures, but I will remind you that even the pluralism, which has been rightly mentioned as a problem of Greek justice, is certainly taking steps. It has taken steps, because it has set up legislative committees - around ten - in order to carry out legislative work in a systematic way so that the phenomenon of scattered legislation and the large number of legislative texts no longer continues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u367	How many decisions are there, not how many are pending. It's a different thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u368	In addition to the pending cases, I must remind you that this government, in the case of judges' judgements on the position of the Presidents of the courts, has worked in a way which was both worthwhile and in line with the Constitution. I must tell you that in 2015 there were more crises pending than in other times, precisely because we had a change of leadership in four courts of the country and not in one. This has, of course, resulted in a higher number of those who came to the highest ranks of the court and those who have been omitted. But who have been omitted to speak of an interventionist function of this government in justice? Of the four headquarters of the four courts, the two were elected by the oldest judges and the other two elected judges, who were typically posted fourth, but in fact second, because those intervening were those judges, who had only one more year of stay in justice and, according to a tradition older than our country, those who have been able to stay in the highest court for only one year are excluded from the crises, because they are not able to carry out work within a year, which is often not complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u369	Minister, that's not accurate. You have forty-seven judges. You didn't miss two!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Athanasios, don't interfere, please. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. We have not omitted forty-seven, Mr. Athanasios. We had judgments in four courts and not in one - as this year's to be -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u372	It's not like that. Three courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u373	...and the number, if slightly increased, is due to the fact that we missed, as was the case in the past, the judges, who had only one year ahead of them. With regard to the leaps, which you have spoken about, I must tell you that, having led to the presidency, the leadership of the highest courts, judges who had first to fourth in the hierarchy of Vice-Presidents, we have acted more respectfully in hierarchy and antiquity than before, which promoted the position of the President of the Council of State the youngest of Vice-Presidents, or even in the ultimate past in the position of President of the Ice Bay, who was not even a Vice-President. Of course, we also had promotions in the positions of Vice-Presidents and eighteenth and eighteenth in a row. What you say, Mr. Athanasios, is not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u374	Not for these days, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u375	I'm not talking about your days. I am referring to all the previous governments. I say, once again, that what the current government has done, by moving to the position of President of the Ice Bay, only judges who were from the first to the fourth - guys - in fact, superior ones, combined dignity with respect for antiquity. In addition, I have to say to you: in addition to delays in justice, we have received absolutely problematic prisons. This is not my personal remark. It is the product, if you would like, and international justice, which left us not only many convictions about the conditions in prisons in our country and the conditions of hospitality in them, but also through the European Commission for the Prevention of Torture, we have been officially designated for our country, with a public declaration, as a country which does not respect the rights of the prisoners, a designation which has been given only in our country, Chechnya, Bulgaria and Turkey. This designation given to our country is not only a moral mark in our country over the past few days...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u376	For the crowd, we were convicted. Not on respect for human rights, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u377	Don't interrupt, Mr. Athanasios, please. Minister, let's slowly finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u378	Yes, Mr President, in a minute and a half I can be done. It is not only a moral designation, but it is also an element that takes into account the case law of the European Court of Justice, which has condemned us so many times and we have paid so much money to date. When we took over the government, the European Court of Justice had a hundred and ninety applications against our country on prison matters. A year ago, only one application has been lodged, in addition, in relation to all the previous ones. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would have a lot to say, Mr President, but I really do not want to get far, nor do I like the tactics of the speakers who ask for half a minute and do three. I will finish by saying this: this government will hand over a justice to the country, which will be far higher than that to which it has been received, with this state of prison and with these delays, in the effort to bring justice to corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Paradise. The floor is held by the Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Dimitris Papagelopoulos, for 10 minutes. If you're kind enough to confine yourself to time, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr President. In advance, however, I say that please, because time is too little for what I have to say, for a little tolerance both from you and from this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u381	Yeah, you'll have a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u382	Because I'm personally concerned about this. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I were to ask for help and advice on the process of today's debate, and then I blamed the person who helped me and advised me, that he intervened in my judgment and in my duties, how would you judge me and what would you characterize me? As I said before, my time is too little for what I have to say. But I am waiting for the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which I will have a lot more time there, and I will say a lot more. I will give you one or two minutes to make a few points about what I have heard in this House today. I'm starting with Mr. Venizelo. He asked for the floor on staff and spoke about Mrs Tsatani. What should I guess? That it's a personal matter for Mrs. Chatani? Mr Mitsotakis said - and I fully agree with him - that his father, Constantine Mitsotakis, was the father of the concept of interlocutory and that he finally threw him. I fully agree, but he didn't tell us how the truce got him. To say something about Mr. Theodorakis, whom I must thank for, because he mentioned some cases that I supposedly put into the file. Mr. Theodorakis has not been properly informed. For many years now, now that I've been a retired, I don't have the step to say two things about these cases, because I've been talking about it with the judiciary editors, they knew it, but the means of interlocutory, which since then have been fighting me, have not been playing it. So let's see the cases I filed, without reminding me of what I did as prosecutors or ordering as chief. And the 'SIEMENS' and my own equipment orders are, gentlemen, and I am not saying that to outline them, but that is not what we are talking about. Our point is different. So Mr. Theodorakis said that I put a case with teachers in the file. He's been misinformed. This case was made by another D.A. and he didn't go to the file and this D.A. - I don't want to mention his name - he wasn't my friend. He was a friend of Mr. Mark's, whom Mr. Theodorakis invoked and, as far as I know, he advises him. He also referred to the intercepts and death of Tsalidis. Another huge attempt at disinformation. It is time for you, ladies and gentlemen, to listen to them today, but also to listen to them. What intercepts did I put in the file? I did the preliminary examination and criminal proceedings against anything that could mean this and the case-file went to the interrogation and the interrogation continued until the day before yesterday and now pending a decision of a court board. What kind of a lie and what kind of construction is this? After all, what did I have to hide for the intercepts? Who was the victim of the intercepts then? The then Prime Minister Constantine Karamanlis. They're looking at me as his chosen one. So I had any reason to cover the intercepts? I repeat, however, that the intercepts have not been covered, gentlemen. It was prosecuted and conducted inquiries until a precedent and now pending extradition. As for Chaliki's death, another huge lie. I'm sorry about some of them. This investigation wasn't me, it was made by another prosecutor. That's not what I'm going to mention, but that's Mr. Mark's friend. I do not mention his name for him, although he should have the emotiveness and he should have come out to say that he did the investigation and should not let six years throw mud against me. One of the issues of justice, which raises it on a major issue, is the "drugs" which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government supposedly did. In the Committee on Institutions and Transparency to talk about "builds" in the year, except that the "drugs" of those are "mutuals" and with evidence, because I know it is justice. I've known her for thirty years. If ours were 'butchers', those were 'long-haired'. Let us return to the subject on which Mrs Tsatani denounces me. In recent years, a rabies attack on me has been launched, an attack that does not aim to hit me and the government, but above all - as I say - to cover enormous responsibilities of others, who are instigating and carrying out the mafia contract, an attack full of hypocrisy and false or inaccurate elements, with methods of parastates or mafia. But, unfortunately, for her executioners and instigators, she is totally amateur, handsome and stupid. The inability to set up a decent craft makes me wonder how he managed to establish himself in our country for so many years. I conclude that it is likely that its reflexes and abilities have been reduced, because it is one step ahead of the end. In the past she set up unethical treatments, but with them she achieved her purpose. In my dentistry, if I may, I will report to you three immoral but effective preparations. If I fail to do so, I shall refer them to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, in the vast majority of the judges, prosecutors, lawyers and those who have any connection or involvement in the last few years with Greek justice are laughing at the claim that the current government and I personally are trying to intervene in the work of justice. They're all laughing because they know what happened in the past and what's happening now. In fact, in the three years before the January 2015 elections, a name has been given. Interventions, pressures and threats in the area of justice were the rule. They continued this and after the SYRIZA - ANEL government took over power. Let's not forget the transfer of prosecutors abroad and the valuable data they collected for investigations that the previous government did not just want, but was preventing. My position as Undersecretary initially and Deputy Minister then gave me the opportunity to offer my experience and knowledge...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u383	How did he do that? Who was blocking it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u384	Mr. Athanasios,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Athanasios, however, this is not the case. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u386	It's the last time I'll answer you. If you want to hear me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u387	Tell us how he was blocking it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u388	You won't tell me what to say. Your authoritarianism is all its majesty, Mr. Athanasios. Do you want to tell us what we're going to say? Mr. Athanasios, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Athanasios, I too, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u390	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u391	My position, therefore, as Secretary of State and Deputy Minister, gave me the opportunity to offer my experience and knowledge in the field of justice so that its officials can feel decent and operate without pressure and interference. In the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which we have more time to talk about, we need to talk about the pressures and threats that have been received by prosecutors, to talk about disciplinary measures which have been allegedly taken by mistake, to put the mind of the irresponsible prosecutors in the previous government and to sample their other colleagues. We also need to talk not only about Mrs Tsatani's irresponsible legal and unfounded complaint, as I will prove after a while, but also about the complaints made by other prosecutors and especially the competent, honest and unfounded prosecutor, Giannis Angelis, and about the way in which he was prevented from doing his work and neutralized. I wonder why Mrs Tsatani's complaints are more serious and reliable than the complaints made by Giannis Angelis - the Prosecutor of Appeals, too - and for which no mention is made of them, even though signs and monsters are reported in these complaints and not bits like mine, if that is also a pit. We should talk about the pressures and threats against the also honest, competent and courageous financial prosecutors Gregory Pipone and Spiros Mousakitis. We'll have to talk about the resignations of other prosecutors we've forgotten. I'll remind them, though, when I have more time. We should also talk about forcing the Prosecutor Panagiotis Karagiannis to resign from the post of Chief of the Attorney's Prosecutor's Office a few days after his election. We also need to talk not only about my meeting with Mrs Tsatani, but also about other meetings that have been requested and done, but also about others that I refused to do. We need to discuss what was discussed at these meetings, and whether what they asked me was an intervention of justice, so that the hypocrisy of those who are allegedly being cut today for the independence of justice can be seen in all its majesty. To speak of the letter from the former PASOK Member, Mr Tsironi, to the President of Parliament, calling for a witness to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. It would be very interesting to read it, but I see that time is pushing me. But we will read it and analyse it there. And that's where I'm going to wait, because some people claim to be waiting for me in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency to be cornered. I am strong enough to be able to rotate from anyone, let him be more solid. I want to catch up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u392	It's okay, you'll have some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u393	Minister, you have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u394	Say it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u395	Finally, they must be invited to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, as some people want, and Mrs Tsatani and Mrs Koutzamani and Mr Vgenopoulos. However, all the above-mentioned prosecutors and those who have asked to meet me should be called by other prosecutors who have seen the injustice against me and are rushing alone and opening their mouths now. What's going to happen is we'll see it in the next few days. Mr. Sifounakis and the Prosecutor of the Ice Arcia Mr. Pantelis must also come to explain some dark points to us. It will be of great interest, in fact, to carry out exams. In the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which will have more time, there will be many interesting facts, the role of many will be revealed and all aspects will be cleared up not only in this case, but also in other cases where interventions have been made. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Me, ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing to hide. But is it the same for everyone, especially for the instigators and perpetrators of it at my expense of manufacturing? Today justice is breathing freely and its officials feel safe and free. But few people don't like that. They've learned otherwise. That's why they dream of parentheses, SYRIZA's parentheses in the government, my parentheses in the Ministry. That's what they're moving to some people to keep them shut. But with the same dream of parentheses others live, great representatives of corruption and interlocutory. The parentheses, however, unfortunately, slow to close and their dreams prove to be deceptive and a summer's dream. So in their desperation, they decided to attack me. They started looking for evidence at my expense and, because they found nothing, they fled to the setting up of a communal, but crafty, sloppy and inadequate and ultimately stupid. I am not going to deal with the media that targeted me, unless I am then provoked. But let those in public opinion be apologised, because in my case they sacrificed the independence that the Constitution and our democracy give them on the altar of personal and economic interests involved. I will not deal with Mr Vagenopoulos either, as I have not dealt with him in the past, because I have no personal interest in his case. Besides, as he himself stated in a television interview, he asked to meet me, but I refused. The question is: Who did the prosecutors and how many times did he meet? And, finally, why does he deal with me? In my letter to the President of the Greek Parliament, which you have obviously read, I am referring in detail to exactly what happened with Mrs Tsatani. It is interesting to read it today, but we said that time is limited. For example, I will only remind you of a few points. But before that, let's see who Mrs Tsatani is. He is a wife and a mother and a candidate of New Democracy MPs. It is the prosecutor - I want you to notice this - who, in the interrogation of the Vatopedios case, did not say abstention, not only because her husband was a member of the New Democracy Parliamentary and her daughter was also a candidate for membership of the New Democracy, but also because her husband had personal differences with George Vulgarakis, who had expelled him from the NAT and Katerina Peleki, Mr. Vulgarakis, was accused of this case. After all, in the 2009 elections, if I remember correctly, Mrs Tsatani's husband was not a candidate for the New Democracy. Another reason for not being impartial, and it was not impartial for Mr Angelou, as I will be presenting below. But let us now turn to Mrs Chatani's complaints. Here, because of a question by Mr Mitsotakis, I am forced to change the structure of my speech a little and not to expose from the beginning how he started it, but to go to the question he asked me, because I tried to get into the room and attend the meeting with Greek and Cypriot prosecutors. Last - totally coincidental - Mr Psykharis's newspaper brought to the public an incident that was allegedly taking place between me and Mrs Tsatani. According to the paper, on 20-7-2015 Mrs Tsatani banned me from attending a meeting between Greek and Cypriot prosecutors and interrogators and literally threw me out. This is the disguised truth of Mr Psyracy and, possibly, of Mrs Tsatani. But the truth is quite different. In the Ministry of Justice there was indeed a meeting between Greek and Cypriot prosecutors and interrogators. Mrs Tsatani banned, for the first time in the history of similar meetings, the presence of representatives of the Ministry, including a prosecutor and not mine. Minister Nikos Paradropoulos was absent that day from the Ministry. But he wanted to know about the issues that would be discussed at this meeting and concerning transnational relations between Greece and Cyprus. That is why the Director of his political office has asked me to help deal with the involvement caused by Ms. Tsatani's refusal to participate in the Ministry's bilateral meeting and representatives. Indeed, I went to the room where Greeks and Cypriots were assembled and standing, without sitting, from the door almost, very kindly asking me to know what is going on. I was so noble and well-deserved that Mrs Tsatani was unable to imagine that I was Minister and apparently considered that I was a mere employee, working as secretary to the Ministry, and that is why she called me "master secretary". The newspaper admitted that: "I said to him: Mr. Secretary, go outside." Only he didn't tell me that. Although it was unable to invoke a provision of law - beware - which prevents the presence of a representative of the Ministry of Justice at this meeting in order to end the matter and not to continue the indebtedness and even before the guests of Cyprus, I asked the Director of the Minister's political office not to insist on and leave. There was no question of me participating in the meeting. But I repeat that there are, unfortunately, witnesses here. All present Prosecutors of Greece, Cyprus and the Director of the political office. However, I wonder why Mrs Tsatanis sooner ask me to meet me and ask me for help and advice if the incident had happened in the way he describes Mr Psykhi's 'THEMA'? I mean, he came after two months, 'cause I pushed her. But this episode creates some reasonable questions and they should be answered. Why didn't Mrs. Tsatani want the Ministry's representatives present at the Greek and Cypriot meeting on the Viseopoulos case? What was agreed between Greeks and Cyprus to investigate the criminal responsibilities of Andreas Vgenopoulos? Has this agreement been observed, in particular by Mrs Tsatani? Were there any minutes for this meeting? And, if not, why? Did Mrs. Tsatani not want witnesses and evidence of what was discussed and what was agreed between Greeks and Cypriots and, if so, why? Why did Mrs Tsatanis participate in this meeting, and not the competent prosecutor of court aids, the Prosecutor of Appeals Giannis Angelis? These questions must be answered. In addition, disciplinary investigations are carried out on this matter. At this point I must remind you that the result of the disciplinary investigation was the letter from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Cyprus to the President of the Ice Bay and some strange coincidences - which must also be investigated - which are recorded in this letter. This reminder is made, in order to protect vessels and other mistakes in their attempt to distort reality once again and to speak of persecutions supposedly. We should therefore wait for the completion of disciplinary research and everything else that is subsequently revealed. I think I can go on with my dentistry, just to say exactly what happened with Mrs Chatani, so that I don't exceed the 20-minute period.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u396	Minister, please shorten...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u397	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u398	Are you done? So you didn't exceed the 20th. You're the big ones tomorrow!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u399	Well, I'm leaving it all for my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I would generally ask that in the secondary cycle there should be more restraint on the part of all. The President has the floor, Mr Alexis Tsipras, for a second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr President. You realise that for the first time Parliament has so many parties, I think we should be forced to put before us the pre-dated debates earlier, because the seconds are going after twelve, after one night, and I certainly think those who follow us and the Members are also tired of them. I would therefore like to speak in my dentext only to respond to a number of points from Mr Mitsotakis' speech and to highlight a few issues as soon as I can. Mr Mitsotakis, your presence - allow me to appreciate - was extremely awkward. I have tabled thirteen speeches. Perhaps, yes, I have embarrassed you, because I reminded you of the 'SIEMENS' case, but it is not justified. I put forward thirteen speeches by the previous government of Samara - Venizelou in justice. And you, instead of commenting - although former Minister Athanasios tried - one of them, you have come and tabled a sketch of Arkas in the Minutes. But, you know, this debate is a very serious debate. And I would ask you to be serious, because discussing in this place about complexity and corruption is extremely easy, but putting the finger on the type of sunshine is not easy or normal. I tried to give information today and invite you to answer that. You, instead of answering the questions I put to you, dumped the ball on the platform. You did not say a word about the tachograph and the involvement, about the renegotiation of the Siemens Convention, which I invited you to go with me, for the committee of inquiry, where you might also be given a chance to open the matter. I hear that you want to tackle the big economic problem, the unbearable debt of 210 million. This committee of inquiry can help you. You didn't tell us if you agreed or disagree. You have only told us that in a normal country Parliament is not discussing justice. I hadn't thought of that. Perhaps Parliament, in your view, is, as far as justice is concerned, to dismiss criminal prosecutions and to sin against criminals. But in democracy, where power is divided, one authority must control the other. Obviously we are talking in Parliament about justice and we are making decisions on justice. The majority, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK during the previous period - the three-year period 2012-2015 - intervened with a number of decisions concerning justice with clear anti-constitutional provisions. I have heard today some of the Opposition, PASOK and Potami, provoke - in the positive sense of the term - by saying that since you have the parliamentary majority, these parliamentary interventions in justice to lift them. I accept this challenge, and indeed we will take care in the next few years, in consultation with those who agree with this thought, with a bill on justice and the fight against corruption to lift these legislative interventions, the flagrant anti-constitutional measures relating to the functioning of justice. I must, ladies and gentlemen, give a reference to the questions of justice that we are discussing. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to address myself for five minutes with Mr Mitsotakis' effort to create the image once again that, for all the sufferings that have been found here, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which has been in charge for 15 months in the governance of the place, and of course the long-term governance of the parties in the New Democracy and PASOK and, in particular, post-crisis governance, has no responsibility. Neither little nor much has Mr Mitsotakis presented a picture of social destruction, dissolution, dissolution of the economy, dismantling because of the refugee crisis, for which our Government considers it to be responsible, and not that it is a global issue, a European and global crisis, which they are discussing today throughout Europe and in all international fora. He tried to present the false, apparently, picture that everything has been destroyed in the economy in the last fifteen months. For his bad fortune, however, a few days ago in the country was the head of the OECD, Mr Guria, and he presented a report from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. This report completely contradicts the New Democracy's basic narrative and arguments that the SYRIZA and ANEL Government during the first period, which negotiated hard indeed, dissolved the country and led it to rocks. So what does this report say? This report says that between 2011 and 2014, that is, your governments have taken measures totalling EUR 63 billion, and the country has made an unprecedented fiscal adjustment, which we have not seen in a developed country in the world. As a result, the deficit was falling, says the report, by 27 billion euros, almost one to two metres by reducing the deficit, but the price was the poorening of Greek society and the loss of one quarter of our national wealth. Of course you didn't know that Mr. Guria didn't need to tell you. But somewhere else you were, Mr. Mitsotakis, at that time. Within three years you have managed to bring measures of 63 billion and destroy one quarter of national wealth, and you say that in fifteen months SYRIZA destroyed it all. And, of course, it is in the Greek people's crisis, because SYRIZA has indeed brought about an agreement, which provides for a budgetary adjustment - and we are now discussing three years, for measures which are 5-6 billion, not 62 billion, which you have taken - and this financial adjustment has had a much more smooth impact on the country's GDP. The original forecasts, says the OECD report, were to have a huge recession and, in fact, we have a stagnation, a 0.3% recession, despite the capital controls that have been imposed on vengeance. At the same time, OECD forecasts in this country that are being destroyed, in your assessment, say that in the second half of 2016 we are returning to growth again, that in 2017 we will have 2% growth. OECD estimates say unemployment from 26% last year in January has fallen to 24%. We're not celebrating for this, of course. Unemployment is huge. But this is not a picture of a country that is being destroyed, which you are creating all the time. Of course, I would also like to say something that you forget every time, you overlook, that despite the unfavourable economic conditions and the capital controls, which came as a result of a tough negotiation with the European partners, in 2015, we exceeded the target for revenues of 0,25% of GDP. The primary surplus was 0.2%. At the time of your own misuse story - so you said - when you took the measures to level and dismantle national wealth and say "success story", you had for 2014 a surplus of 1.5% and we found a surplus of 0.4%, that is, we had a gap of 2.2 billion. If there were no elections - which you always say we would have been saved if there were no elections - if there were no presidential election, what should you take? The 2.2 billion that you did not cover in 2014 and, of course, additional measures amounting to 8 billion for the period 2015-2016, as foreseen by the primary surplus targets of the previous agreement, which we changed. So who do you want to mislead and make fun of? You want to talk to numbers? We need to talk with numbers. I do not claim that the situation in Greek society is a paradise situation. I say that when the country has lost one quarter of its national wealth in four years, recovery is extremely difficult. But, on the other hand, by constantly creating a climate and a narrative, which cannot stand on the ground of reality, SYRIZA and ANEL have succeeded in dismantling the economy, while you have been doing great, I think that you cannot believe, Mr Mitsotakis. You are also telling us that, in the light of the policies we are implementing, we are constantly bringing taxes on Greek citizens. You forget what you brought. And you're constantly paraphrasing the statements of Ministers - the system of the "shooting" in all its majesty - with the complexes of interacting both in the form and in the electronic press to support you. However, you cannot overlook the fact that we are negotiating a tax bill on income taxation, a proposal which will not burden the eight out of ten citizens, while nine out of ten free professionals will not only be charged, but will be favoured, as will nine out of ten farmers. And that was one of the main reasons why in our contacts there was good ground, in our dialogue effort with them, and that is why they stopped their mobilisations. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis, I feel that the issue of the majority of you is not that much of a concern to you. You're a little allergic to the concept of a social majority. Today, in fact, you did a strange thing to do. You spoke of the 'true' social majority, and I would like you to explain what you mean. However, in democracies, it is the majority that decides, for your bad luck. And they decided three times and will decide another, if necessary, they will send you to the corner of counterpopulation in order to give the opportunity and the prospect of opening a path of hope and exit from the crisis. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would also like to mention the fact that you have described a situation of dissolution with regard to the major difficulties we face in dealing with the refugee crisis. I cannot omit the fact that you are going to Brussels and wearing another'suit', more European. And that is where you go to the European Parliament, you say that they were 'one-sided actions' - so you said - the closure of the borders, as indeed they were, and here in your statements you say 'it was the decision of the European Council', which I did not understand and signed. And not just that. Here you are the first to ask for the resignation of Mr. Muzala, while there, in your private conversations, you represent his supporter, you represent the man who does not think these matters are crucial to a resignation of a minister and you "play it" European. Other inside, other outside. But at some point, Mr Mitsotakis, because, you know, this world is small and because we live at a time when Europe plays a decisive role, you will not be able to continue for long. On the issues of interlocutory, “other words to be loved.” Your speech was a resurrected feature of headline bands in the press. Of course, last time you came here and told us a story about Napoleon, which was the central article of the newspaper "TO VIMA". Today you came here and told us that "the country is sinking into the mud and the swamps of Idomen and the government is trying to smash its political opponents". That reminds me of something. It is the current title of the newspaper 'TA NEWS'. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You also told us that "the country is unarmed, that the refugee crisis has swallowed the government, that in Idolome and Piraeus we have humanitarian bombs". That reminds me of something. It is the title of the newspaper "TO VIMA" last Sunday. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You also told us that 'This government will not be able to move on the road, we cannot leave our offices'. And something reminded me of this. It is the title of Saturday's newspaper "TAS". [[At this point, the President of the Government, Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Mitsotakis, if you have hired Mr. Psycharis for a scholar, you may be able to change the scholar, because Mr. Psycharis is very predictable and exposes you. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Of course, in order to avoid misunderstanding, you have not only referred to the headlines of this complex. Of course, you have also dealt with a series of headlines of the "yellow press" flagship of the well-known bearer, which every Sunday also has a front page on issues, in my view, with which one should either laugh or cry, I don't know. However, you mentioned very passionately the fact that we hired - she says - best friends, as if you, who had fifty two poster in your ministry, had hired people with criteria and made "opengov", ASAP. But I want to tell you something, Mr Mitsotakis, and I tell you very frankly. You know, if anyone's a cafeteria, bartender, and even garbageman, it's an honest job. Being a loot, though, and making money tax free and stealing the Greek public, this is not an honest thing, this is a dishonest job! And you didn't say a word, once again, but you covered Mr. Papastavrous, a close associate of Mr. Samaras. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You referred, of course, again to cover Mr. Samaras on the Borgians list. I don't understand what you just said to us here once again. Because I came to the House last time - as I recall you did not have an unsuccessful obligation, but you chose not to stand up, you may have some communicators who might give you this advice, your right - and I have tabled a letter from Mr Borgians himself, which has no date in 2012, but 24 February 2016, who says that he confirms and, if you like...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u402	That's the problem. You didn't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u403	Mrs. Bakoyannis, you know German better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u404	Thank God!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u405	And Mr. Mitsotakis knows, so he's read the letter. I don't know German. But, if you want, we can get here an official translator from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make the translation self-confidence. If you disprove the translation, tell us. And in any case, Mr Borgians - thank God, man is alive - we can ask him again. The world isn't lost, it's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u406	Ten times you've asked him!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u407	The official translation we have from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs says: "I can confirm the description of the then Greek consul at Düsseldorf, Mr. Plexidas, that during our repeated talks, I gave him assistance in strengthening the Greek tax administration, as well as in analysing and evaluating data from cd.", he says below that it concerned Greek taxpayers. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And then the Samara government refused...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u408	Below what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u409	Read it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u410	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u411	The Samara government has refused, by the Secretary-General of the Prime Minister, Mr. Bourras. And you come back and reproduce a front page of last Tuesday's newspaper "TAS" that was to be held and was undone, which brought...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u412	Last Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u413	Was it Monday? You know better than that, that's good! You learn them from outside, you memorize them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u414	We know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u415	What did he say? He was telling the great revelation that Mr. Plexidis revealed that there was not - says - cd. But now look at a coincidence evil. I have the fax, Mr. Plexidas' telegraph from the Consulate General of Greece in Düsseldorf to the Embassy of Berlin. What's the title? I'm reading it to you. It has the following title: "Theme: "The invitation of the Minister for Economic Affairs B. Rhineland-Westphalia to signatories in order to discuss economic crisis and cd with evidence of affidavits". I'm presenting it for the Minutes. So you don't get us crazy. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now I'm going to tell you a few things about the tank because I really don't have to get far. On the other hand, I would like to read to you, as regards what you said about my complaints concerning interventions made by the previous government, the relevant announcement of the Association of Prosecutors on 12-2014: "The Board of Governors of the Association of Prosecutors of Greece with concern observes the latest time-consuming phenomena that give the impression of incomprehensible in terms of the pace and regulatory scope of legislating, as well as executive actions that break up its perception as an institutional inconvenience with justice. “In particular,” are your prosecutors, Mr Athanasios, “promotes the tendency to legislate in a way that reasonably provokes the suspicion that they serve text purposes, in addition to safeguarding the public interest.” And I submit the press release for the minutes. That's what they said then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u416	Now what they're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u417	You tell us what they're saying now. But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to make black white at night. I would like to say a few words on the subject of blackmail. Mr. Mitsotakis, you really committed an originality today. I don't know if in this Chamber he's ever committed such a Gafa party leader, not a Chief of Staff. Why, what did you do? You denounced yourself. We told you to deposit in the Minutes not only those published in relation to the invoices of Mr Mavrikos, which you paid him - from what has been published, I have no picture -17.850, 17.850, again 17.850, 18.150 - then the price - 18.150, 18.450, 18.450, invoices from 2009 until 2010. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. You know it, of course. I told you: 'Give us more if you have and explain why you were paying this gentleman'. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the Minutes the above invoices, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And instead, what did you come to tell us? You came to tell us that we weren't paying him alone. You paid him, too. Why? Because, he says NERITT paid him. NERITT, watch out, NERITT! And you filed this evidence in the Minutes, a decision signed by who? Mr. Peter Mays, the man appointed by Mr. Fortsakis, if I'm not mistaken. The man appointed by the government of Mr. Samaras, when Mr. Macrykitritis came out on a night because he demanded Mr. Samaras not to show my speech at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. You appointed Mr. May. Of course, for four months we did not touch the ERT. We brought a law to the House. NERITT was operating with the old regime, with the old administration. He decided what he decided and we then came and built the ERT board. And you're here to bring the great proof that your people have made new contracts with Mauritius! Hey, congratulations, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have broken the funds! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But I will come here to give you what happened next, when the ERT board came out and the Major was appointed. I have here the complaints of Mauritius against Mr Papa, Mr Cretsu and Mr Major from 4-10-15 to 23-11-15. I will submit to the minutes all the publications of the newspaper 'Akropoli': ‘Existent illegality against the newspaper ‘Acropolis’ by the Major’. "Open letter to Papa and Cretso: What are the reasons why you accept these illusions Major against the newspaper "Akropli"? "Message to Pappa: We denounce the Major." ‘Let ERT stop illegalising against the newspaper ‘Acropolis’. "Here's the Major's illegality against the newspaper "The Acropolis". The Major's dirty practices. ‘Fascist the blockade of the newspaper ‘Akropoli’ by the Major’. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, look at you, we need in this life to understand that lying has short feet. And in any case, if you don't want to reveal to us the relationships of a third press with the blackmailers that your extortion had, at least, don't try to denounce us, because otherwise it turns out that we of these parasites tried to get rid of them, while you, it saves and you well want them to be close to you. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And one last thing: you said before, Mr Mitsotakis, that we are using - he says - methods of para-states. What exactly do you mean? Are you saying that the blackmailing department of the Greek Police that crossed and dismantled the extortionist circuit, including Mavricos with whom you had trusted a relationship and Mussas, who was a consultant of many of your party officials and from what I read in the newspapers, was speaking to your top executives at the last moment? You want to say that the blackmailing department of the Greek Police, which, when it has an official complaint or a lawsuit, goes and connects, in order to tie the case, does the same to illegal people who have drug trafficking, arms trafficking, blackmailers. Is that a paratrooper? Mr. Mitsotakis, I'm sorry, but instead of congratulating the Greek police, who went through such a case, just because you have guilt, you talk about para-state. I'm so sorry, Mr. Mitsotakis. I'm asking you to withdraw. Because there is no parastate when a network and a ring of blackmailers are dismantled, but when cases like this are covered. But no more this cover-up, Mr. Mitsotakis. We are determined to put an end to the cover and to show them as deep as they are, to reach the knife in the bone, to be able to breathe the Greek society. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'm hanging up. Mr. Mitsotakis, at the end of your speech you made a closure spectacular and said what some were expecting with great anxiety. For two months now, you have been pushing you out at last and saying 'elections','resign, Mr Tsipras'. And you did it. I congratulate you on that. [[Laughers from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mr Mitsotakis, when you go abroad - again, you assure the partners that 'you know, I don't rush, the country has three elections, it doesn't need a fourth'. But some people are pushing you to ask for elections. I will not speak out loudly that we are at a critical moment just before the negotiation, the evaluation. Oh, no. I'll just tell you, Mr. Mitsotakis, that whoever is raped is stumbling. Didn't you get three election campaigns lost by your resignation? Are you ready to lose four? But I think that's not your problem. Your problem is the agony of someone on your side and especially the great anxiety of the interlocutory system who sees that the cord is tightening up and that what we said we meant and we will do so and we will make the tender for the permits and will become the examination for the loans and those who have outlawed will have the consequences of the law. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So take again, Mr Mitsotakis - to his maximum crescendo - the scenario of the thousands of left parentheses in order, obviously, to create a climate, possibly to intimidate some judges, some civil servants who honour their oath. Listen to something: It's a thousand times the play. He played in the first half of the year, played again in the referendum, again in the elections. It's a nice story of parentheses, but the dragon died. The dragon became a pet and even a pet that doesn't even nibble. Forget it, then. This government has a term of four years, because it has the majority of the House and the majority of society to support it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At the end of the four-year period we will all be judged, but after we have taken the country out of the crisis, with society upright and with the people finally seeing that this country has justice and justice, to breathe with justice. So forget about the elections and see if you lose these elections at the end of the four-year period and you are the youngest party leader leaving earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u418	Thank you. The Chief of Staff and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr President. I assume, Mr Tsipras, that after your regular visits to Mr. Psyharis, you have provided a free subscription to the 'BIMA' and to the 'SEA', because you are studying them very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u420	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u421	I understand, Mr Tsipras, that you have been particularly disturbed by the Arkas sketch, which I have shown, because this sketch has illustrated the reality of today's debate, that is to say, your attempt to transfer the debate from the real core of the problem, which is the situation facing the country, to the so-called problem of corruption and interlocutory. But you have unfortunately not succeeded, because you know very well that Greek citizens know what the situation is in the country today. As much as you are trying to look at her, the reality is unfortunately inconsistent, Mr. Tsipras, and the reality in the refugee and reality in the real economy. You referred to your discussions with Mr Guria. You soon discovered him. I do not want to remember what you were saying about the OECD when we started reforms that the OECD was introducing at the time and you were going to the bars to condemn them as neoliberal. But Mr. Guria also became your favorite interlocutor now, after Mrs. Merkel. But there is one problem, Mr Tsipras, and the problem is very simple. All polls - don't worry, I won't mention the intention of voting - show a simple reality: Nine out of ten Greeks believe that the country is going in the wrong direction. Are all these people wrong? Are these polls also balls? Did it have to do it, Mr. Tsipras? So the truth is very different. You've done a lot of damage to the country in the past 15 months. The truth, too, is that if elections had not been held, of course the country would have been orbited and of course we would have escaped the third memorandum. But let us assume, Mr Tsipras, that we disagree with the interpretation that we give of the facts of your Government these fifteen months and especially the facts of your Government from January 2015 until September 2015. I propose to you, Mr Tsipras, an honest agreement, which I invite you to accept now: we shall vote on the proposal that you have tabled to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate loans to the parties. You will then vote on the proposal for a committee of inquiry, which we are preparing to investigate the reasons for the imposition of bank holidays and capital restrictions, the signature of the third memorandum and the need for a new recapitalisation of credit institutions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So can we agree, Mr Tsipras, that we shall be setting up these two committees of inquiry? We will support yours, and you will support ours, to really find out what happened this semester. To ask Mr Varoufakis to come and talk about whether there really was 'plan B' or 'plan x', as he said. So here's Rhodes, Mr. Tsipras! Let us agree to the setting-up of both committees of inquiry. I will wait with great interest for your answer. I understand the great need you have to defend executives, which, of course, have been loyal to you throughout this party route, which you have travelled, such as Mr Caranikas. Indeed, no job is a shame. The problem is another, Mr Tsipras. You didn't hire Mr. Karanika to make coffee, hired him to the Strategic Planning Secretariat. That's the reality! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The question is clear. He was qualified to respond to this job or was just a party facilitation to a loyal party soldier, who...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u422	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u423	...in some way it had to be taken care of, Mr. Tsipras. The career is cholera, Mr. Karanicas told us between the other nice ones, which he has told us. That's the reality, Mr. Tsipras. These people you choose. You choose them without any criteria, with only interest in taking care of friends and friends. You have again referred to the case of Mr Mauritius and to the relations he may have had with New Democracy in the past. But I have a question for you, Mr Tsipras. I remember well Mr. Mavrikos commentator on state television, invited after the debate between Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Maymarakis? Do I remember it well? Or don't I remember well? So please, Mr. Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u424	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u425	When you talk about relations - will you expect to hear them all - third-party, Mr Tsipras, with suspicious journalists, who may have done dirty jobs in the past, can you please explain to me very much the first-type relationship of Mr Christoforides' recruitment by Mrs Gerovalis? [[Noise in the Chamber from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Let me remind you who Mr. Christoforides is. He is the editor of the newspaper 'THONI'. You can hear it again, because as you have nice cover, so I have here: "September 20th - say - to the fuck." They have a tick on Adonai, Vangelis Meimarakis and Sofia Vultesis. "No diligence, Memorial, Shoeble, Samara. Where will you be hiding tomorrow morning?" That's what Mr. Christoforides was publishing! And of course you rushed to reward him with an intake to Mrs. Gerovasil's office. Of course, Mr. Christoforides! He's worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u426	Only he's not in jail!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u427	Please, be quiet, colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u428	Look at you, Mr. Christoforides and Mr. "THONI", that's right, Mr. Theodorakis said, all of a sudden...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u429	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u430	Isn't he a publisher in fifty or two?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u431	You'll hear them again because it's true, you know. The truth sometimes does not hurt to repeat. Why suddenly this newspaper, which does not sell any at all, began taking a series of ads from all the major CECE? I imagine it was too high a traffic! That's the logical explanation. But should I tell you something? That's the least. I am more concerned with the way in which the ECIs, which are under your control, gave advertisements, but the way in which all these ECIs invested at an excessively high price in the Attica Bank. This is a much more important issue, Mr Tsipras, and to which you will be invited to reply. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On issues of interlocutory and parastate. Mr. Tsipras, I didn't blame you for doing her job. You didn't understand what I told you. I accused you of talking, which is confidential and part of a case-file, by magic, selectively, finding their place, leaking into a form and then the Government's representative, Mr Gerovasili, rushing to embrace them. That's the para-state, Mr. Tsipras - you've been in trouble, not that the police are doing their job. I think you're a little messed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u432	And you tell Mrs. Gerovali? It's the paperwork.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u433	The paper published! Who left them to leak, though, Mr. Tsipras?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u434	We don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u435	Oh, we don't know that! Let me tell you one more thing, now that I remembered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u436	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u437	I remember there were three in this blackmailing company. The third, although I don't remember his name, I remember being a close partner of yours. I didn't see his own conversations leak. I imagine there are his own conversations. That's why I blame you, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u438	Who was my close associate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u439	Who was Tsipra's close associate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u440	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u441	Excuse me, but you won't say inaccurate here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u442	Sit down! I'm not taking a break.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u443	You won't say inaccurate. You'll call back!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u444	Sit down! You'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u445	You'll call back!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u446	I'm not withdrawing anything at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u447	Who's my close associate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u448	I understand your irritation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u449	Repeat, withdraw! I won't allow you to!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u450	Sit down, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u451	Who was my close associate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u452	Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u453	You're a liar if you don't say the name! You're irresponsible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u454	Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u455	Rescind immediately!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u456	You'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u457	Please stop below.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u458	Aren't you ashamed to say he was my partner?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u459	You're a muslimist!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u460	Well, that's the parastate you're setting up, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Well, for the record...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u461	You're irresponsible! You're a little bit!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u462	We saw that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u463	Stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u464	I understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u465	Will you stop now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u466	Mr President, I expect you to enforce the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u467	Excuse me, two o'clock in the morning, where do you get that appetite? Stop! Be quiet. It's two o'clock and we still have a long time ahead of us. Come on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u468	Of course, Mr Tsipras, you did not say anything about the tampering, Mr. Tsipras. You gave no answer. That's what the Greek people expected to hear. As no substantial response has been given by the Ministers responsible for all the things we have denounced about interventions in justice. Mr. Papagelopoulos said he was talking to Mrs. Tsatani. We are therefore waiting for Mrs Tsatanis and Mr Papaggiopoulou in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, to see what the problem is. That is what you will tell me again: 'What is the problem?' But don't you know the basics of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen? Don't you know the independence of justice? Is all this foreign to you? Mr Papagelopoulos, at least, should have known these issues. Well, we'll come to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. They will all respond and there it will be seen whether there were any real interventions in justice, Mr Tsipras, and how the Ministry operates, of which the Minister himself claims to be non-interventional. And indeed it is, but that is why he has a Deputy to do this job. Of course, they are not absent from other legislation, because I would remind you that the Minister's rich legislative work includes his first legislative initiative, which was the attempt to release Savvas Xiros and to meet all the demands of the terrorists. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] No, sir, you're not from the Justice Department. Well, with Mr. Kammenos, I don't want to be very concerned about it. I had a hard time following his reasoning. But I would just like him to tell me his opinion, his thought, on an interesting text, published today, which many SYRIZA officials sign, on the issue of the name of Skopje. This text reads as follows: 'The signatories and signatories remind us of the obvious. There is no national interest at stake if the neighbouring country is allowed to maintain its constitutional name.’ That's what the text says. Who sign it among many others? Mr. Karanikas, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mrs. Christodoulopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u469	Shame on you! It's a disgrace to that thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u470	Quiet! Come on, be quiet. Stop screaming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u471	I am very interested to know whether this is the official position of the government, or whether the national line, which has been drawn up in Bucharest, and which remains today, Mr Tsipras, is the Greek Government's national position on this issue. I'm closing, Mr. President. I understand, Mr. Tsipras, your anxiety ahead of reality. I told you very clearly to leave, to resign, because you cannot raise the burden of the country's governance. If you dare, Mr. Tsipras, take the country to the elections and then we will see whether the fourth time was lucky, such as the fourth meeting with Mr. Psykras! You dare take the country to elections, let's see what's going to happen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u472	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u473	Mr President, I apologise for my explosion before. However, I would like to make a brief statement, because I have to do so. Mr. Mitsotakis has every right not to answer the evidence I submitted to him about his party's relations with the blackmailers' circuit. But he has no right to the Step of the House to slander the Prime Minister of the country, saying he has relations and that he was my close associate, one of the three who were arrested on the charges of extortion. I therefore ask Mr Mitsotakis to withdraw, otherwise he will be a common slander, Mr President, and that is what I have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u474	I'm not rescinding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u475	From what they've seen, there's no revocation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u476	Will you withdraw?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u478	Mr. Famelle, this is me. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u479	What's this? Is this thing a democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u480	Come on, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u481	Mercy! What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u482	Good. We solved the matter. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Javarra, Mr. Ausgeakis, do you think you're not listening? Please. Do not you, when the Bureau is intervening. Mr. Javarra, please very much. Mr. Femello and I talked to each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u483	Selectively intervening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u484	Not selective.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u485	When the president was interrupted, you were saying nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u486	I kept saying. You're wrong, Mr. Karaoglu. See specifically if there were no interventions on all sides. You're not right, and it's both the time. Mr. Michaloliacos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u487	Yeah, go away. Come on, out quickly!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u488	Please sit down, Mrs. Zaroulia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u489	Respect for the democracy of the democrats!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u490	You'll start when it gets quiet. Here, Mr. Michaloliaco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u491	Mr President, I shall begin with one comment: the fact that the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, has submitted an invoice to NERIT, which he charged the government, while signed by their own people, shows that they have a very serious problem. And if we remember Nikos Alephanto, they've taken a lot of "palto" and I don't see them going too far ahead. Today, of course, the issue was justice and I spoke in detail about the speeches made in our case, but I did not hear a word from the Prime Minister, neither about the Baltaku video and the terrible revelations, nor about the audio document, with which the Prime Minister asked for the protection of MPs, nor a word. So so much, are you afraid of being described as friends of the 'bad nationalists', 'bad fascists'? Isn't justice above all this? In order to understand the method of manipulation followed, I will just say one thing. On 6 May 2012, twenty-one MP was elected. On 17 July eighteen were elected. Suddenly justice decides that all eighteen members of July are directors of the criminal organisation, but the three who have not been elected are not. In addition, these eighteen MPs have come out on a cross-cutting basis, i.e. elected voters in Macedonia, in the Peloponnese, in Central Greece, in order to be directors of a criminal organisation. The most outrageous is that one of the eighteen indictees was not elected a MP, but came after the resignation of a MP and yet he is also accused of being the director of a criminal organisation. The fraud, which was also used as an insanity, is clearly seen in the case of Pakistani killers, who have included in the case of Golden Dawn, who, when asked to apologise as members of a criminal organization, had already been sentenced to life in prison. Prosecutor Isidor Doyakos suggested that they should not be confiscated because they cannot have anything to do with the Golden Dawn because, first, the event was random and, second, there was nothing to do with it. In his final proposal, he changes everything and says that because one's home found a baseball bat and because at the sports store of Panagiotaros there were baseball bats, they should be charged as well. There have been signs and monsters, which will, of course, emerge during the trial. What, however, is political intervention? The Prime Minister said earlier about some laws that passed with a hundred forty - four votes. Why a hundred forty-four? Because then the prison prosecutor has forbidden us to come here to the House to participate in our parliamentary work, who are confiscated, on the grounds that it is not our main job. If, in other words, we did bolt drainage and it was our main profession or we were plumbers, then we could be licensed. The fact that we are parliamentarians and we would come to vote on a bill could not be allowed. Oh, of the miracle, the government's changing. It drops the previous regime and suddenly the same prison prosecutor decides that we should come to Parliament. What else does this prove, apart from the fact that there was a police officer and a political intervention? Of course, the bills, which came with particular purpose, were interventions in justice and even the most barbaric in the legislative work and even some unconstitutional clear and photographic photographs. For when a law is passed that bank officials are exempted from the criminal responsibilities for the maritime loans of the parties, then what else is that from interference with justice? Mr Mitsotakis spoke for the second time, but not a word about Papastavros. Nor a word, too, about how Papastavrou found the 3,5m euros fine. Full coverage. I would also like to say - and the Minister referred to this - that prohibited media should be used on issues of major public interest. Alas! An entire people are dying, miserable, and are we going to check if it is legal about the way the Borgians list is legal? Of course we must use these facts and I am afraid you are late. To understand, too, how some things work, Mr. Mitsotakis referred to the complexion and referred to the Karamanlis period with the law on key shareholders, which would put an end to the complexion. He did not, however, say that many factors in the New Democracy did not vote for this law and stood on the side of the interlocutory. It is truly worrying for the fans of the New Democracy that they are currently counting on the same line as the Labraki band, which reminds us that they were not always called "TA NEWS" and "TO VIMA", but they were called "ATHENAICA NEWS" and "ELEVER VIMA". Do you know why they changed title? Because by a law it was decided that the newspapers, who cooperated with the conqueror, as well as the "THEA" and "THE VIMA" - then "ATHENAICA NEW" and "FOREIGN VIMA" with the conqueror - should be closed after liberation. The outrageousness of the whole political process against the Golden Dawn with this famous criminal organization also arises from another fact. The accused are sixty-nine, but on the stand sixty-eight were referred to. One of them died. That one who died was named Bolet. The interrogator called him to apologize as a member of the Nazi criminal organization, as it is called, Golden Dawn. Except they took a certificate from the rabbi. He was a Jewish man, who died in the meantime. They have come to such an insanity. He testified to them and said: “Yes, I like, I am a fan of the Golden Dawn. I don't belong to any raid battalion. There are no such things." Points and monsters, but a word on this matter! I should like to say at this point that I am sure that, after all, justice will shine and remember some words of sacred Augustine, who said that 'if justice is not here, what else is political power from organised robbery'? Finally, you are due to answer to Mr Plumb. He cannot be a potential blackmailer and speak of the Himalayan cat. Send the defendant or answer. You cannot let this thing hang. Because, of course, interventions in the area of justice on the part of the New Democracy were indeed monstrous, monstrous, but today's thinking is that everything is going well in this place. Today, if you don't know it, four policemen were ruthlessly beaten in Idomen and stoned, because they went to check on a woman of a non-governmental organization. A hell has been created. You have a great responsibility for this and take your measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u492	Thank you. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Independence of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotten Genres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u493	Mr President, I will be extremely brief. One word is today's sitting: disappointment. Seven hours for nothing, seven hours lost. We have had an opportunity today to reach agreement at least on the question of justice, transparency and the fight against corruption. We had an opportunity to shape all these hours, all the parties in this House, a framework of changes and improvements, at least to speed up justice, so that Greek citizens feel that there is a rule of law in that country. The opportunity, unfortunately, has been lost once again. We really wonder why this debate took place? The answer is one: to set up a setting, a dividing and polarizing performance. It is precisely this polarization, which, for six years now, has led Greece further and deeper into the crisis. For the substance of the debate, we have not heard a single proposal at all. Only we have come here with concrete proposals. And it was like nobody heard anything. What did we hear from the people in charge? One admitted that it was lacking in interventions, that is, interventions were made by someone else. Of course, he had to be present in the defence of the institution. The other admitted that he was present, but that he was a beating. All the rest will be discussed in committee. I wonder why we didn't expect this committee after all. The whole story was to come here today to rebuild a disgusting bloc? The whole story happened today just to forget about the lost paradise that Mr. Tsipras promised, but can't he deliver? We have heard that the Prime Minister - and we have agreed with him, we will support him - wants to look into the loans of parties and instruments. And the Chief of Officer County wants to investigate the capital controls, the memorandum, the recapitalisation of the banks. But then why do you not agree, since January in our proposal, to look at the economic issues for the entire period when the country is in the euro? What are you afraid of? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I understand why Mr Mitsotakis does not want to investigate the period 2004-2009 and the responsibilities of the New Democracy for derailing the country's finances. But, Mr. Tsipras, why are you afraid to investigate this period? Why don't you finally consent?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u494	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u495	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u496	One is the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Today he tried to build a small bipartisan once again. This story does not help the country and Greek citizens understand it and they will respond. Because both of them, SYRIZA and New Democracy, are ultimately harming national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u497	Thank you very much, Mrs. Genemas. The speech is given by the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u498	It was confirmed once again that today's debate was a two-party fight for the channels, for the narrow party audience, a fight that suits both SYRIZA and New Democracy around things known and thousands of them, to hide what is at stake in these days, in relation to the evaluation, the new measures and the refugee. Because both of you and the others have not cultivated expectations of supposedly great revelations, all that is finally revealed is that you both serve the same policy, the same direction, the same reactionary framework, in total in justice more specifically, the same rotten system in the final analysis, which gives rise to and reproduces corruption. The Code of Civil Procedure together you voted for him, which specifically adapts the law of forced execution of auctions and seizures in favour of groups to the detriment of the people. Charismatic regulations in favour of entrepreneurs and you both have voted to settle tax and customs infringements, when the tax is even after EUR 1 for workers. You both not only maintained intact, but you strengthened the framework that criminalises popular mobilisation. Recently, on SYRIZA, we had an order from the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow for persecution against farmers with the mobilisations, just as in the past with the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. As for the various committees of inquiry, which you have all agreed on today, we have also seen the fate of the previous ones. If you don't want to solve a problem, then set up a committee of inquiry. That's the recipe, well known, to finally stay and all refer to the bells! You're talking about corrupt political and state officials, but you're hiding the great corruptant, the monopolistic groups, the capital. Since you have all become Guria's fans in here - we were hearing Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis - to remind you that the large OECD survey in 2014, which studied four hundred and seven large state officials' cases in forty states confirmed that mainly those who bribes are the major groups to increase their profits and their market shares. It showed that 5.7% of cases concerned mismatches, commissions, 'loves' to ensure public procurement. In the cases examined, the average hatred exceeded 13 million dollars and concerned the United States of America, Germany, Sweden and Italy, in other words, as many countries as a model and assemble them. The United States and Switzerland are in the first positions of countries that are refugee for large tax refugees. In fact, these countries refuse to participate in the global system of exchanges of information for bank customers, in accordance with OECD standards. They defend tax and banking secrets with nails and teeth. More generally it is estimated that over 20 trillion private wealth dollars are hidden in tax havens and are not taxed at all. Usually, then, when you say corruption, you mean personal or collective enrichment resulting from a violation of the law, which you yourself have voted on. In the category of corruption and corruption you do not even incorporate the enrichment resulting from the application of unfair, disgusting laws for the people. Ladies and gentlemen, because a lot of discussion is taking place, we are following the development of the case of the prosecutor's case, Mrs Tsatanis, and the complaints of disciplinary control, etc. We have no objections that are being raised in this House or which will be debated much more in committee to reveal what is happening, because we do not have any illusions that in the end the whole truth and reality and what happened under the table and behind the scene will be revealed. A number of basic points which we would like to make first of all in relation to the general debate that is being held on the intervention of the executive in independent - supposedly - of justice, of manipulation, etc.In our opinion, justice has never been, nor will it be, independent of the governments concerned, nor in fact, nor in procedural terms. In fact, because justice is obliged to apply, to interpret the laws decided by the executive and adopted in Parliament, procedurally because the leadership of justice is appointed by the respective government, but also because justice is an institution of each state and plays its own role within the framework of the single division of powers of that State, and ultimately always aims to enforce the 'right' - within introductory terms for us - of the ruling class which also has real power. Since the case at issue in the whole - on the occasion of which this whole debate is taking place - is the non-criminal persecution of Vegeopoulos by the prosecutors for the offence of corruption, there is a systematic effort to convince us - to convince the Greek people rather - that it is possible that this rotten system is supposed to become an honest, fairer, worker-friendly system, that they can allegedly incur huge funds into the state funds if the corruption and the conflict of the great interests with the State is combated. Of course, our party does not underestimate the matter. That is why it has proposed a series of measures that can reduce these phenomena, as we say again - the denomination of shares, the total abolition of business secrets and others, but no government has accepted, nor has today's left government. Experience has confirmed that in a society, which runs the risk of the interests of the few, which interact and cooperate legally with the state, i.e. above the table, it is legitimate to develop their trade and beneath the table, transactions involving all the institutions of the state and government, administration, parliament, justice and so on. Nor should it escape from our attention that in the name of anti-corruption and conflict there has been a number of measures that can be generalised and turned against popular freedoms, such as large-scale surveillance, removal of secrets from communications, physical and home investigations, without respecting nor these minimum guarantees of legality. Ladies and gentlemen, for the time being we will say that we do not tolerate hypocrisy in matters of political morality, because morality is related to the content of politics and what party is dependent on big businessmen, which is basically seen and proved not by the parapolitical remarks of the various "yellow" or other brochures, but by what decisions it takes, for which business groups, what bills it brings, that is, in Parliament, who are strengthening these bills. It seems, in other words, that it is demonstrated through its whole attitude, positions and political action both within and outside Parliament. The JRC in a clear, responsible and arguments way each time it votes in the House, says its views. We have made specific proposals that we have presented. They've been filed in the Minutes of the House. They are proposals for legislation both for the functioning of the House and for parliamentary salaries and pensions, for state funding. To limit, to reduce, to abolish all this is not the problem. We can vote for everything here and now. However, in what the Greek people will not be ridiculed, as various populists do in here, to steal just a few votes in the elections, it is to say that for the economic crisis, for example, the mess that has arrived in our country is allegedly the fault of the subsidies to the parties, the misery of corruption. The crisis has other basic causes. It's a system crisis. We insist on that. And the state contribution to the crisis - to say this - is mainly official benefits and official gifts to entrepreneurs and various groups. We will not fall into the trap of mocking the people who are suffering - and it may be that today the drowned person from his hair is caught - and we are supposed to tell him that this political system is being resurrected and moralised, if some subsidies are abolished to parties or to the House, because it can be abolished, but they may then well put the entrepreneurs to finance the parties, and that is also considered moral, since their dependence will also have the bosom of the law. From the international political stage there are many examples of where they were targeting or better where all the alleged anti-corruption operations eventually led, like today. The same aim is for occasional decisions of justice in this respect. Sometimes, in fact, these sentences have led to extensive reclassifications in the urban scene, typical of the "Cathedral hands" operation in Italy, in the 1990s, against a series of bourgeois politicians, leading the president of the Socialist Party at the time, Betino Kraxi, and the Christian Democrats, also Prime Minister, Andreotti. The reconstructs within and between these parties, however, in no case have they been rooted out - nor did they - of these phenomena. From this reclassification of the political scene, as we all remember, Berlusconi's empire flew to follow it after or in the future. Behind such judicial interventions, the need to maintain certain advances of democracy for the political system, as well as the need for the state to act as a body to serve the general interests of the bourgeoisie and not, of course, as a committee to serve certain entrepreneurs at the expense of others. Workers, officials, farmers, professionals, young people and young people in our country must now organise their struggle, prepare their new mass pan-Hellenic general strikes and other mobilisations. Turn the back on the pollen diapers, set again with all the old known materials and fake dilemmas of the past ever bicommunism. To hear the truth the Communist Party of Greece tells them. To hear the voice of their hearts. To listen to the voice of their real interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u499	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. Mr. Theodorakis will not answer. The President of the Group of Independent Greeks and Minister for National Defence Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u500	I said earlier to Mr Mitsotakis, I asked him to avoid talking to me, because I know the space for twenty-three years. So he asked me if I agree with the text of some SYRIZA officials in relation to the name of Macedonia. Of course I don't agree. There is a decision by the President of the Republic on the Council of Political Heads. The decision taken is binding on all of us. But I ask Mr Mitsotakis: what was the first decision he made when he took over the presidency of his party? The position of Miltiadis Varvitsiotis at the time, Mr. Nikos Georgiadis. Mr. Nikos Georgiadis has the adventure with the paedophilia that we all know about from the news. And, of course, he ripped him out as soon as he reconstructed the story. However, since I keep the files in the past, I will ask Mr Mitsotakis a question now: Mr Mitsotakis, you do not know that in 2005 we deleted Mr. Nikos Georgiadis, MP Kirkras, because then as a Member in his statements at the radio station 'ALFA 98.9', he decided that Macedonia's sacred name is a bull and he must be assigned to the Skopje? I read his statements, they are what Mr Georgiadis said then, Mr Mitsotakis' chosen one: 'We cannot decide what we will call the next country, no matter how much we do not like it. I, too, have a blatant disgrace to be called Macedonia, but it is not possible to demand that I decide what will be called the next country. On the contrary, we are losing huge opportunities for diplomatic intervention and influence because we are insisting on this, in my view, crap." Burda is the name of Macedonia, according to his chosen Mr. Mitsotakis in political planning. I have made it clear with the Prime Minister and with the SYRIZA Members that we are with the government at the moment. It's an honorable place. Nobody came out of the Independent Greeks to say such a thing. Mr. Mitsotakis, however, deleted in 2005, Mr. Nikos Georgiadis and, while he also knew the history of paedophilia, which emerged afterward, appointed him a secretary of the Political Planning. I ask you, Mr. Mitsotakis, didn't you know that? Or is this a statement, therefore, that in ten years we will have forgotten the name of Macedonia?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u501	There was no decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u502	Wasn't there a decision to go to political planning?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u504	Have you read the resignation Varvichiotis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u505	Well, that's cleared up. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u506	Mr Varvitsiotis resigned because he called for it and was appointed Secretary of the Political Planning. But didn't you see him make statements? Are you going to drive us crazy now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u507	There's no decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u508	Wasn't the Secretary of the Political Design appointed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u509	It was Yannis Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u510	Mr. Teddy, ask him what he's taken to Corfu with this guy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u511	You said he was appointed. There is no President-in-Office's decision like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u512	It was a ghost!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u513	Please, the explanations have been given. Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u514	He was one of those who roamed the Congregation without being appointed. If he didn't nominate him, how did he leave him after? I mean, we're going crazy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u515	Come on, Mr President, this is the time when these are left unanswered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u516	I'm going on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u517	He's not a minister, is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u518	He'll never be Minister. I'm scared of you either. You as a rocket, Mr. Musas says, know of such things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u519	Mr. Cammene, I'm not dealing with you. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u520	He was your best friend. You've been talking so many times, Mr. Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u521	Mr. Cammene, I'm not dealing with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u522	Mr. Venizelos is away, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u523	Please, Mr President, refer to the whole Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u524	I wanted to ask this: the black fund of PASOK with the 15 million cash what finally happened? Because I see the auditors have entered PASOK, which has called them - and I am sure she has invited them - by Mrs Générale. What I have said in private to Mrs. Genemas, and I say it publicly, is that if she gets rid of Mr. Venizelos and of all these old executives, I wish we could talk together and see if this PASOK doesn't cover the old PASOK...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u525	Venizelos called them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u526	Venizelos wanted the clearance. Why didn't he refer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u527	Venizelos called the auditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u528	So Venizelos must refer Papandreou for the 116 million without proof and the 15 million black cash they found. Well, that's good to know. Be well! I'm with you. I agree with you. [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] One hundred and sixteen million black in PASOK without proof and fifteen million cash. You're a Leventis Heraklion, and you say it directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u529	Please stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u530	That's what Mrs. Genemata should do, instead of getting Mr. Venizelo and justifying him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u531	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Mr. Kegeroglu clarified what we all know in this Chamber. Mr Kammenos is older than us, and he knows that in the previous day, under the presidency of Mr Venizelos, the audit firms were invited and the findings were made. The use will perhaps be made by the President-in-Office. That's what Mr. Kammenos was talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u532	However, since Mr Venizelos insists here, and indeed with designations, which are on the first pages of the Internet, I will say that the Prime Minister has read thirteen points of intervention. So you will allow me to remind you of Mr Venizelos' amazing parliamentary and legislative work. Work one, the man who acquitted Ace. Mr Venizelos in DRUMILAN exam and TOR M1 broke his clothes for the innocence of Chochazopoulou. I read from the Minutes of the House: "There is no evidence of a possible criminal offence by Mr. Tsohatzopoulos and Mr Papantoniou, who have been insulted for months and have been unjustly smashed." He's inside, waiting for the other one! Second, it changes the Criminal Code with five words. Second intervention. Article 242 of the Criminal Code concerning the offence of false attestation and Article 216 relating to forgery changed the conditions under which the law was a felony. He added, in other words, to what he predicted to be "a violation of 10 years of imprisonment" the words "if the damage is not more than 25 million". Otherwise, the offence is a crime. Number three. The Minister of “THE MALL” is Evangelos Venizelos who tables Law 3207/2003 on Olympic Preparation with which he legalises his arbitrary “THE MALL”. Next article. Law on non-responsibility of Ministers. Article 86 of the Constitution for which Implementing Law 3126/2003 was adopted - Venizelos Minister - together with a decree of 1800. He confirmed it. It establishes the impunity and practical impunity of the ministers. I'm on it. Shipowners' exemption. Eighty-six shipowner tax exemptions brought them by Mr Venizelos with Law No.27/1975, which changes with Article 107 and provides for eighty-six tax exemptions. Bastard. Remember Batman? Well, shitty shit. His support was sealed in February 1999, when the Minister of Culture took the golden key to the "Acropolis" Hotel from the President's hands to the PAOK Giorgos Batatoudi. Batatoudis manages to sell the hotel to the Ministry of Culture at a critical business stage. The agreement, as described, with Venizelos was closed at the impressively profitable price of EUR 4.5 billion, of which 1.8 billion was made as an advance. To date this building is unused. Next. It starts intervention in the ODP with the famous 50m euros lost by the public for the new groups. ‘FIX’, ‘LLATIN’, April 2003. Evangelos Venizelos from the position of Minister of Culture signed ministerial decisions which declassify from historical conservation monuments two monuments of Thessaloniki, "FIX" and "OLALATINI". Laws for media barons. He's the creator of the law on broadcasting, by n. In addition, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for a period of two years from 1 January 1995 to 31 December 1995. Actually, he made the canals unconscious. In the same law, Mr Venizelos provides for media shop to ensure advertising at a fee of up to 9.9% of the turnover. From the media shops all black money was distributed. Next Venizelos Law. The law of the squares. For non-domestic immovable property and with an area of structured electrode surface over a thousand square metres, the coefficient of determination of the end of table A is calculated by a 30% reduction for more than a thousand squares of both squares of the real estate. Why is he doing this? For the "REGENCY CASINO" of Thessaloniki, "SKAI", "PEGASOS", tyres "MICHELLIN", "MALL", "LAMDA ESTATE", "PORTO CARRAS", "MEDIA MARKT", "ATITIC ROO", Doll and for the house of Thodoros Angelopoulos. We're moving on to the submarines.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u533	Mr President, can you speed up? Especially the subject of submarines is exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u534	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is late, it is only three or twenty in the House, but to understand, especially, small and medium-sized businessmen and bank borrowers how they dealt with the information pimps. Karamanlis told them pimps then. But unfortunately those with whom he was going to cooperate had already gone to Congress without the pimps asking them. He was unable to do what he announced. And it was the intention of Kostas Karamanlis' true intention. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 The Athens Peace Court to judge the case of Alpha Bank, the National Bank and the Piraeus Bank against the Labraki Journals Agency commits one million euros and gives a bond loan of 96.817.889 euros of six semi-terrestrial spaces in Kallithea. The older one's 42.75 squares. First clue. Second element. It gives a real estate in Nea Raidestos, the Municipality of Thessaloniki, in Thermi, an area of square meters, of zero value, and thirdly, a property in Sfakia, which includes sixty-five tonsils and two hundred-seven olive trees. How much does Mr. Psilaris take in the Doll by decision of the court of pacifism? It takes 96-97m euros. This decision is not enough - to understand the small and medium-sized professionals who deprive them of the five grand - but returns in 2015 and exactly with the same six semi-globes, the tonsils, the two-seven olives and the property in Thermi, again with these three banks and the Alpha Bank London Bank Ltd., for a million other 60 million. In other words, it takes almost 150 million plus the old loan, guaranteeing six semi-government of twenty-seven to forty squares of Thermi and the almond. For historical reasons, I'm telling you that tonsilone was the one that the late Nikos Kakaunakis gave. Lambrakis had given him, he gave him to Psychides in favor of the Doll. That is the truth, these pimps come today to cover these pimps too, we, ladies and gentlemen, come with this government to deal with. When the small and medium-sized professional is being persecuted for a thousand euros and taken home, these guys get 150 million euros, where are they? Of course they left for the outside. When we control them today and the current government comes and opens the Lagard lists, it opens the lists that come from Germany, they tell us we're being published. The same fate is Mr. Papastaurou. All cases that have been set up in recent years have been scheduled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u535	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u536	I shall conclude, Mr President, immediately, in a minute or so. Do you remember the case of 'KAVAL OIL' when we were here, in the House, and we were fighting for 'KAVAL OIL' and for the amendment 'KAVAL OIL'? Do you know who the "CAR OIL" was given? "KAVALA OIL" was given to today's President, Mr Matthew King. I'm looking to find Matthew King online in the Official Journal of the Government - 3092 card number - and I see that Mr. Matthew King in 2003 makes a joint company with Mr. Papastavrou. In 2013, Samaras becomes Prime Minister, Papastavrou becomes the object of the New Democracy and PASOK and brings his partner from "CAPITAL CONNECT COMPANY AND gives him "KAVAL OIL" with all the deposits of PRINOU - 1, all the deposits of PRINOU - 2, all the deposits of "Ephillon". Which other companies? At the "XISA" company along with Mr. Metaxas, the Lagard list, who ran away with 80-90 million and, of course, with relatives of political persons, who instead of coming here and apologize, also ask for the change. If, then, they want to continue the Samara policy, which said: "I wish we had ten Papastavros", the answer from the government and the Greek people is that the Papastaurs ended this place. Those who appeared as the adolescents, to grab them, have no future in this country. I wish that investments would come back the money they have left abroad but the Papastavriou will not be covered, at least as long as the SYRIZA - Independent Greeks government exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr. Cammene. Mr. Leventis, come on. Please take care of the time, because it's too late. Please do not interfere underneath. The President sometimes asks questions rhetoric. Mr. Papadopoulos, you don't have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u538	I am sorry, Mr President, I do not understand. SYRIZA is in favour of a double name for Skopje. Mr. Kammenos is in favour of the monastery.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u539	Mr President, you do not understand much but at that time we cannot explain them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u540	Excuse me, Mr. Cammene, I need a clarification. You are two partners and one of the partners is in favour of a double name. You're in favor of the monastery, Skopje. So isn't it either you're in favor of double or you don't know and you're going to study it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u541	These are to the pizzas, Mr President, not to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u542	Come on, Mr. Leventis, go on. The President has made it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u543	I wanted to make a clarification. Previously, I said a word about Mr. Kurublis, and some sites wrote that I called him blind. I said that thank God he's blind and he doesn't see the miserable things that happen. You know, it's easy in politics to talk about liver and say some people talk about lungs. As I once said about cops "girls" and writing on the websites that I'm abusing cops. I respect the cops. I just stressed that some government MPs, when going to their districts, were opposed to what they were saying, are at risk. I don't like these, but they happen and, I think, they're going on. As long as a politician, other people say before and after, there will also be consequences. Unless you want the people to accept it all and swallow it. In any case, as far as Skopje is concerned, there is Thessaloniki and we want to know. What is Parliament's decision on Skopje? Is it to say it with a complex name, as SYRIZA says, or should we say it Skopje and say "if you do not change your name, for us you are finished and we will never work with you"? It must be cleared up by the Chamber. Because you're government partners and I don't know what attitude you're taking. It matters. Once I heard Mr. Kammenos and said about Mr. Friends: 'Don't talk like this, don't bring you Friend at the Ministry of Defence'. Wasn't that said, Mr. Friend? Didn't you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u545	Yeah. But it was said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u546	Mr. Kammenos is gone, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u547	Yes, of course. He knows when Mr. Kammenos is leaving. So, the Ministry of Education, which is Mr. Friend, we're sacrificing it, is it the only thing the Ministry of Military is that Mr. Friends shouldn't go? I, Mr. Friend, honor him. Cammenus doesn't think he's appropriate. I think he's fit for everything. Do you once know what he's gone for? Because George Papandreou was suitable for Prime Minister, but not for Minister of Defense. You remember the stories. When Mr Tsipras left for the summit, the mandate of the Heads of State or Government was to open the borders. That was the order. In fact, he wanted the President of the Republic to make a condition, also to impose sanctions on states which do not open the borders. I told the President: "Don't put the word sanctions, because it creates a blonde bow. Put the word 'consequences'. Mr. Pavlopoulos heard me and wrote consequences. When Mr. Tsipras came back, the border was closed again. So what did Mr. Tsipras go out? What did he do? I don't understand that. Because he came back and triumphed that he had a deal. The agreement with Turkey, you know, puts Turkey into the Aegean. Turkey wants money, wants the islands too, and wants the Dodecanese to be a demilitarized zone. Mr Tsipras offered all this, and I am sorry. At the Heads' meeting, don't you know any of them what happened? You in New Democracy don't know why Mr. Mitsotakis got up three times to leave? He took his jacket off and put it in the chair, put it back on. This was done three times and the President of the Republic took him back. I'm saying this because you talked about a consensus that was commanded for conscientiousness. Three times your Chief has gone away. Thank God he's not here, because he could deny it. But anyway, there were so many other witnesses there. He also said to Mrs Genemata: 'If you don't sign, I don't sign either.' What's that? It depended on the agreement in the communiqué on the attitude of Mrs Gemmas, who, Mr. Genemas, had been in agreement for five hours. Because they all did five, "cut" against Leventis. Why did I ask? I said: After we finish the debate on the refugee issue, we can talk two or three hours later about the finances, because the Prime Minister or Chakalotos is going to sign an assessment, so that we can know the limits to which they are going to move. They can sign it all. "No, not to talk about finances," Koutsubas said. "Let's not talk," said Theodorakis. "Let's not talk," said the Birthday. After five hours, however, Mrs Genemata repented and says: 'I also want a government that is universal'. And Tsipras turns around and says to her: “At least Leventis said it in the first place, honest. What's got into you now?" That's exactly what happened. Does the Hall know what was going on in there? If there was a camera showing what was happening in there, the people would lose any idea about this Chamber and its leaders. There is a show on the "REAL FM", called "Greek-Frequency". You know that show. She has a rule of conduct, of cutting words from the rest of the text and twisting meanings to expose persons. That's the purpose of the show. Because I spoke yesterday to the Centro Parliamentary Group, he writes that Leventis asked for 10% next time in the next election. Is that unfair? I don't get it. So, where's the bad thing? And the next one - he says - does he intend to become a government, and that's unfair? I wonder if the people of New Democracy and Syriza deserve to be voted on today. Here you have battled, to prove that everyone has taken useless and dangerous. In this room you gave battle five hours, six hours - as long as we're in here, it's more, I didn't count them - that "you took a villain there", "you took a scoundrel advisor there", "you did that", "you covered the thieves", "you did this." Is this a picture of Parliament, so that you have a requirement to continue to be large parties?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u548	We're big parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u549	You're big parties!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u550	Mr. Papadopoulos, please. The time is 3.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u551	The Prime Minister said he had the majority of the House and the majority of the people. Really? In September you had 35%, plus 3%. So you had 38%. With your burns from there and then, you've lost half.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u552	He's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u553	It's up, but you can't go to your districts. Yeah, that's all right. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr Mitsotakis - I did not understand today - asked for elections directly or indirectly or did he not ask? I don't understand. I really don't understand. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] If we do not have a universal in this country, it is good to have elections. Since you have a majority of the people, you have no problem, the majority you are saying will simply be reconfirmed. I'm sorry, to put it down. You have the majority, according to the Prime Minister, you have it. Well, if you're sure you've got it, make an election to see it already, count it, see where you are, your percentages. That's how men do right when they get the majority. That's how they do. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] But I don't know, the New Democracy wants elections? I didn't understand today because I was in my office. I don't understand. Did your Chief ask for an election, Mr. Treasury?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u555	He asked. I wish. It was, however, answered that they would be at the end of the four-year period. It's the most famous ones. The same answer, of course, you did. The answer was given by the New Democracy, when you told her you don't have the majority of the people. So in this Chamber, what is being done is to conquer one in a insidious way, lying, the occasional parliamentary majority and saying that he has the people. And you think that the people, listening to all this, suspects you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u556	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u557	Does the people suspect you when they see and hear things like that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u558	Mr. Papadopoulos, please. Three o'clock in the morning go to the fields, so you've gone up. As long as the time passes, go up. Come on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u559	I would like, in conclusion, to say something in this Chamber. Today's meeting, what did you want with her? To exacerbate the climate, do not raise your percentages. Make polls, see where you are. I asked Mr Hatzinikolau - why did he also say, there were four journalists fighting me - 'Why don't you do a survey, see how many people want Mr Tsipras and how many want universal?'
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u560	Do you believe in polling?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u561	All right, you're being ironic. You know, irony is a sign of arrogantness. Don’t doubt it, you will see others ironed before you and they are here and they will go even further back to the seat. And the PASOK once had 48.5% and now, if he gets into the House, it's got to go bad here. Ladies and gentlemen, I can see that Mr Kammenos again is not in this Chamber. I've been scandalizing Mr. Kammenos. There's scandals, scandals, scandals. She reported in 2003. In 2003 he was not with New Democracy? He mentioned times when he was with the New Democracy. Does it denounce the times in which it was inside? I don't get it, what kind of government did you do? Right-wing government and left-wing government? You'll tell me: “What Left? Freshwater’. Be well. Keep going. I'm waiting for Mr. Hatzinikolau's poll, to see how many people want Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u562	Thank you. We are correcting, Mr. Leventis, in the Minutes what you said: 'If you are men', etc. We're making it up to you. It was sexist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u563	I said it expressly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u564	We're talking about civilians, men and women.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u565	If we want to, are we wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u566	We don't get it wrong. So for the Minutes. Please, Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u567	I shall speak briefly, Mr President. This government has received the Ministry of Justice, knowing three major problems, which have for decades been afflicting and afflicting the Greek society. One, it was unavoidable of corruption. The second, known for decades as an untreated problem, was the slowness of the administration of justice. The third was the congestion of prisons, which, for a 20-year period, seemed to have been untreated too. At the moment, with regard to the treatment of corruption, some obvious steps have been taken, which the Greek society is aware of, following some persecutions that are taking place for the first time, as well as some payments of significant amounts as guarantees or compensation. With regard to the slowness of the administration of justice, indicators have changed once. Of course, the problem has not been solved, but we have now reduced the number of pending judicial cases in major courts. As far as congestion is concerned, we are well aware that two thousand people were made redundant with the reform that took place with Mr von Wogau. 4322. Dismissal of a similar number of detainees from 1993-95. Of course, this last reform faced two counter-problems, in the form of mud, I can say: One was that the security of prisons was brought down, due to the abolition of third-type prisons, which proved to be untrue, because this type of shops was abolished but the period that passed was probably one of the most secure in the history of Greek prisons. We didn't have any serious escapes. The one we risked losing most of the people was in Domos, of course. From the tunnel that was built, a lot of people could have come out. Of course it was Xero's story. For months we heard - I was hearing - that the disabled came out because of an order - photo for Xeros. The reality was, of course, - and it turns out now - that some ninety people came out with serious disabilities, detained under inappropriate conditions, in which the Drought was not. In my dentistry, I must tell you that, as it turns out, I have progressed. Previously, I heard from Mrs Générale that I am a Minister of State. On her second position, I heard about being around to be present - absent. The right thing to do is precede. I'm completely absent. The Ministry is absolutely absent from any act of interference in justice and from any state of corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u568	Thank you very much, Minister. The Deputy Minister has the floor, Mr Papagelopoulos. With the Minister, we will close today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u569	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, at this hour, that kind of talk. I realise that it is too late, so I will very much limit what I have to say. Of course what should I start? On the substance of Mrs Tsatani's complaint, I have too much evidence to contradict. I don't have the time, nor do I want to trouble the attendees. So I will be content with mistakes and I will only use arguments from what she says. So what does Mrs. Chatani say? That in mid-November - hold the date - he called me and asked me to meet. First, he told me to go to my office at night or afternoon, I didn't pay attention - but keep this one - then he asked me out and when I insisted, he agreed to come to my office. As a reason for her initiative to visit me, she claims that she wanted to remove the misunderstandings that were created between us for some of my statements, where I had referred to court coups. There's not even one construction they can set up. These statements were made on 27 November. So on the 15th day Mrs. Chatani came to my office, I hadn't talked about court coups. Mrs Tsatani must also have divination skills so that she can know from 15 November that I will speak about her on 27 November. What did he say there? She invoked our old fellowship, told me - flattered me - that all her colleagues had said that I am a very good man, a very good colleague, invoked the love I have in my children - who all know it - and asked me to regret her and her daughter, because her daughter was a candidate for New Democracy - and she told me that, in view of her promotion, she did not want to be persecuted disciplinaryly. He told me a lot more. But the conversation is private, and I have principles. I only reveal what I have to reveal on the basis of what he says. The rest I wish not to reveal. But if I have to, I'll say it, 'cause I'm defended.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u570	Has he applied to go to the Arena Ice? Because if you don't apply, you don't go to the Arena Ice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u571	Mr. Athanasios, do not resort to such cheap tricks. In November, what application would he make? He wanted to be promoted this year in June. Now he's making the application? Now he may not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u572	He's never applied.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u573	In November he came to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u574	Please do not be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u575	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u576	Throwing the ball on the platform is too easy. I've done it, too, when I was playing ball, because I was a good defensive. I'll be back in the day before. I assured her that I as Minister and because I respect my old capacity and because my colleagues still love me and love them, I did not intend to combine my term with any disciplinary action against colleagues. Mrs Tsatani must answer some questions. Because, as she admits, she called me and asked me to meet. Is the blackmailer ever gone to the blackmailer? Because he said after that I blackmailed her. Why is she lying when she claims that I asked her to meet to remove the misunderstandings, my statements, which I said before, for court coups I made twelve days later? I forgot to tell you, she showed me a picture of her daughter so I'd feel sorry for her. I got her. She forgot about it in my office, and I've got it, thank God. If I blackmailed her, would she show me a picture of her daughter? Unless - I have another scenario more pulled - I blackmailed her and to pity her she said to me, "Strengthen my child." But that's not what he said. He avoided saying a photo. Why did she give me her phone numbers and asked me to call her, since I, according to her claims, had tried to interfere in her judgment? There are too many questions I can ask, not Mrs Tsatani, why she has no answers, but about the logic of those who can unbiasedly judge. Because - you know - hypocrisy must stop in this place. They raise on a major subject my own advice, which she has asked me, whether or not she is competent. For the essence, alone, she doesn't dare say that I said to prosecute or not exercise. What's my big slip? I said to her: "You are unauthorized and because you are targeted by the newspapers, turn the case-file back." If, then, I express the opinion that the Chalandrian Peace Court - Mr Athanasios, who knows these things - is not responsible for the New Ionian Peace Tribunal, is it not the public prosecutor's responsibility but is the public prosecutor's responsibility, is this an intervention? In this case - I repeat only on a matter of competence and on its own request - we have spoken for three minutes. The rest of the time that she remained in my office, half of her time was devoted to talking to me about her personal life, another reason to feel sorry for her - I am still bound by my principles and my dignity and I am not speaking - and the other half of the remaining time we talked about the case of Giannis Angelos. I don't hide that he's my friend and he's one of the most honest and decent people. In particular, the New Democracy's people must remember how badly Mr Tsatanis, Mr Angelou, had suffered, at the height of his great guarantee and had to mortgage his home. Here, really, I wish I didn't have to reveal what we said. I have one word to tell you, and everyone can think of it. Following this unacceptable behaviour on Giannis Angelou, who - not least - was released by an errand and was not even brought to the audience, Mrs Tsatani's husband was appointed by the government of Mr Samaras as general regional hospital commander. Everyone can think of what they want for it. Mr. Mitsotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u577	First he was appointed by the government of Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u578	I said it, Mr. Kegeroglu. I said it, but you weren't here. I also said to you that Mr Voulgarakis was discharged from Mr Voulgarakis - there had also been a public confrontation between Mr Vulgarakis and her husband Mr Tsatani - and that is why she still had to abstain when he handled the case of Vatopedio, who was accused of the wife of Vulgarakis. I don't remember her name now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u579	Peleki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u580	We've been through this. In any case, it's detailed. Anyone can judge what has been played in this story. The President of the New Democracy, if I remember well, said some time ago that he would not judge me from my political past but from my current actions. That is exactly what I want for two reasons: firstly, because I always believe that public persons are judged on a daily basis and I want to judge what I do but to judge fairly and not on a hypocrisy that I am interfering, because the other person has asked me for my opinion and I told her about issues not fundamentally but procedure. I also don't want you to judge me, based on my past, because I'm slightly more than honest in life, the guilty are asking me and I'm not guilty. I don't like blackmail. That's why I'm neither blackmailing nor blackmailing. Because blackmail is here, but blackmail is at my expense. I'll either resign or be suffocated. Nothing will happen until the Prime Minister trusts me no matter what they tell me. They have tried it before, and I also answered Mr Theodorakis. For a decade, they've been lying and saying - I'll say it again for a wheelchair - that I've put the Pakistani people in the file, I've filed the intercepts, I've investigated the death of Tsalidis and all that others have done. The blackmail game against me won't pass, gentlemen. However, I would like to say - and I am coming back to what I said to Mr Mitsotakis, that I do not want to be judged by my past, but I want to be judged by my present - that we must not forget that the past is a projection of the future and of the present and I do not say that, I repeat, to judge me on the basis of my past. I say this, so that someone else can judge on the basis of their past and not allow them to be lured and enclaved by people who have betrayed the New Democracy party and the country. The New Democracy, as I know it at least, has always been in its longest life - with the exception of a minimum of exceptions - the prolongation of the measure, consensus and supply at home. Let today’s leadership not be taken away from a few very few exceptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u581	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on a pre-dated order under Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure has been concluded at the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras at the level of the heads of parties on developments in the field of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-29-S1-commons.u582	With the consent of the House at 3.15 p.m. the sitting is closed for Wednesday 30 March 2016 at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
