ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 25 February 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 563/22-2-2016 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the abolition of double and triple pensions granted to MPs and members of local government. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The No. 541/15-2-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of New Democracy Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou to the Minister of State, on the attempt to establish a party state. 3. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. 4. The Question No 557/16-2-2016 by F Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of National Defence on the landing of military planes in Rhodes. 5. Mr Christos Katsotis, Member of Parliament, Mr Christos Katsotis, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on measures to ensure the cleanliness of the school units and the working rights of the cleaners/cleaners employed in schools in Chora. 6. The No. 549/16-2-2016 topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos Kammenos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the payment of warranties for the release of indictees. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 560/20-2-2016 by MP II Piraeus of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economics to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the management of the financing of the Hellenic Open University through the NSRF programmes from the previous administrations of the Foundation. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the response from the NRP of the project "Iraklio - Mesara Road Axis" and its delay in its completion. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 548/16-2-2016 was raised by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgios Germenis to the Minister of Finance, on the "sales of the Star Bulk from the TEAD". 3. PASOK-DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the dissolution or transfer of the University Departments of Agrinio to Patras through the transfer of members of the LAG. 4. The No. 554/16-2-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health about the problems of running the Centre for the Health of Parentium in the Regional Unit of Drama. 5. The No. 550/16-2-2016 topical question of the Member of the Representation of the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the Evaluation Committee and the Committee for the Inadequacy of Articles 15 and 16 of the Code of Lawyers and the excessive delay of registration in the registrants of legal graduates who are recognised as equivalent by the IOTAP. 6. The Question No 520/9-2-2016 by MP Evros of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Anastassia Gara to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the reduction of the cotton production plan and the extension of the harvest deadline for the years 2014-2015. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 534/15-2-2016 by the New Democracy MP Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the parametering of the prices for the sale of electricity by the professional farmers - owners of photovoltaic stations. 8. The question asked by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the "leaving" of investments. 9. The Question No 530/12-2-2016 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on 'Research and Rescue in the Aegean'. 10. The Question No 466/1-2-2016 by Mr. Attica of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the "millions shared by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to the bankrupt parties". 11. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of the projects for the development of the former airport of Greece. 12. Under number 426/19-1-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the immediate reopening of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the re-entry of workers from WASTE SOLUTIONS. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question by No 429/19-1-2016 of the Athens MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the resolution of the "SAPIS" Group's problem and the determination of the time schedule for the payment of the compensation to the beneficiaries. 14. Observed. Under number 497/8-2-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister of Health, concerning health problems, serious deficiencies in intensive care units (IMPs) and the development of the National Transplant Organisation (ETM). 15. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the Yunker package. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the reduction of charges on the use of plastic money and transactions via e-banking. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question and application under number 745/38/2-11-2015 by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr Kim Glen, as Prime Minister. 3. The question asked by MP B' Athens, George Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, regarding the procurement of banks for the interbank transfers and the use of cards. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: "National Register of Executives of Public Administration, Gradual Structure of Positions, Evaluation, Promotion and Selection of Heads (transparency - merit and Effectiveness of Public Administration) and other provisions". The bill was debated and passed at the beginning of yesterday. Today's session will discuss the articles and amendments of the bill as one unity. The procedure is as follows: the rapporteurs and the special speakers will first speak on the articles and amendments, then the remaining speakers on the principle, who will speak on both the articles and the amendments and then take the floor on any articles and amendments. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr George Papaliou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, if I may, we have said yesterday that the Minister will be placed on the amendments at least on those which are ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u3	I'll be in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u4	Good. It is good for the rapporteurs to know how it is placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by listening yesterday to the speeches by colleagues from the Com mittee on Representation and their arguments, one would conclude that, in addition to the individual objections and objections they raised, their vote in the bill at first instance would be positive. We are therefore amazed at the 'no' in principle. However, I would say that our surprise is not complete, since it is well known that the New Democracy is exercising opposition to the opposition. In addition, the New Democracy Party and its allies are prepared to agree - and yet the words are in agreement - with the findings of the public administration's pathogens, for which the New Democracy, like the PASOK, are jointly responsible. These pathogens led to the need to file the bill. Therefore, if the New Democracy were to vote positively, it would be like a shot at micro-groups. However, politically, it would go beyond recognition by everyone. However, the New Democracy cannot stand it, because the bill forms another framework for public administration that overthrows all of it so far. It overthrows parties' partyism, public administration's dependence on party ministerial authority. And that - I repeat - the New Democracy cannot stand it. For the well-meaning citizens, but also for the bodies that we have heard, the bill is socially and economically necessary and politically required. For the first time, public administration staff are dealt with in full. Four key points are: The creation of the National Register of Public Administration Executives as a tank from which its executives will be drawn, the new way of evaluating, rating, and the new way of selecting heads, participation and social accountability. This legislative intervention - the first series of others - aims to bring about a substantial change in the administrative system. The current situation is known and refers to the distant but also to the recent past. Everything is linked to how public administration's relations with the other pole of the political system, the government, had been established. These relationships have not changed for decades. It is, in many cases, the cause of the problems of public administration delays and its image. The nature of these relationships is determined by the element of partyization and public administration's dependence on the government, including the Minister in question, which is a product of customer relations. The customer phenomenon and the contributory relationship of the political, party system were and is the cause not only of the situation of the administrative mechanism but also of the country's general position. Public administration was never a servant of the people, but a body of the political establishment, which considered it an estate. The state was not a guarantor of collective progress, but a victim of the party and parapolitical mechanisms that faced it as a spoil. With the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, this form of dependency and relations, which refers to other times, we aspire to be a past. In this context, the bill is a bill of rupture and anticipation, a bill that aims to instill three concepts unknown to the public administration in practice to date, but necessary as ever: merit, credibility, trust. And now I come to individual issues, articles. As regards the position of the Secretary-General, Article 6 of the bill states that the general and special secretaries undertake the implementation and administrative implementation of the policy as defined by the Government. It goes without saying that the legally elected government is politicizing, defining political choices. In this context, the public administration is moving and must move. And I wonder, what do you propose? Does the public administration have to be a captain, an autonomous area for independent policy outside the policies of the government concerned? I'd say this is an innovative idea! Here's a reform that I must say we hadn't thought of: public administration implementing a policy other than that of the government! But let's come seriously. The New Democracy, in its position for the proposed objective and remarkable choice of Secretary-General, goes further than its own positions in the past and nonetheless contradicts itself. While accusing us of setting up a party state, when we are attempting to unleash the top of the administrative pyramid from the respective political leadership of the Ministry and the Minister, rather than consenting, in order to be fundamentally consistent with what he says, but also common sense, he proposes exactly the opposite. With regard to the objection that private sector officials are not included in the National Staff Register, I would like to say: dear colleagues, we are not discriminatory and much more ideological in favour of public officials. We are, however, in favour of the state, of the public administration that performs its task under the Constitution and the laws and operates in favour of the public interest. First of all, private sector staff are not excluded from executive tasks of legal persons governed by public law, directors of public limited companies whose administration is chosen by the Government, since these positions are also open to tender involving private sector officials. The National Register relates to members of the public sector who are highly qualified, who are able to take up positions of responsibility. That is what we are talking about. The tank from which these strains will be pumped shall be from the public administration. Through the National Registry, public administration determines itself, as its executives with knowledge, know-how and experience, which carry the positive value of the government associated with the service of the public interest and the taking of social responsibility, can understand these positions. The rationality and effectiveness of the public sector cannot be ensured only if it defines the rules, operating methods and personnel to be made up of. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, I would like two more minutes. In any case, we do not deny that there could be another register involving high-qualified civil society officials. That, however, is another matter. If you mean to incorporate in the National Register of Company Managers, which are indeed linked or seek to be connected to the public or to be competitive with specific activities, we do not consent. Furthermore, in order to take responsibility for private sector officials, relations between the public and private sectors need to be clarified and the relationships between the public and the private sectors need to be defined so that there are no dependencies and 'extreme' routes on either side which are interrelated and which result in corruption. The intersection of public-private sector, which has been produced in particular in recent years, with the influx of neoliberalism and the imposition of a commission in the country, has highlighted a public-sector-dependent private-sector, counterproductive and insecure and interacting phenomena and a public-private-based public-interest with a lack of or a reduced sense of responsibility and with great corruption. We therefore seek the public to carry out its task, defend the public interest, serve the citizen in his dealings with it and support the development effort. I would also like to make a comment, which is linked to the article on codifying legislation, restoring internal coherence of law, improving the quality and production process of laws and regulations, and systematic integration into sets of rules. This is an absolutely necessary project, and this is because the totality of provisions, laws, ministerial decisions, interpretative circulars, which are most often linked to the way we legislate ourselves, have made the general institutional framework that is not accessible, incomprehensible, contradictory, opaque, both for citizens and businesses and for the public administration itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Papaliou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. The fact that efforts have been made in the past to rebuild public administration does not deny it. However, they were fruitless because of the artificially concealed political will to maintain party enforcement and customer relations. The establishment and operation of the IACC and the National School of Public Administration are important exceptions. But let's remember that the late Anastasios Peponis, whose name is called "Peponis", the law on the ASP, resigned, denounced his own party and government at the time of PASOK that he was trying to undermine the law. This effort is the first step in an integrated project for the reform of public administration. That is why there is a strong political will and knowledge. And, like yesterday, I conclude that this bill is an important step towards the institutional reconstruction of the country. The opposition parties are invited to support it, since it is known that the public administration is the great patient of the Greek state, but also the necessary lever for development. Only with such interventions can heal. Thank you and apologies for overcoming time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. I must, however, inform the House that they have declared themselves to speak on the articles, as a protagonist, forty-eight Members. And you realise that we all have the right to secondary education, namely the rapporteurs and the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives. If the regulation on time does not apply, we are not going to end today. We must, however, and we will be done today. I therefore ask everyone to keep the time in accordance with what the Rules of Procedure stipulate. Eight minutes, then, is speaking time for the rapporteurs and special speakers. Mr Georgiotis, rapporteur on behalf of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, if I may, because the Minister, from what we see, is not ready to place himself on the amendments, especially on the ministers, and our position would be incomplete because we have no picture of who he will accept, I ask - not only mine, but also the other rapporteurs, I think - that some of the speakers should speak and we should be placed later, when the Minister has also placed himself. At the moment, it is basically unobjectional to place ourselves when we do not know what is going to happen on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u11	That is your opinion. She is acceptable and respected, but we will proceed to the next special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, precisely because a number of ministerial amendments have been tabled, but others which we need to see if they are accepted by the Minister, I propose that the list of speakers should continue and that the rapporteurs be placed at a later date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u15	Your positions are respected, but everyone must be asked in turn. And if everyone gives up their position, the process will proceed. Mr Aivatidis, special speaker of the People's League - Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will try one on the articles of indulgence and analysis, beginning with Article 1 on the setting up of a National Register of Civil Service Executives. I have to note that it is not included - although it could be included - Greek scientists and teachers from foreign universities, who could understand some positions such as those provided for in the relevant articles. It is also stated that persons who have several final sentences are not entered in the register. I would say that by means of criminal prosecution for a felony, for example, or by a referral order, too, it would be a precondition not to include these persons in the register. With regard to Article 21 on evaluations and the Special Assessment Committee, I would like to say that this draft law provides for multiple assessments, evaluations on evaluations, and actually leads public administration to a service introvert to the burden - I think - of the public and social interest, of the interests of the citizen. As far as Article 19 is concerned, I note that it does not seem to me that there will be any practical follow-up. Perhaps, then, a provision should be made in this respect. For Articles 22 and 24 concerning the targeting and social control, the State official and the official will in fact be subject to the maximum amount of these two articles and will be forced by service. This is what I believe to be at the expense of the public interest once again, since the surrounding atmosphere, this atmosphere of the memoranda, generally, makes it difficult for the citizen and, of course, for the official and state officials. With regard to Article 25 on promotions, I would like to be specific and to mention an example concerning the Medical Service, which I have served for sixteen consecutive years. In 2008 some appointments were made. The Department and the Forensics Board had then decided not to be selected as a candidate who was most qualified on the basis of the data available, because he had not provided a photocopy of identity, with the consequence that the candidate in question had recourse to the administrative courts to win the case. He then refused to accept the appointment and the coroners who had been appointed then, in 2008, while in July 2016 he should take grade B, are seated in grade IV, i.e. introductory grades. That is exactly what shows the pathogenicity of a system and it really needs bold solutions. As far as Article 42 is concerned, I wanted to make the following comment. Article 42 of the National Council for the Codification and Reform of Greek legislation provides as President the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. Perhaps the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights should also be included here, since we are talking about legislation. As far as Articles 43, 46, 44 and 51 are concerned, they are articles which have a positive sign and are among the articles we will consider voting on at least'residents'. I would like to go to the amendment concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on seasonal staff with a fixed-term contract of employment, with an upper limit of eight months. Indeed, in the Consulate of Greece, especially in Russia, there is a particularly high burden of work. I have heard the Minister speak about four - five million Russians who are available to choose Greece and other countries, since the problem with Turkey and Egypt is well known. The forecasts currently available are that in 2016 arrivals from the Russian Federation will reach a maximum level of 2014. I therefore believe that this is not a special success of the government, when a euro is now 84 rubles, that is, it has been devalued in a way. Although the airlines, 'AEROFLOT', 'AEGEAN', have lowered prices, I believe, as the Secretary-General of Tourism of Russia, Irina Tirurina, have said, that Russian tourists will choose major domestic destinations, namely Crimea, Sochi and Abkhazia in the Black Sea. To conclude, I would like to emphasise to the SYRIZA Members, above all, that they have an elastic political conscience. I do not understand how, with great pride, they speak of this draft law when this draft law is tabled in an extremely difficult atmosphere. When many of them expressed "EEC and NATO the same syndicate", they now admit NATO to appear and attempt in the Greek Aegean. The Golden Dawn will oppose all these methods that are ethnic erosions. I repeat that the Golden Dawn is the national guard within and outside Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u19	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in order to facilitate the flow of the debate. I would like to tell you from the whole of the amendments that have been tabled so far, which are accepted. I shall return to a second cycle, because some of us have to fix them in a legal way. We can get in touch if there's a reason. Probably because there may be some others, we can see them in a second year. The amendments accepted are as follows: Amendment No 217 and special 2, Amendment No 218 and specific 3, Amendment No 218, Amendment No 219 and Special No 4, Amendment No 221 and Special No 5, Amendment No 222 and Special No 6, Amendment No 223 and Special No 7, Amendment No 227 and Special Amendment No 10, Amendment No 228 and Special Amendment No 11, Amendment No 230 and Special Amendment No 13, Amendment No 234 and Special Amendment No 14, Amendment No 257 and Special Amendment No 27, Amendment No 256 and Special Amendment No 26, Amendment No 255 and Special Amendment No 254, Amendment No 254 and Special Amendment No 244, Amendment No 253 and Special Amendment No 23, Amendment No 252, Amendment No 252 and Special Amendment No 22, Amendment No 250 and Special Amendment No 18, Amendment No 245 and Special Amendment No 242, Amendment No 242, and Special Amendment No 17, with a specific amendment No 242, subject to any improvement. But, first of all, it's accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Papatheodorou does not want to speak now. Mr. Delis, would you like the floor? I ask you, because the other two rapporteurs have reserved them to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u22	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u23	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, two of the few times that the Minister has responded to the criticism of the Communist Party of Greece - the first relates to the last committee in which we examined the bill - he asked and pointed out to us about the capitalist strategy of the last twenty-five years aimed at reducing the state, saying that we have a tendency in the smaller state and a downgrading of the administration due to neoliberalism. What we want to ask is whether the strategy of capitalism for the state, which was before this strategy of so-called neoliberalism, was a philosophical strategy. Did capitalist exploitation stop or increase as much as labour productivity was growing? Here it is good to remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the strategy of the extensive state that has been implemented in various countries of post-war capitalist Europe has been implemented by both social democrats and liberal governments. This strategy, of course, was set by the system's needs and served many objectives, as well as capitalist growth, which after World War II required huge funds, which is why this development was made through extensive state investment and also the stability of the system, through the integration of wide folk strata, which naturally accepted the beneficial effect of labour conquests by the countries of socialist construction. Finally, the debate on the smaller or larger state within the capitalist system is a debate far from the interests and needs of workers, because the nature and role of the state does not depend on its size or quantity, depends on and is defined by whose hands it is in. Yesterday, the Minister answered the question raised by the JRC "Who is the state administration working for?" He replied that this was the case for the State, that the State would work or work for the people's needs and the public interest. Where does that come from, Minister? What are you saying to us, that the general government and political line will move within the strategy of capital and the European Union, that anti-popular laws and measures will be brought to the fore, whether by memoranda or without, and by public and public services, in favour of people's needs? Aren't they going to apply these laws and measures? So, because the executives will be chosen in any transparent way, does this mean that the state is changing? And what is the main for civil servants and for the people? How do the government officials choose or what policy they serve for and what? The assessment you link it directly to targeting is not exactly to serve this policy loyally? The state mechanism you want to modernise, didn't you set it for the general needs of capital? Isn't any transparency, dignity, efficiency? That's why you're doing it. And that is defined not by the wishes of your own personal, perhaps, but by the general government policy. It is of interest here that the debate that has been held on the Staff Register, firstly, because we are seeing an agreement between all the wings, except the JRC. And of course, there are disagreements about the procedure, about who they will be, when they will start etc. In any case, we have to say here that in the first thirteen articles of the bill, it seems that from this National Executive Register, it is the Minister who will finally select the senior state officials, without excluding the private sector. And in the end, of course, every member of state who is chosen will also sign the respective commitment agreement, with the association of Greek industrialists and employers. We now come to the review from 2014 to 2024, the reactionary state control that has little - far too much of what previous laws have had, about the behaviour of officials in and out of service - that is not clear - and the consultative interview. We insist on the interpretation you give of this criterion that you enter into crisis management. We keep asking and answering is not exactly what you mean. There is, however, something else, because there has been a great debate here on the fact that the punishing nature of the evaluation is no longer being punished. I must remind you here that Article 95 of the Treaty. 3728/2007, which is the Civil Service Code, shall apply. Not revised. And this article 95 says that an official judged to be unexplained for two consecutive times is referred by the Board of Directors to dismiss or reduce his grade. Therefore, this may not have had to be mentioned in this law, but it exists and works. Of course, in terms of targeting in the same article, we have explained in detail that we are vertically opposed not in general by setting targets. It's a question of what objectives you set. And these objectives, as we have said, are defined by the general government policy. And Article 24 of the Public Administration Observatory, which will closely monitor these objectives, is also coming. As far as the rating is concerned, we have Articles 25-28, which are linked to the rating and to the wage evolution of officials, as the recently adopted salary bill says, and of course Articles 29-31 on the criteria for selecting heads. I would say that here you are not avoiding the temptation to lay such provisions to choose your own children too. I now come to the so-called other provisions. There have of course been five articles, but there are some amendments to which we must refer. I would therefore ask for a minute, Mr President, for your tolerance. He leaves Article 32, but the Minister said yesterday that he would bring it back. It is an article giving the Minister the right to hold compulsory secondments of officials. In other words, it strengthens so-called'mobility'. In Article 33, enter compulsory transfers through the change of the appointing body. You insist that you keep that. But of course this leads directly to the abolition of organic positions. It also leaves Article 45 and Article 44 is left for the Open University, which is, of course, one operation and nothing else, with degrees and tuition. This is particularly relevant for the operation of the public administration. Article 51 is a direct shot at depreciating the degree of historians and archaeologists, once you have entered other criteria, such as postgraduate, for their recruitment or registration. Here we want to take note and denounce, if you like, the withdrawal of Article 48 which was one of the few positive features of this bill. This withdrawal turns against the workers and against the mayors, but also against those who stand by them. I would also like to say a few words on the amendment tabled by Mr Pappas here for the ERT. This amendment enables ERT and Athenian Agency journalists to work in the private sector as well. What changed and while the government celebrated ERT's founding law on the perpetuality of journalists, is now changing attitudes? In fact, the criteria for granting this licence will be determined by a ministerial decision. What impact will this have on the more general working conditions of those working at the ERT? Aren't objective acquisition and manipulation conditions not created? I would of course like to remind you of the JRC's amendments. Finally, I would like to say that we are voting against all the articles in the basic section of the bill concerning public administration. We will, of course, be more detailed and more specific about what is left of the articles, about the other provisions, but also about the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Kokalis, Member of the Independent Greeks, has the floor. Here, you have the floor and I make the request for eight minutes, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Chapter I of the draft law includes the establishment of the National Register of Civil Service Executives and Legal Persons, in which, as has been said, they are about forty-five thousand civil servants who may be involved. On the basis of this register, the administrative positions of increased public responsibility will be covered. With the establishment and creation of the National Executive Register, which will be served by high-qualified civil servants and graduates with grade A, it will be the main source from which the General Secretaries of the Ministries will be chosen, the Chairs and members of the Boards of Directors of all legal persons of the State and will have a positive effect on the independence of the public administration by party interventions. Innovative, too, is that the choice of employees will be made by an independent body, the Special Selection Council, with increased and guaranteed participation of the AACC. This is how multiple benefits are achieved. Initially, the basic principle of continuity, as well as the unity of action of the public administration, takes the flesh and bones. Let us not forget that until before each government ensured immediate solutions and tactics, where their results only appeared within the three-year period for the benefit of its own officials. The implementation of legislation also remains distinct and does not interfere with each other with the aim of a constitutional requirement for separation of powers. The result shall be promoted to reduce the proportion of possible interoperable and corruption with a corresponding efficient functioning of the system through transparent procedures. Moreover, the criteria for selecting all those who will claim key positions in the state mechanism are in accordance with the principles of sovereignty and equality laid down in Article 1 of the Staff Code, n. 3528/2007, which did not exist in Article 1 of the previous Staff Code and which would remain a blank letter without the corresponding provision in this draft law. A significant change, too, with the expansion of the circle of persons who would benefit from the proposed arrangements for taking responsibility is given in this draft law, despite the fact that it was not provided for in the consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, there are innovative arrangements in this draft law, such as criteria and the evaluation procedure for officials - I refer to Article 17 - which are included in three categories: Firstly, knowledge of the subject, interest and creativity, administrative capacity, competence, comprehensive knowledge of the administrative work, commitment and interest, initiative and innovative ideas. Secondly, service relations and behaviour, excellent communication with the rest of the officials and direct service of the citizens. Third, efficiency, quantitative and qualitative labour performance, crisis management, added value of administrative work and the degree of achievement of the objectives set according to the position of the staff member and his participation in the overall objective of his part. The rating is set from 0 to 100. It is also recommended that an address for monitoring and statistical analysis of ratings under the Directorate-General for Human Resources and undergoes the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. This address shall also issue annual evaluation instructions and shall check the extreme values and correct by decision of the Community Reform Council following correction coefficients. I come to Article 18 - for example, mentioning certain specific articles, which introduce innovative regulations - 'criteria and procedure for evaluating Chief Organisational Positions'. The criteria for the Heads of Organisational Units are different in view of the nature of the object and the requirements of the post. In particular: Knowledge of the subject, understanding, interest and creativity, which examines professional competence, knowledge of the subject and organisational capacity, assesses the proper conception of problems and the development of practical solutions, as well as continuous improvement and performance, service relations and behaviour, i.e. communication and behaviour with citizens and heads, but also existing orally orally or in writing, administrative capacity and efficiency. An advisory evaluation shall be carried out in accordance with Article 19 to discuss ways of improving and exploiting its staff for the benefit of the administration. Article 20 provides for objections. Each staff member shall have the right to object if his grade is less than 70, in which he sets out all the facts justifying the reasons for his objections. The evaluation committee shall be set up and established by Article 21. It is therefore planned to set up a Evaluation Committee in each Ministry, General and Special Secretariat of the Ministry, Decentralised Administration, Region or autonomous public service and any legal entity governed by public law having a Board of Directors. Article 22 provides for the most infamous targeting. The procedure for setting the targets and the specific stages shall be defined. Article 23, full-time address and department. They shall constitute advisory bodies involving officials holding their position in this section. It shall be convened by the respective Head of Division or Address. The Plenary Session shall meet three times a year. The aim is to assess the course of the address's objectives, while the rapporteur is the Head or the responsible official. Innovative regulation is Article 24, accountability and social control, public administration observatory. Accountability is established where citizens' opinion through electronic applications from the central government and electronic transactions in the public administration now shapes the quality of services, while a Public Administration Observatory is recommended at the National Centre for Public Administration and Government. The aim is through project groups to reflect the proposals and observations of the citizens, the officials of the services, where they report and submit them to the Minister. Article 25, graduation of positions. Article 26, grading entry - pre-service recognition. Article 26 amends Article 98 of the Staff Code and Article 102 of the Code of Conduct for Municipal and Community Staff by regulating issues of grading integration. In particular, it is laid down that officials who have before their appointment a genuine public service office shall, as a result of their permanent appointment, become permanent until the immediate ending, taking into account any excess of time to that extent following a recommendation from the Board of Directors. Appropriate services shall also be provided for up to seven years before appointment. This shall be taken into account if it is proved. A selection system for heads. Article 29, Heads of Organic Units - procedure and criteria for selecting heads. Articles 84 to 86 of the Code of Statement of Civilian Administrative and Officials of the NGO, ratified by Article 1 of Law 3528/2007, as well as Articles 87 to 89 of the Code of Status of Municipal and Community Staff, ratified by Article 1 of Law 3584/2007, are replaced. Four sets of criteria are taken into account: firstly, moleculosis based on formal qualifications and qualifications; secondly, moleculosis based on work and administrative experience; thirdly moleculosis based on evaluation; and fourthly moleculosis based on an interview. The Heads of Directorate-General shall be chosen by the Special Selection Council and the Heads of Administration shall be chosen by the Selection Board. It is too little time to develop the whole draft law and articles. We have also discussed them in committee. This draft law serves the principle of subsidiarity and transparency. What had not been done in previous years is brought by this government. And it calls for the vote of all the opposition parties, because we must put an end to the adequacy, we must put an end to customer relations. And we need to know that public administration should not be for one and two years. Public administration is a lever for growth, which will help above all our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr Cockfield, also for the consistency in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-one students and four educational sessions from the 2nd Gymnasium of Perama. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Georgiadis, a special speaker of the Centron Union, has the floor for eight minutes. And I'm requesting, Mr. Georgiades, for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone, good morning, and those who've been in the upper theory. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by saying that the public at the moment has a mess and you all know that. There are wrong people in wrong positions, there is no computerization and technological infrastructure, there is a huge administrative cost and there is very great bureaucracy. We agree that your predecessors, of course, have contributed to this, but a state can enter the real middle ages even within a few months. The argument 'yes, we slowly did not destroy this state within a few months' is not right and you should stop saying so. The country is even destroyed within one day with one wrong move. These patents for one civil servant to assess the other must be completely eliminated from public life. They must be completely shut down and I say that, because if you want to completely end this whole process that you want to impose, there is a very revolutionary way of doing so. I'll tell you how it can be done: get the employee to score himself. Of course there's irony behind it. I will tell you exactly how we can, beyond jokes and beyond irony, really solve this problem. The evaluation of public staff needs to be done as is done in all the trustworthy agencies and businesses of the modern Western world. And because you don't seem to understand that, I'll bring you an example. Now I really would like you to listen to me carefully. I will not mention the company's name, I will only mention the manager's name, who has applied this technique, is Jack Welch, who has taken over a very well-known company, internationally prestigious, trade in technology. It was then taken over in 1981 and led it to an absolute success for twenty years, increasing its value by 4,000%. At first, he observed a huge proportion of wages and subsistence. You know what he did? It has dismantled a large proportion of wages and has since been employed by new recruits, it has introduced a permanent system of evaluation, from the cleaners to the governors. We're talking about redemption. If you don't want to see the public as an operation, I'm sorry, I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u29	We're sorry to see the public as a business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u30	I'm really sorry, that's why we've arrived here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u31	Because it's not an operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u32	It has brought an end, in other words, to the employment relationship with non-working workers who do not work and some of them do not even come to their post. And it's not over there. In order to ensure that there are no such phenomena again, it has proceeded with the establishment of a lasting evaluation. Was he tough? Of course he wasn't tough. He was fair. And not only that, he was an anti-capitalist himself. He publicly criticised the trend of modern capitalism about stock market value by saying: "The value of a corporate share is the most stupid thing in the world. The actual value exists only in the employees, customers and products of the company.’
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u33	Is the world a client?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u34	What were the two most important qualifications of a good worker, according to him? Always give more than they ask. Giving exactly what they are asking is a simple answer to a given question, which does not make any difference. And having a good mood, because no one can produce in a misery climate. We see these things as completely missing from the public sector. And not just that. In fact, we see that the civil servants themselves are missing. They constantly come out in the newsroom cases of slow - pay and fragile behavior. In the past, I have tabled relevant cases that have seen the light of publicity. So how do we combat these carcinomas? Definitely not with aspirins, and certainly not with analgesics. Only with radical treatment. What, then, does the Centroon Association propose? In the world literature there is the staff evaluation system ‘360 degree’. Like we said, we don't even have to discover the wheel. Because we do not keep the solutions for ourselves and because knowledge is free, I will submit to the Minutes all sources, thirty for the accuracy of bibliographical sources, on how this system is implemented. And I hope that even one of you will be found to read and see how this evaluation system is being implemented. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is a multi-faceted evaluation of officials, including self-assessment, but not in the way that you want to do it. The system speaks of an anonymous assessment of all employees by their colleagues. Apart from that, it also speaks of an external evaluation and, above all, of the individuals with whom each organisation interacts every day, and that means objectivity, gentlemen. But we see in the bill that your intention of social accountability is absolutely pretext. In addition, I would like to focus on an important and important point. The mission of the National Centre for Public Administration is to train and train all kinds of staff. The aim of the two-year training at the National School of Public Administration is to provide responsibility for public administration and local administration by qualified officials and horizontally. Moreover, the fact that civil servants are subject to different branches depending on the subject of employment must not imply the cancellation of the mission of their education and of the State's investment in them. For the above reasons, we want to propose a legislative improvement. In Article 29 on Heads of organic units and their selection criteria, in relation to paragraph 1, which replaces Article 84 of the Code on Civilian Administrative Officers and Legal Persons of Public Law, in the new Article 84, paragraph 5 of the last subparagraph states: ‘The graduates of the National School of Public Administration and Administration may participate as candidates in the proclamation of any post of responsibility regardless of their qualifications’. We propose that it be added: 'and the sector to which it falls.' In addition, with regard to paragraph 4 of Article 87 of the Code of Statement for Municipal and Community Staff, ratified by the first article, in the new Article 87(5), the last subparagraph states: ‘The graduates of the National School of Public Administration and Government may participate as candidates in the proclamation of any post of liability irrespective of their qualifications’. Here, too, we propose that the sector to which it belongs be complemented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not do more than a minute, Mr President. I am tabling this legislative improvement on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the Centro Association is making proposals, proposals for substance and not just mechanisms to settle them. In your hand is to put them in place and finally to move the Greek state and our country, to respect us the Greek citizen and to appreciate the services we offer him, to stop seeing officials with newspapers in the hand, telephone in the ears and laughs and to listen to what they bought from the people and what the best and best man did and finally to produce work. I would once again stress this: I am not referring to everyone. There is a very worthy portion of civil servants, who really honor the money they receive from the taxpayer. But they cannot work on the back of those who sit at their home or those who are present at the service. We have voted against this bill in principle and we will be placed on the articles during the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister of Education is not here. Do you want to have the floor now or then, Mr. Georgioda?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u36	We're ready, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u37	Mr Georgioda, therefore, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will first place on what was said yesterday by the speakers, especially by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. We must decide what has finally happened with the public in relation to the New Democracy. For some, we are the ones who created a partyised public, who wanted to have a controlled public. On the other hand, however, they came and accused us of restricting the structures of the public sector, we fired officials, we sought to mitigate services - to allow the expression - and we actually chased civil servants. We have also pursued their impoverishment and their dismissal. Both of these cannot apply. It's contradictory. Anyone who wants a party-based public is the one who cares for it to be large, because it is an election clientele, it is the one who cares to meet the wishes, demands, requests - fair or not - of civil servants. They can't be both. And, of course, about what is finally true of the public, I think it is a conscience in our society that a large proportion of civil servants have been placed in the last elections. We have tried - and it was not easy, it was difficult - to make a real rationalisation of the public, in relation to structures and in relation to the targets and in relation to evaluation and in relation to the exploitation of all its human resources. We have attempted it through divisions that were difficult for us, difficult for many of the employees to accept for society. We tried it because, you know, usually everything that's to improve its first application has a cost, it has a pain. What's not toward good, what's easy, eventually doesn't lead to right directions. Here, too, we see that any interventions you take are interventions which do not assess any negative effects, some consequences for anyone who cannot respond, whether in relation to his or her service or in relation to his or her status, or to his behaviour with the citizens of the European Union. This in itself must concern everyone. Minister, yesterday you withdrew some of the articles, in particular the other provisions. I will be one of those who will say that you have finally done so. Of course, I think it was a one-way road as the process evolved, at least for some of these articles. And you kept yourself from being exposed for a choice, which I want to believe wasn't yours. Some corrections have been made in some of the articles. Some to the good, some to create a confusion. I shall refer a little to Rule 36. That is right in Article 36 for those who are retired and who wish to do so, to come back without a crisis by an institution. However, there are issues which are not solved by your intervention in this particular case. One question is that you exclude them from positions of responsibility. I'm talking about that, I see it in his logic. On the other hand, think of someone who, up to five months ago, was in charge of a service, which enables him to return to his or her organic position, to his or her organic unit, but simply as an employee. My concern is how it will eventually be useful, how it will serve in this position. Are we finally gaining something from reinstatement two, three years before they finally leave the public when we do not allow them to perform their duties in previous years? That's my concern. I do not hide from you that I do not have an exact position on the matter. However, I think your intervention is incomplete. It might be possible to assess the levels of responsibility and see who can go back to responsibility when the level of responsibility is smaller and who can't, when it's bigger. I don't know, but I think he's incomplete. It will create issues and will actually not offer anything to the public. On your amendments, the truth is that yesterday I was rushed to say that there was a negative record in the ministerial amendments. Ultimately, we've reached 10 to this moment when we're talking. We have not avoided the double-digit number of ministerial amendments. I would like to mention two of them - one of them is ministerial and one of the other Members - which you said you accepted. But I think it is a great mistake to continue with that view. The first relates to the Ministerial Amendment No 256 on the selection of the Heads of the Directorate-General for Coordination, signed by Mr Flavouraris. The explanatory statement quite rightly states that in particular this service differs from all other services. It is a service which must also indicate the continuity of this address with the very serious work it has done. Based on this logic, they have been chosen by the previous law of 2013 through an assessment, not by a placement, through councils, of persons who were given unreserved responsibility. We are now coming for these people - unnecessarily, in my view - to reopen these positions and there are two issues. The first issue is why we do it, when the logic of choice was the continuation. We are effectively downgrading this service by placing it in the same status as all other services. That's what we're doing. The second is those who have their organic position and, as organic, is the responsibility, from there on, where will they be used? Their responsibility is also their organic position. What about these employees? My second comment, Minister, is to do with Amendment No 222, which refers to specific officials from the "Creative Infrastructure S.A.". Reference is made to a final judicial decision and on the basis of it it is called upon to remain in their work or to return. I don't remember the wording. However, I have been informed that there is a negative suggestion from the Marios Ice, from the Court of Cassation, to which the case has been reached and which does not substantially accept the decision of the Court of Appeal invoked by my colleagues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. My request is to see if that really exists. I think my information is reliable. Actually, I want to say there's a loose end in the Arena Ice, I don't want to say that the negative suggestion is known. Only if there is a loose end in the Arena Ice and it is not an irreversible decision and it is simply a final decision, that an amendment should come today and intervene in this matter, I think it exposes us all. I would ask you, Minister, to evaluate these two amendments, the Ministerial and Parliamentary, to the extent to which I have put them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor to support the amendment on "Introduction to Higher Education" by the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment by the Ministry of Education's amendment concerns the conduct of the pan-Hellenic examinations, the Greek examinations, and particularly the professional high school, the PES and the graduates of Lefkada, the secondary and the general and technical schools of Lefkada. I want to say more specifically about Article 13 of the n. 41862013 that, in paragraph 1 of that article, candidates shall be considered in four courses - both PESA and general grades - of which the two courses have a weight factor of 1,5 and the other two courses have a weight factor of 3.5. These are determined by a decision of the Ministry of Education and published in the Official Journal of the Government. The examinations are carried out at a pan-Hellenic level, which means - and this is why this amendment is being introduced - that the commitment is being removed that the PSAs in particular, as has been done so far, are prioritised by intra-Schools and follow the entire Greek examinations. Now all the tests for both types of high school are carried out on a pan-Hellenic level. The second paragraph of the same article of this amendment states that all courses which have a common material are being examined. This means that the lessons of the PSAs, which have a common material - even if the title of the course or book is different - are considered with common matter. These two paragraphs apply to the school year 2015-2016. With regard to the fourth paragraph of the amendment, and especially for the year 2016-2017, for students and graduates of the general high school and professional high schools of the Lefkada Department of Secondary Education, who will apply for a declaration on participation in the Greek examinations this year, there is also a number of admissions to schools, departments, guidelines for universities, TEI, ASPATE and Ecclesiastical Academies. Let us stress here that it applies only to those who have enrolled - especially those who are in the Third Grade of High School or the Fourth Class of the ESDP - until 17-1-2016. I would also like to say that until we finish the statements - the students' requests, there is no definition of the way they enter or the number of importers, and that is why some will apply with the old system and some with the new one. So until applications are completed, the number of importers will not be determined. It will then be determined by ministerial decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a little comment on the position of the Minister yesterday - I mean his final position - where he referred to the fact that all previous legislative initiatives in the field of public administration and administrative reform were very fragmentary. Because I believe that there should indeed be a sober approach to public administration, but also to the mistakes, so that we can change things through the legislative work, I would like to say to you, Minister, that in public administration over recent years there have been major reforms, reforms that have remained, reforms which are now based on a large part of the operation of the state administration system, the wider administration. I will mention two basics: the ASA and DENMARK, which are both institutions that have walked, despite the fact that many governments have either wanted to shrink or weaken the dynamics of these two institutions. We must therefore agree that a reform depends on its functioning and its success in its implementation. That is why we proposed - and I come to the second point of what you said yesterday - that there should be greater consensus on what we are debating today and you have introduced with the draft law. Yesterday you said that the register was designed for the human resources of the public administration. First of all, of course. No one disputes that the register is coming to decrypt skills, skills, but also to be a large tank from which the public administration can draw its most skilled executives. On the other hand, however, it is precisely because this register is all about public administration, and it is about the staffing of positions which have an effective role in the operation of the state, and we are therefore coming back with our proposal to include people from both the private and the social sectors to a very large extent - that is necessary - but also from the elected local authorities. You also said yesterday that targeting should not be treated as an end in itself and that there is no assessment of persons through this draft law or by the law to be passed, but - I have noted this - service evaluation. Yes, but services preside over persons and these persons should be given the opportunity to be evaluated in a safe working environment. This is where we go through the specific articles you have brought, and I think we need to discuss at least the direction. In the second part, regarding the assessment, the arrangements in the draft law do not bring about any incision, in our view. On the other hand, they are reintroducing the logic of the 1992 Presidential Decree. In particular, the defined criteria are re-established and the process of the first and second assessor is re-introduced, while the Special Assessment Committee is re-introduced. In fact, here you are overlooking the need for an evaluation of the staff in relation to the requirements and description of the posts. Because this has to do with the reform of public administration, what does who do and what is it? You also overlook the danger - as we have said before - that the majority of civil servants are rated at high scores, precisely because we have a system that starts both above and below and somewhere conflicts in the middle. In Article 18, on the criteria and the evaluation procedure of the heads of the organic units, an anonymous assessment of the heads of government is introduced. Among other things, the Head shall be assessed for his individual targeting rather than for the degree of attainment of the objectives of the unit to which he is lead. It is what I told you before, that we are not just evaluating services. We also appreciate the ability of this one who is head of the service. This is a very important point because the possibility of subjective and possibly political intervention is embodied in order to weaken evaluatively and graduate specific heads of services and parts which are very limited. In Article 19, please adopt before completing the evaluation, without providing for the head of the interview to be trained. Despite the fact that the assessment of the achievement of targeting is a criterion, it is also possible not to score, as long as targets for the year concerned have not been set. In Article 22 on targeted action, the 2004 Act is repealed. Nevertheless, the proposed procedure for setting the targets, which reaches the officials for giving opinions, does not fundamentally change the law, which it abolishes, and shows a lasting sense of institutional communication for at least three months and with doubt most of the results. You have not avoided temptation in Article 23 to propose full-time workers to the directorates and departments as advisory bodies of the administration. Obviously, we are no longer in the 1970s or 1980s, so that the administration needs a parallel consultation mechanism, and even with the temptation here there are trade union substitutes. With regard to the third chapter, which refers to the rating and promotional system, it seems to us that your Ministry wants to be completely relieved of the executives who have exercised management and have experience and the interview returns with high moleculosis. The grading structure of the positions leads to the reintroduction of the pre-2011 situation. The rating returns to its oldest form and is finally disconnected from the wage bill, as was a fixed place of the General Accounting Office of the State, but the question arises is: What is the value of a payroll decoupled rating? The draft law provides for a payroll link to two points. The official will be judged as Head of Organic Unit in order to obtain a liability allowance and, secondly, to submit the application to the Executive Register and to place them in a position of responsibility again has a bonus. In both cases, however, I believe that we should reconstruct the structure, the architecture in the rating. I'll propose to you, Minister. Throughout the draft law, there is a head office of the graduates of the National School of Public Administration. We have set it up, we support it, I support it personally, because that is where the executives with qualifications for the public sector should come out. But it can't be that in every article. You can't lead this, if you want, for the public administration, to have the lead in any place. Do you know why? Because it will produce the same results as the negative figure beforehand. Previously, what did we do? We had canceled the National School of Public Administration. We canceled it within the hierarchical process of public administration. Now we put it everywhere. You know, overcrowding on the one hand has produced bad results, overcrowding on the other, I think, is in danger of canceling the whole project. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President, please. I want to talk about two amendments. I shall turn to the amendments, Mr President, which I think we should discuss in greater depth. The first amendment is the one brought by the Minister of State, Mr Papapas, and says that, in fact, for journalists working at the ERT, the RES and the General Secretariat of Communications, parallel work must be carried out upon authorisation by a respective service council. Sure, who says no? In any case, such bodies shall have government-appointed administration, appointed by the Government. They can therefore check and adapt them to those criteria. But you are now bringing an amendment which is intended not to tell us what the criteria are, but instead to predict that there will be criteria in the future. What for? To manipulate journalists who work in these services better, or to say, 'caution, the criteria that I will bring will be cut and sewn to the measures of some'. I think we should see this again. It does not favour a climate of consensus, a working safe environment. The second amendment that matters is as follows: the EOT is excluded from the register. I would say this to you and end with it, because I do not want to abuse time, Mr President. When the National School of Public Administration, for which there is so much reason - and I told you that I supported it - has a section of tourist policy and tourism administration, can you exclude the EOT from such a position? What for? You say that quite rightly in the explanatory statement. You exclude him because it will have to work in a competitive environment and that is where we need to draw executives from the private sector. Is the environment not competitive in other sectors of public administration too? Could you not have exactly the same logic for extending the register to the private sector, to the social sector and to the local authorities? Minister, I think we should recognise that there has been a serious willingness on your part to understand the amendments by the opposition parties, and I personally welcome that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Fotella from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech yesterday I used the well-known Varvaressos report since 1952 to show that public administration's problems have been on track. The current government has in any way undermined the reorganization of the public sector - and this is true - and the mistakes made by the previous governments. I would like to stress, however, the question of SYRIZA's good intentions for not building a party state, that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has not only improved the former regime, but continues to worsen the current situation. You have also proved this by means of the provisions you have had to withdraw - Articles 32, 41, 45, 48, 50 - under the weight of the outcry for the derogations from your existing legislation. So we directly question your good intentions in setting up a national register and in selecting those who are part of it, and we have explained our position that, with the transitional provision in Article 13, you will be postponing the implementation of the evaluation for the future, while at the same time filling up the public with your own people. There is also a way to proceed immediately with the establishment of the register and not to take place after so many months, as you have said, if, for example, you are using the database that you have from the Single Payments Authority, which is at your disposal. In addition, we have proposed that, in order to enhance the transparency and trust of citizens in public administration, the creation of a digital organisational chart, i.e. a public administration digital map, so as to prevent arbitrary inoculation of new departments in the administration to serve guilders following a Minister's decision. So proceed to an overall plan rather than 'blocks'. But of course you don't want that. With regard to the second chapter of the bill and the evaluation system for civil servants, our two objections remain, first of all, the absence of a coherent contour, as evaluation with a mere targeting criterion is, as I have said, an empty letter. You have not understood, Mr Minister, the difference in the targeting and position profile, because then you would understand that the present draft law does not provide for a constraint of positions. It also remains the second objection concerning those officials who will be assessed as inappropriate. We support the fact that, as long as the criteria and ratings are in place, there must be corresponding consequences. In the third chapter, on grading development and the promotion system, we recognise that its provisions improve existing regulations by motivating the truly worthy of them, based on their qualifications and experience. We have, however, heard nothing about the suspension of the relevant decisions on the promotions to 'DENMARK' as provided for in Article 25(6). Why, Minister, do you exclude the relevant promotional decisions from the 'DENMARK'? I'd like an explanation. In the fourth chapter, there is the need to have clear contours of positions. In addition, we would like you to explain why, under Article 29(4), only the Head of Directorate-General from the ban on selecting a head of any staff member who is automatically leaving the service within one year of the expiry of the time limit for submitting applications. The layout appears to be 'photograph', otherwise it should apply to both directors and divisions and not only to the Director-General. We also find it reasonable to hear the objections submitted by MOMOTEDY, the technicians of the public, who request that the provisions of Article 29(1) and (4) be amended and supplemented so as to avoid being excluded from the occupation of officials of PDO or TE by the occupation of heads of subsectors of relevant cognitive objects, if they have been selected following a decision of the Board of Directors. Finally, Article 29 would like you to consider the possibility of adding a provision to the placement of an undersecretary in detention stores, but following a choice from the relevant board. As I have said, there is no associated liability allowance, and the position itself is necessary for someone to be able to get after the sergeant's responsibility. On the fifth and final chapter of the draft law, which is the section with most of the articles - even after the withdrawals of articles you have made - we insist that it is an autonomous reason to vote against the draft law and, furthermore, the parliamentary procedure is a success when it passes such important provisions without any consultation. I do not deny, of course, that there are provisions for the benefit of certain categories, such as the successors of the 1997 SAAP, which we shall vote on. You withdrew - and rightly so - after the reasonable reactions of Article 32, because of the unconstitutional problems that this provision has, as Article 103(4) of the Constitution prohibits the transfer of a staff member without an opinion from a board of directors. The only marginal improvement in the article you have made is in Article 36 for the stay of the staff member for a further five years and until a maximum of 67 years has been completed. But there again, the Minister will decide every year to extend the pension, to constantly need him, not just once. Let the citizens hear this and draw their conclusions. The Minister will arrange every year who will remain in their profession and who will be retired. As I said yesterday, "they are too many votes, Christopher!" For Article 44, the implementation of the undergraduate programme envisaged, I would like to tell you that it could be responsible and should be the National Public Administration Centre, which has the relevant know-how and infrastructure and not the Ministry of Interior. I am going through the amendments because they are of great interest and some really show your intentions. I would like to talk about the amendment concerning the exclusion of the EOT from the application of the register. In other words, the board of directors will be appointed again by the Minister. Fire extinguish before the registry even starts to apply. The amazing excuse, however, is put forward, where I really raise my hands! While we were disgraceful, Minister, and many Members yesterday, about the so-called colonisation and the need not to complete the register from the private sector, you tell us in the explanatory statement that the EOT must adopt modern and private administrative methods. So EOT is another special thing? After recognising this need - I repeat what the previous colleague said - why don't you take private sector people who know the job, people who are part of a register and are evaluated, but you are once again resorting to the selection of all the members of the Board by assessing who is more relevant to the government? This derogation shows and what your intentions really are. After all, we have told you that transitional provisions and derogations from legislation betray the continuation of your statute. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for two minutes, Mr President. What do Members have to say about this abstract amendment? With regard to the amendment by Mr Papapas for journalists and the EDME, I have the following to note: With paragraph 2, the National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications will now determine that all the content of the broadcasts, i.e. all channels, state and private, will come to the state to create a Archive of National Audiovisual Memorial and that everyone concerned will be able to access them. What do you think we're gonna win with this? What's his reason for being? Maybe to make some friends comfortable again? Do you know that, if you attempt this, problems will arise from the developers of programmes due to intellectual property? In the ministerial amendment number 217, which relates to the system for the allocation of revenues from the auctions of unreserved greenhouse gas emission allowances for the period 2016-2020, the percentage of revenue going to the UN Special Account will be 60%. The previous version of Article 111 in the parallel programme was from 50% to 60%, since up to 10% would go to the energy-intensive industries. The percentage of revenue going to the energy-intensive industries is undetermined, as it will be determined by a ministerial decision. It can range from 0% to 40%. The previous version of Article 111 in the December parallel programme was up to 10%. Therefore, in the new version, the Minister, under the pressure of the energy-intensive industry, openly leaves the possibility of subsidising the industry with much more than EUR 20 million per annum provided for in the 2014 Ministerial Decision, Mr Maniotis. Only the pressure of the fair demand of local government I don't think Mr. Skourletis feels. By letter of 17-12-2015, five mayors of lignite regions have requested 20% of the revenues from auctioning of unused allowances to be channelled to stimulate employment in their area, as part of tackling the social impact of the transition to the post-lining era. It is also an encouragement for the European Union. So the crucial thing for us, Minister - and I close with it - and this will determine our vote, is to put in the Ministerial Amendment as a separate paragraph the request of the five energy municipalities that it supports. I note that our Member, Mr Amyras, has tabled a timely question on this subject, but of course he has never received an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Lightla.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute? I would like to address the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u47	Here you go, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u48	Minister, I would like to ask for something in relation to the amendments, because it is important. Minister, Mr Paradise is next to you and Mr Paradoxopoulos, who, in his bill - to the honour of Mr Paradoxopoulos - had asked, if I am not mistaken, for all the ministers who bring ministerial amendments, to come and sit down and support them, so that we can move on and know what happens to each amendment. That's what happened at the Justice Department in a recent bill. We ask you to do the same. You should ask the ministers to come here - there are many ministerial amendments, Mr Stathakis, Mr Papapas, Mr Tsakalotou - to support them in order to be able to discuss this. I am telling you, because you have accepted parliamentary amendments these two days from different parties, from New Democracy, from the JRC, from the Democratic Compact, which was not done on Friday in a previous bill. Therefore, because you are in the mood for debate, I would ask you to invite the ministers to support the amendments at the moment, otherwise we will not proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u49	The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Paradoxopoulos, has the floor to support an amendment to his authority. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law, as it is being introduced and discussed, contains provisions concerning the grading of officials' posts and the evaluation, promotion and selection systems. However, it does not affect the rules of the EC Treaty. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In view of the change that is currently taking place in the general regulations, there is a need to harmonise the Code of Judicial Staff with regulations which are being discussed today. In particular, the changes which we propose with the amendment concern Article 20 of the Code of Judicial Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u51	Minister, what is the number on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u52	The amendment has just been introduced, it has just been shared, but I do not see any number on the body of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u53	She's new.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u54	She's new, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u55	It is the amendment with a general number 259.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u57	We don't have it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u58	I've been informed that he's just shared, or I wouldn't take the floor, Mr. Carras. If it hasn't been shared, I can ask to be kept...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Carras, you must have her. He's shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I have here the list of amendments which have been distributed and which do not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u61	Okay. You'll be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u62	I've just been given it, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u63	Good. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u64	This regulation, therefore, ensures that the ranking of judges is harmonized with the general ranking of officials, which is being voted on today. In particular, the regulation of paragraph 3 of the amendment appears necessary in order not to delay the setting-up of the Services Councils, which are necessary to show the elected representatives. The provisions of paragraph 4 shall also be appropriate in order to carry out the ranking of staff of judicial staff to the degrees provided for in this amendment by the relevant Office of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. I must tell you that there has also been a debate with the officials, with their competent bodies and associations. Classification does not include any originality or something special. Staff shall be classified on the basis of their formal qualifications and on the basis of the time of their service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u67	But do you ask for the reason out of order? For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u68	I would like to speak for a moment, Mr President, on the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Education for Lefkada and the Lefkada TEIs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u69	Yes, but it is not provided for under the Rules of Procedure unless Parliament decides otherwise. Does the House agree to give Mr. Kavvada a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, we do not want this to affect the procedure, because others may be asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u71	You see there's no unanimity. The House decided by a majority to give Mr Kavvada just one minute, because that is out of order. Here, Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's been a minute already. I would like to thank my colleagues very much. Mr President, as a member of the Lefkada Parliament I would like to refer to the amendment tabled by the Minister of Education, Mr Friend, to the bill of the Ministry of the Interior which we are debating today. With this amendment, a request that I myself made to the Minister himself, but also to many Lefkada providers, and of course parents, is met. I refer to paragraph 4 of the amendment, with a general number of 218, and a specific number 3, on the subject of 'importations...'....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u73	What's the matter, Mr. Kabada? I'm asking why you only have one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u74	It's known. These children, Mr President, are not treated gracefully or in favor. They are children who have been hurt, they have been afflicted by the earthquake that hit the island last November.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u75	What's your point?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u76	That's what I'm saying. I want to thank you. They have faced and continue to face difficulties since the beginning of the school year with the buildings - that is what I want the House to hear, Mr President - and with the hours of teaching - because seismic vibrations have not stopped - and with the hours they want and must devote to their reading. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Minister of Education has shown understanding in our fair request. As a member of the Lefkada, I must acknowledge that, with the amendment you have tabled, these students take what they deserve as an earthquake. The right and well-burned must be said in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kavada.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. It just had to be heard in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Tasoulus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u80	The case of public administration, Mr President, is extremely serious and extremely disgraceful if one considers it to be a prehistoric attempt to correct it. In the rapporteur's report of this bill, there is a reference to the publication of Professor Macrytherios, which includes in a way all the studies that have been carried out and which have not been carried out, for the reform of the public administration from the proposal of Kyriakos Varvaressos to the first time 'tryings' - as the poet says - 'like the Trojans'. Today the deterioration of the situation makes this bill about trivial, about not relevant to the criticality of the subject and unbadly. It has some provisions which are of little interest and which we shall vote on. However, the main objective of the draft law is postponed until 1 July 2018. It is not the party to deal with the preparation of the draft law on the grounds of the report. What I mean: If you believe the institution of staff is worthy, let it apply from this summer and not from the summer after two years. Obviously, you want to endure with pre-services and positive ratings for those who are pleasing to you and who, having this dowry of pre-service, will be faced in July - and then - in a favourable way for them in the case of the executive. One of the same, without that being to say that the question of evaluation is lacking, where the flooding of excellent people and the issue of the rating, which, once it is not linked to the wage bill, will obviously be of little value. So we have a very bold and stumbled approach, and I would say, an attempt at administrative reform, which has a splendid phrase in the report, so splendid and so enthusiastic that it almost convinced us that you had good intentions. Indeed, the New Democracy would also be fully prepared, in the context of this consensual claim, to put a much more decisive back on it, even though they have nothing to do with it, I repeat, the forecasts and findings of the report with the text of the draft law. Even the issue of the Secretary-General of the Ministry - which you do not realize is primarily a political person - even the issue of the ideological exclusion of the private sector from its ability to contribute with executives to the establishment of the board of directors, all this shows that it is just a patient attempt - in relation to the size of the problem - to correct mistakes of the past. And with all this legislative dungeon - because this will take FEK tomorrow - you will find it difficult for those who will soon - I hope - try, in the process of the repealed provisions, to really reform the public administration. Basically, with this draft law you add repealed provisions to the future legislative reform of the public administration, which obviously should be much braver, much more extensive and much more radical. All this effort you are making - and which, obviously, will not yield, because even the ambition of July 2018 removes you from the possibility of implementing it - is within a grim reality for the country, which is a grim reality that is determined and influenced by two main factors. One factor is how unprepared you were to rule, but not at all unprepared to provoke elections and throw the previous government into half its term, which the sovereign people had commissioned it. The unpreparedness of your government term is not only seen in this bill, but above all in the panicky treatment of the refugee, which is now confined to transferring responsibilities and to the Prime Minister's enthusiasm that it solved the issue and convinced Europeans a few days ago. However, in the end, the deplorable announcement turns into a desperate complaint by the Minister of National Defence that the agreed ones are not complied with. There is no adherence to an agreement that was hasty - not to use another word - to dedicate to the sacred memory of the fallen of the Navy and which was dedicated to a sacred memory before it was concluded before it began to be implemented. And now that we see all reservations and all the knowledge that, as a country, we have for Turkey, were not taken into account when we thought that an agreement was reached and we see Turkey realising what is always doing in the Aegean Sea, that is, challenging Greek sovereign rights and Greece's right to search and rescue east of the twenty-fifth parallel, we are now astonished and starting complaints to the world public that we are victims. You're not victims! You are the government that has sought and succeeded in taking power and kneeling under the weight of the problems! So one part of your failure is due to unpreparedness. The other part is due to monstrous lies. That is the reaction of society, the reaction of farmers, the reaction of the productive classes, the embarrassment you have when you are facing a society that - in my opinion - believed in these monstrous lies and believed again and ceased in 2015. The government’s unprepared and monstrous lies, combined with the beastly problems, lead the country to a great dead end. And this impasse is not even dealt with by bills boldly and bravely in the area that concerns you, Minister, such as public administration. Public administration is problematic. However, it also has bright exceptions, and it has great breaks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Public administration has allowed the state in very difficult times to deal with the refugee issue after the Asia Minor disaster. Public administration has cared for refugees and also for ganggirls during the guerrilla war period. It was the public administration that succeeded and served with high-level officials to try and integrate the country into the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u81	Please, please, Mr. Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u82	There have been bright periods in public administration. Obviously, with this bill you do not add any light periods as the ambition to implement public administration. You add, Minister, some of the proposed provisions on the bill of another government, which will really reform the public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too. Before giving the floor to Mr. Athanasios, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, forty-eight students and students and two educational sessions from the 7th Elementary School of Gerakas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss democracy, public service by the best and other noble and universally accepted concepts as specifically mentioned in the rapporteur's report. Once again, however, this debate is a pretext because it is done in terms of SYRIZA. And I'll explain what I mean. First of all, let me say that none of the speakers - apart from the SYRIZA rapporteur and Mr Cooke from the government - mentioned the substance of the provisions and the consequences they might have. I do not want to say that it was not understood, but perhaps it has not been studied as it should be. That is why you will see that some of the basic provisions, such as Articles 32 and 48, following the debate in the Commission, were withdrawn by the Minister. But remember, Mr Lappa - and I am not talking about you in general - how much these provisions have been supported in committee. But today it was understood that they should be withdrawn. The ideas reports are good, but the issues that should concern us are the practical application and consequences of a provision. In the government's laudable tactics, therefore, behind its supposedly good intentions and declarations, absolutely undiminished and succumbent provisions are hidden for once. So, for anyone who goes a little further than the title of the bill and your government proclamations, noble values and proclamations go for a walk. I shall refer to some of them further, although our rapporteur, Mr Georgantas, has also been extensively mentioned. Secondly, in these noble values, the government that legislates them does not believe in the first place. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you are bringing to the House a bill setting out the way in which you define general and special secretaries, as well as other senior civil service officials, in a way that you consider to be merital. Yes, sir! Let's just say it's like that. Then why do you exclude your rule from this veil of dignity for which you celebrate? It is something that I have just pointed out in committee. Why do you not apply all these principles of the bill to the executives you have appointed yourself? Therefore, let those who come from the private sector be thrown away from the private sector and empty the rest of the positions for a period of six months, until the absolutely bureaucratic and, unfortunately, not at all inconsistent procedure that you are proposing. It seems your merits are only to be applied by others! You know this law is none of your business. "Let the next government come and try to implement a bad and practically inapplicable law." Is that your plan? Is that what you think? And when the next government, which of course does not have either SYRIZA or ANEL within it, will have to amend it - because, as I said before, it is also bad and inappropriate - you will be in the bars and complain about the alleged collapse of sovereignty. I say this for two reasons: firstly, to record and secondly, so that you do not think that the Opposition, but also the citizens, are eating spoon and do not understand what you are doing. Listen, ladies and gentlemen: we agree on the definition of an incompetent system for the definition of public administration seniors in the broadest sense, but with two very basic objections to the principle. Firstly, we believe that the Secretary-General's position is and must remain political. The Minister must appoint his closest partner to ensure that each Ministry's leadership can cooperate and be judged both for its choice as a whole for its work. Furthermore, as Article 6 of the bill states, Mr Minister, that is what it says, that it is conducting government policy, which has so far been the case. So I do not see why it should be excluded. Furthermore, a bad Secretary-General has a negative impact on the Ministry's work. However, no definition of the Secretary-General can be made only on the basis of how many formal qualifications he has. These are useful, but for this position further evidence is needed. The main thing, however, is that we cannot consider these positions to be just public sector officials and simply exclude the private sector. The private sector has executives worthwhile, knowledge-based. And many are innovation players. We cannot, when the country needs more than ever the osmosis of the private and public sectors, you propose a artisanal, bureaucratic model. Promote, Minister, the positions, and let them be the best. And when I say 'the best', I mean the objectively best candidate, wherever it comes, and not the best official. Now we go to the evaluation system, the rating and the selection of heads. In essence, it introduces false reforms, as they do nothing but restore the basic principles of older systems, which have been implemented and found to be failed. We have, in other words, a total reintroduction of concepts such as the evaluation of heads mainly based on formal and substantive qualifications, the evaluation of officials, where everyone will be judged excellent, quick promotions for everyone, inappropriate and utopian processes, targeted at general meetings of officials, not to forget that we have socialist governments! All this, ladies and gentlemen, has been implemented and failed. The main one? They brought the public into this situation. And instead of conducting a national dialogue on these changes, so that together we can decide how to make the public work better for the benefit of the citizens how the worthy can go and the unworthy do not keep the public administration behind, you bring a bill that returns us to your favorite decade in the 1980s. Then when money was there and socialism would bring growth and creativity. Ultimately, we all remember that it has brought unbearable debt and philosophical rule. And I move on to the period - the end of your bill, the other provisions of the last chapter. They are completely degraded by the philosophy that your bill says has. Can you explain to me, ladies and gentlemen, why the provisions were included - regardless of whether today, after the reaction we had in committee, they were withdrawn - under Rules 32 and 48? And we saw Article 48 in particular how passionate it was supported by some. And you did well, Minister, and we are pleased that these provisions have been withdrawn because they posed enormous problems. They were photographic and people referring to criminal offences, such as violation of duty and infidelity in the service - and I refer to Articles 226, 229 of the Criminal Code - they would remain intact, without control. That doesn't mean every one referred to is guilty. We respect the presumption of innocence. However, they had to be judged by the judicial authorities. However, in Article 38, which extends the deadline for the assessment, the AACC is omitted. Should the AACC remain in order to carry out the assessment as it existed until then? In Article 40, about those who were available. At the time of availability you calculate it as service time. Why is that? Article 25(3): Is there a re-uptake of those with false titles? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, just a minute. Finally, with regard to the targeting of the "KALIKARATI": In the targeting of the Local Government I and 2 Degree you abolished Articles 267 and 268(5) and 18 respectively. Why is that? Is that not unconstitutional when the self-sufficiency of local government is affected? Finally, I would like to refer to the amendments. In fact, Minister, we are not against the officials. We would have no objection to Amendment No 222, but you cannot therefore annul judicial decisions, it is unconstitutional. Let judicial decisions be brought to fruition, see what the Court of Cassation is going to say, and from there on you see with another piece of legislation how legislation can be made. It is not right to annul pending decisions and does not characterise the rule of law. Now, with regard to the amendment to which the Minister of Justice referred, because it is recent, it has too many issues, and it concerns the body of courts and judicial officers, we will be given the opportunity to see how we deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Your Honor. This bill, in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, is a follow-up to the arrangements of the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, which have as their main task the greater and more solid binding of the urban state to the needs and objectives of the great capital, that is to say, the development of the capitalist economy. This so-called evaluation system, introduced in this draft law in Articles 14 to 24, has nothing to do with the better provision of social services, with more competent civil servants or the elimination of the causes of explosive popular problems. It has nothing to do with the need for scientific, technical, professional support for workers, their systematic training, so that they themselves and the public services become modern and better equipped to provide upgraded social services for people's strata and youth. The argument of the fight against the pathogens of public administration, the elimination of communism, anxiety, bureaucracy, the political sub-system, as stated in the explanatory statement, is unfavourable. On the contrary, the Government seeks to ensure greater control of the State mechanism. Why? The effectiveness criterion in the assessment that the draft law introduces both in crisis management - here we have a question mark, because you still have not answered us what you mean by this crisis management - as well as by achieving objectives at individual and organic level from above to all the executives and staff in the areas and services of public administration, are intended to hide the essence of this administrative reform, the reactionary nature of the evaluation, the role of state administration officials and the perforation of the capacity-building argument. The above, together with the redefinition of the rating structure of the positions, which are linked to the development of wage scales and the new wage bill, categorize workers and affect low wages. In itself, it is proof that the new salary is not uniform since the payroll of all categories does not have the same introductory grade and therefore, objectively speaking, the salary is linked to the extent. In fact, the bill aims at a state which is more reactionary and more operational for monopolies, the promotion of competitiveness and entrepreneurship in the public sector - and we heard them a little while ago in this area, where the various 'floods' tend in this direction - and strengthen this competitiveness and entrepreneurship in the public sector, the privatization of property, which the people will pay for, the subordination and manipulation of public officials, their wage durability. As the National Strategy for the Administrative Reform of the New Democracy in the previous period, this draft SYRIZA - ANEL fully aligns with the European Union's 10-year development strategy ‘Europe 2020’. The so-called OECD toolbox makes a decisive contribution in this direction. At the time when governments clear out the funds of municipalities, hospitals and school committees, when they break people with taxes, carpets, wage cuts and pensions, they remove the right to social security, to medical care, to youth education, to preschool education for infants and children, to recreation, it is a challenge, especially in these circumstances, that the cost of evaluation should already be EUR 3.5 million and see. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, the Prime Minister himself, SYRIZA, who was coming out on the tiles, said and continued to say that the evaluation of officials and services will be based on objective indicators. Really? Who determines today what is objective? The people's needs for cheap and quality services, for full-time education, health, social benefits or the needs of capital for commercialisation, privatisation of social structures and services, for a state headquarters that will in any way serve capitalist profitability? We know the answer, we live it every day. In the present wildly exploited system, in the context of the European Union's wolf alliance, everything is subject to the needs of capital and hundreds of times are the European Union's directives for even greater, faster adaptation of public administration to the requirements of industrialists. Those who commit to walk this road mock the civil servants are pretending when they talk about another, good, unpunished assessment in favour of workers. Such has neither been nor can there be. The culture of the conception that there may be good, philosophical evaluation in class society is unscientific, unscientific, because it disconnects the assessment from the economy, the current capitalist relationships of production. And in order to put things in place, since some of us are wickedly asked: "that is, you are defending the status quo in the public sector?" the JRC not only defends this current public sector, but is fighting it. Anyone against evaluation does not mean that it is in line with the way the services of the urban state, which serves the competitiveness and profitability of capital, are operating today. It also does not mean that it covers those who have false degrees or are involved in other irregularities for which they are responsible have governments and administrations of municipalities. The position of the JRC towards this is quite clear. The choice of the current capitalist development path and the respective reactionary state mechanism inevitably form structures that adapt to the needs of those in power, i.e. capital. Therefore, the state, its administrative reform and, therefore, the evaluation, not only have neutral characteristics, but also work punishable and repressive, that is, class-class. Your assessment, like any assessment in the urban state, is neither good, nor objective, nor democratic, but it is bad, punishable, reactionary for people's interests. The linking of the evaluation to wage developments and the degree of achievement of the objectives of the staff leads to the reduction of wages and pensions, to the development of virtues, namely those subject to the European Union directives and to the requirements of capital. The evaluation leads to the intensification of work and no one can speak because it is painted. This may mean compulsory transfers for those rated from zero to twenty-four, i.e. they do not catch targets, which leads to redundancies. The interview that is being introduced actually drowns the other voice, freedom of speech and expression. Except if it expresses a different opinion based on an ideology contrary to the dominant one, since the criterion of good conduct, of crisis management - which you have not yet answered - is the defence of the Constitution and of the European idea as non-negotiable principles and key evaluation parameters. The propaganda and communication pattern of colonization and demilitarisation, the protagonist of social accountability, is used as a sex of figs to hide that the administrative reform of the government, not only does not cut, but on the contrary nourishes the umbilical cord of the state with the economy and politics of capitalism to adapt the state and working conditions of civil servants to the needs of capital. This is the state's greatest pathogen, and it's not healing. On the contrary, it's overturning. You strengthen the dangerous perception that has been created for the teachers, for the nurse, for the worker in the city's cleansing service that he is not working much, uncontrolled, he does not refer to anyone, given that some of the civil servants have managed to incorporate it into the urban perception of the state's role in degenerative phenomena, which the urban state itself has shaped and fed. The JRC - to conclude, Mr President - contradicts its own programming concept of state and administration, which is based on labour power, a new type of organisation of society and the economy with socialised means of production. It is such a popular authority that it will ensure and take practical measures to ensure that labour and general social control are exercised and that criticism of decisions and manipulations that hinder the development and strengthening of the people's economy. This is the highest form of democracy from bourgeois and above all ensures direct popular participation in the affairs of society. Power with new popular institutions is exercised from the bottom - from the people - upwards and not the opposite to urban democracy today. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. I must remind you that they are over fifty speakers on the articles. Most of them haven't been in the first place yet. You realize that a time violation means that many Members will not speak. Please, respect for time, which means respect for the fellow Member who is waiting to speak. Please. Now speaking time is eight minutes. We're going to have to limit time. At least, let's stay in eight minutes. Mr. Pratsol has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the outset, I would like to emphasise the lack of positions of opposition on this bill, which, of course, seemed to be the result of the suggestions made by the few members of the opposition who have been put in and will be placed for this bill. For decades, the distortive functioning and organisation of the public administration of the country has caused enormous damage both to the quality of service of our citizens and to our fiscal stability. The most unfavourable consequence, however, is the moral depreciation of this system which, in the consciousness of the citizens, corresponds to unreservedness, prudence and the service of purposes. The pathology of this administrative mechanism is the main regressive component that has contributed and accelerated the current crisis. Functional internalisation, customer relations, corruption phenomena, partisanism at all did not help defend and promote the public interest, which is the constitutional mission of the public administration. Instead, these degenerative phenomena have led to a crisis of identity, as the lack of substantial and structural reforms has substantially encouraged customer practices and the reproduction of malfunctions and distortions, which have often had the cloak of preformative reorganisations. The most recent of these, made by the current President of Officerial Reconstruction and then the responsible Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, instead of leading to a functional and aptitude state, intensified injustices, as the "assessment" gave rise to the hierarchical scale of best friends and excellence, considered a 15% inadequate, while exterminating officials with the status of available capacity, whose inevitable outcome was redundancies. This has happened on the one hand because of the ideological obsession for as small and cheap as possible and on the other hand because of the undoubted choice to protect and promote our 'our own children' once again. Such hypocritical and ruthless practices do not certainly make reforms. It is, at least, hypocritical and immoral - I would say - some of the Opposition to blame the current government for Rusphetti recruitment and family rule. Mercy, gentlemen! Just look at each other. There are even fourth generation Members of the same family, who of course also accompany an entire customer system, as you have set it up for years now. This draft law regulates in a uniform, systematic and comprehensive manner, evaluation, rating, selection of executives in connection with the establishment and organisation of the National Executive Register, which is an institutional innovation, which will fully change the traditional way of functioning the administrative system. The main pillars of the proposed reform project are: The National Register of Public Administration Officers, the evaluation system, the graduation structure, the system of selection of heads. The transition from the state to the state of the citizens is the great risk of the national register. In particular, there will be a requirement for those who are responsible for both the single-faced positions of management, i.e. governors, presidents, chairmans of boards and directors, and for the positions of members of collective bodies, i.e. the boards of these bodies. In addition to the existence of the register itself, however, it is the selection process that brings true intersection to the administrative matters of the country. The choices of persons are no longer uncontrollable, but through the Selection Special Council. The new evaluation system is moving to the opposites of the previous ones. It is structured in such a way that it is intended to improve the staff member, but also the entire service and does not have any punishment. It introduces new elements such as the assembly of officials, accountability and social control of public administration, and provides for the full development and evaluation of structures from their own citizens through the establishment of the Public Administration and Government Observatory. Finally, there will be an evaluation of the heads of existing criteria, and mechanisms of objections and review will also be in place to protect the person assessed by failures and arbitrariness cases. The proposed system of selection of heads develops a balanced architecture based on formal qualifications, experience, evaluation and, finally, interview. That is to say, the almost self-evident rule of administration's manipulation for the benefit of political and party pursuits. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the main part of the bill, it is worth mentioning the importance of some of the provisions. For many years the question of the successors of the 898 notice has been pending, who have waited in vain for their appointment by the previous governments. No government has bothered to restore these people, who were barely being bio-liquid. Therefore, Article 39 provides for the ranking of the successful ones in a new list of nominees, where by decision of the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction will be appointed gradually. By Laws 40932012, 41722013, 42502014 and 43162014 you have made available thousands of civil servants. Article 40 of the draft law restores the injustice of all those who returned to the service under Law.43252015 and the time with which they were under the availability regime is considered to be the actual service time and is considered for graduation but also for wage development. It restored the injustice created by Law 40712012, which exempted the Presidents of the Regional Councils from paying any difference resulting from the remuneration of the post from which they came. It is therefore added to the entitled increases in remuneration and to the presidents of the regional councils in the amount of the difference and to the level of the district manager’s remuneration if their remuneration is below all the remuneration of their position. I would remind you that the relevant issue had been settled for the presidents of the municipal councils with L.4147 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, to sum up, I would like to point out that the draft law we are debating today is a radical, progressive, administrative reform. It gives us the opportunity to lift the injustices that, due to purposes, created the systems that existed over time, build up a modern, operational and effective public sector and, above all, restore confidence between the citizen and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too. Mr Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for his protagonists and dentology together. Mr. Poppa, 12 minutes are enough for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u90	Yes, thank you. Mr President, we are talking about the draft government for public and public administration, which our rapporteur has rightly put in, analysing the reasons for our negative vote. It is a draft law, which in any case reinforces partyism in the sinful Greek public, whose pathogens go back to the time of baptism, and I mean Otto's baptism and not today, in order to avoid misunderstanding. In addition to this, however, the draft law is the procedure used by the SYRIZA Government to control the state, to create a party army of its own, which knows perfectly to be mutated, made from green blue, from blue pink and so on. So I would like, Mr President, to make some general political remarks on this point, which are also relevant to the positions of the political leaders who have recently been made regarding the country's timeliness and state. Mr President, the situation in Greece is now marginal. Homeland is now at real risk, at risk with the responsibility of the irresponsible detainees and the new order. The combination of unemployment, economic tolerance, to which the Greek people have led the three consecutive memoirs, presides us over what is to come, what we are going to live and see in the next few months. We need to be ready for the worst. At the same time, we must be - and I am talking about this to the Greek people - and I am determined to do so. The rural revolt has to be noted that it is going on. The unscrupulous farmers, the national thinking farmers with Greek flags on the tractors, give the race "paros" to the blocks and are determined to continue until the end, without falling into the television trap of the meeting in Maximos, in which Mr Tsipras during his friendly tactics, imitating the methods of Andreas Papandreou, said much, without basically saying or promise anything. The major issue for Greece, and in particular for the rulers in particular, is the question of evaluation, to which the government has fully failed. The government, however, as has completely and completely failed in the question of evaluation, has failed in the so-called refugee. The previous memorials, the previous catastrophic years and, in particular, the recent 2015, brought our country to the tarts of depreciation with capital controls, with the threat of Grexit, with the result that it is not in line with the historical history of the Greeks, our country, in an even more burdensome memorandum, the poorly called "the Memorandum of the Left". Because everyone knows that this memorandum in August 2015 was passed by the so-called opposition New Democracy and by all the forces of the so-called 'constitutional arch', except Golden Dawn. And even though everyone would have expected the moment of negotiations on the Memorandum - the agreement, as you say it - to advance migration - and to note that since spring 2015 it was inexhaustible - to have a weapon for the refugee to achieve better conditions in the evaluation and, in any case, to have a debt relief or a reduction in the large claims of creditors and interest rates, we have reached today in the raw reality which shows us that with the responsibility of the first left, and also of the neoliberal Right, we have led to a situation much worse than the previous ones. We have arrived, ladies and gentlemen, at the point where creditors clearly want 50% reduction in pensions, behind the scenes, to hear that Europeans are looking at the solution of disgrace, the prolongation of the debt without a reduction in interest rates, that is to say, the implementation of the ordinary Baroufaki on an eternal debt, a politically disastrous policy, which will lead our children to our homeland, the future of our country, to a hostage in Brussels and will make it an endowment to the economic and other policies of European and American neo-liberals. And while all these negative, difficult, the government with the Minister of Ms Katrugalou, but also with the Prime Minister himself, insists that there will be no reduction in pensions. The insurance bill, you know it's on the air. He is constantly postponing his statement and his vote. The reduction in pensions is considered by the Government to be a ‘red line’. Let me not fall, as normal would be. But all of us Members of the Golden Dawn know, like the entire Greek people, what'red line' means for Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] In the refugee sector, instead of Greece doing the absolutely natural thing, what other states in Europe do, what the states that are not in the European Union, such as FYROM, are doing, namely closing its borders, setting strict conditions at the entry of refugees, paradigm immigrants - I am using this variant of the term 'lathing immigrants', which you have invented - has left its territorial waters unreserved. Greece has become an immigrant parking lot. It has turned into a vast camp, into a hot spot of refugees. And, Mr President, it is not the expression'refugee park' that is heavy to raise some'sensitive' and say that it should be deleted from the Minutes. I heard a short time ago on a radio show, a journalist who presented and treated Greece - listen - with Europe's'refugee bucket'. We have reached the point where public opinion leaders, relatives of excitement to politicians, have made clear in television news reports that the country is an endless hot spot. So said the well-known telephoonist, to complete - I carry his words in introductorys - the composer in the news report and ask himself: 'The army did not go out to Paris? And here's something to be done. Let us also show in Europe that the country is being kept. In this they are more organized in Skopje. To ask the Army. It is now a matter of national security.’ This is where the average citizen will ask himself: why all this? Does the deadlock that our country will have in the next few weeks suited some domestic, but also abroad, another parentheses, a memorial tomb tomb tombs and defenders of Europe, NATO and democracy? And while all this is happening, Mr President, we have the complete exclusion of the third political power of the country, of the Golden Dawn, both from the media and within this Parliament itself. It's not strange, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that you're fighting us shows us and it's another proof that we're on the right track. And you can be certain that the Greek people understand this, who, despite the well-established polls, thickens the ranks of the People's League, the nationalist movement. I experience it in my contact with the world, the neighborhoods, the shops, the folk. I am referring at least to Attica, because as you know, the head of the Athens Prosecutor's Prosecutor, the under-regulated and controlled, also known as "Athensiakis", Mr. Doyakos, continues beyond all reasonable, unconstitutional, to carry out the preconceived decisions of the protector of Antonis Samaras and continues to have - listen to me! - within Attica. On this point, Mr President, I would also like to make a proposal, which may be about the Rules of Procedure, but much more about the possible revision of the Constitution. I would like it to be decided - and I am making the proposal - that a reasonable and necessary change should be made as far as the prime minister is concerned. I take this opportunity because I read an editorial by the publisher of a large weekly newspaper, which gladly wrote: "Samaras was facing serious psychological problems over time." Therefore, Mr President, a health certificate should be issued for ministers and Prime Ministers, as for other civil servants, to be passed by psychologists and psychiatrists' committees, subject to psychological and intelligence tests. Following that result, it may nominate any person interested in the High State function of the Parliamentary Republic. I would remind you, Mr President, that the unfortunate or, if you wish, the happy inmates of the Drokaite and the Daphne have not lost their right to vote and stand for election. In fact, the first party in Drokaete came the New Democracy, if I'm not cheating, and the Daphne Psychiatric Hospital came SYRIZA. Absolute bipolarism - and take it in whatever sense you want, either politics or medicine. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. I see, however, that the Bureau has changed. Hello, Mr. Kaklamani. Right now I'm talking to you, Volos is building new hosting centers. Is it a gift from the new Minister to her neighbors? "Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Aegean Sea, in Greece you are actually bringing Mr. Fuchtel, a best friend of Ms. Merkel, who will control my country, to control democracy. I know, you've been subjected, you've worshiped. You want to shove everything you can from the scams and scams you do, but you don't have the right. There's a Greek flag here. This country has a parliament and a democracy." "My position, which I have been expressing for many years, for the creation of a reception station, is 'no' to a reception station. Where a reception station was set up, the flow of immigrants from the other side increased. There is no record of the islands. I.D. on Kos means that, where they find him, in six months, they'll bring him back to Kos. Do you want Kos to take the responsibility for identification? But don't you finally understand? And for Rhodes, to God, there's no record there. It is the end of the island.’ "They have a plan, which they have executed. They are to put Greece into the cork that they built along with the bankers of the Memorandums. They had a specific plan, and it was executed by the deceivers along with their accomplices. We did not sign a Memorandum, we did not send any letter, which we promised would deliver our homeland. They're traitors of the country. And the traitors in this place don't have tomorrow. We shall inform them, to prepare their planes and their helicopters.’ The above were, ladies and gentlemen, three passages from speeches from the government partner and empathy of political cubisms, Mr Panos Kammenos, the theatrely easy-to-do Panos Kammenos, for designations within the famous Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs. However, they are characterisations which he himself has caused, with his nationally dangerous and irresponsible attitude, with a view to developing and not answering the key questions of the Golden Dawn. Perhaps Mr Kammenos will be satisfied personally if I say to him by lying to him: you are not a traitor, Mr Cammene, but you are a great liar and very dangerous to national interests. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is nationally dangerous. The only choice and hope is a national government for the people, with the axis and programme of the Golden Dawn programme, up-to-date, as this will be presented at the Eighth People's League Conference at the end of March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u91	First of all, to avoid complaining that I left two minutes more to Mr. Papapas, Mr. Papapas, Mr. Pafilis, Mr. Papachristopoulos and Mr. Dimitrios Karras did not speak yesterday. Then they are entitled to speak two - three more minutes today. Again, the House has a benefit, as instead of twelve and eight minutes, a total of twenty minutes, they speak for fourteen minutes, so we are earning time to speak more Members. I say this so that I do not hear any complaints because I will leave two or three minutes more than the other Parliamentary representatives. That's the one. The second is that, in agreement with the President of Parliament, we will proceed quite well today, and it is likely that, if not that the list is exhausted, many Members will speak, because we will probably have talks with the Heads of State or Government. So today's meeting will be held. So don't be nervous about that. Thirdly, despite the fact that Mr Vernardakis is here alone and does not concern him with what I am about to say, because he is the Minister responsible for the ministers who have said to speak, because they have nothing to say about articles, except amendments, time, in consultation with the President of the Parliament, will not be more than three minutes. In fact, they are amendments which the Minister has already accepted. However, they have the right, if they want to support it or clarify it, to speak. But the eight minutes for them to be forgotten, so that we can also save time in favour of Members who have been registered as speakers. Finally, as I do not have the opportunity to speak, I want you to record and listen to this, Minister. I heard a lot of things yesterday against local government and my colleagues. But that's not the way it is. I do not share that view. Those of us who have been through local government know that there are contractors who really meet fixed and permanent needs, and in fact in municipalities who now have undertaken to do work that the state has to do - particularly in the social sector - and I am very afraid that this article wanted to improve and not withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u92	Are you referring to Article 48?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u93	Yes, I am referring to Rule 48, Minister. He wanted improvement. Let's make it a final decision, reach second grade. And because people are watching a House, we must say that the mayors have never decided on the conversion of contracts. Judicial decisions said whether or not the workers' contracts in the municipalities should be transformed. It was just a criminal offence and a violation of duty to the extent of a felony if the municipality did not go as a civil action. That was actually going away with Article 48. It's my personal opinion. I know my party has a different view, but I wanted it to be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, may I take the floor for three minutes, to explain on this occasion too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u95	Yes, you have the floor for three minutes from your position. You kept last night. I'm giving you today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u96	On the occasion of this comment you have made, I would like to clarify a few things because there has been a great debate. There has been an extensive debate in the relevant committees. First of all, we have Article 32. I'm starting with this. Article 32 states that in the context of the same Ministry and its supervised bodies a secondment procedure can be carried out - obviously voluntary secondment or voluntary, in any case, placement of the official - to cover certain exceptional needs which exist in the Ministry's structure. This article was criticised, from the point of view of its first decision of the Minister. We corrected that. But there was a second, more sensible view, because the time has passed - that would be useful to us in early January, and now we have the Mobility Act - to return to the Mobility Act. This is not a withdrawal that is definitive. It will return to the law on mobility, in a more institutionalised and more transparent way and always with the consent of workers. And I hear there's a lot of talk about this. Article 33, for which I think a speaker from the JRC spoke, I would like to say this and clarify it, so that we know what we are talking about: we are not talking about the abolition of transfers or the abolition of organic posts. There's nothing like that. What do we got? We have old ASAP competitions. In other words, we have people who have the right to be appointed. Since, however, many years have passed and these people are undetermined, but have been potentially integrated into some bodies, the state must have the right to be able to do so, making an assessment of needs and if they want - the appointing body does not change - if it is proposed to them instead of the court to go to a social structure, for example the Ministry of Health. I am talking about the old AACC competitions, which have established the right to appoint.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u97	Let the article then be formulated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u98	But I don't think that's the way it is. I read it and reread it, and I can't understand why the misunderstanding is going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u99	In conclusion, I will make a proposal to you on this subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u100	The appointing body, including in tables of nominees of the AACC and the bodies, etc., may, upon a substantiated request, change. That's what he says. He's saying it clearly. I shall refer to Rule 48. I am pleased with the President's point of view. Others will be placed. There has been an extensive debate. It has been withdrawn so that it can actually be improved by law and that we have no objection to issues of constitutionality or to issues relating to other bodies. There were other bodies, other than ETAs, who had this problem. It is a big issue that needs to be considered. That is why we asked for the assistance of the Ministry of Justice, as I think any man should be able to hear the objections and the observations, and he must re-election, precisely so that there are no issues of constitutionality. It will come back, but in a way that will be accepted, having been discussed with the courts, with the people involved with public administration and, obviously, with full transparency here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u101	I think it's a satisfactory answer. I would recommend to you - it is your concern - that you call to your Ministry one day in charge of the sector concerned by all the parties and sit down to make all three articles as they must be made. I think there is no empathy from any party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u102	He's taken the Justice Department's initiative on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u103	Good. Okay. Even better. So when you make them, bring them back, after you get in touch with all the parties. There's no party he doesn't want to do business with. We move on to Mrs Aylonite, who knows very well from a timer, as for tenths of a second, or she would take gold or not. I therefore believe that it will be consistent in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, all Members of Parliament have the same time as previous speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u105	I don't know about previous speakers. But I explained why the four non-speaking parliamentary representatives will have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u106	I am referring to Members, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u107	Yeah, I don't know about speakers. Let us return to our time, because they are fifty-four today to speak. It is therefore appropriate to speak as many colleagues as possible. You're prejudicing me to be elastic with you. Here, Mrs. Alonitou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I come from local government, I fully share your view on Article 48 and we are all waiting, Minister, for a next bill to bring it back. Today's bill, which concerns public administration in relation to transparency, democracy and efficiency, is perhaps the most ambitious cut in public administration in recent years. Yesterday, in listening to Mr Georgiadis, I really solved all my questions because the New Democracy and the PASOK used the anti-constitutional method for evaluating public officials. The man clearly told us, and I have no reason to question it. He was completely honest. They were incapable of carrying out the assessment procedure in terms of justice and the right way. On the contrary, we are perfectly able to do every crisis, every assessment of transparency, in terms of democracy, in terms of justice, in terms of efficiency. Mr Georgiadis continued to analyse his ideological approach yesterday, analysis, explanations why he wants less public. Because that would help to alleviate citizens' taxes. And I say that Mr Georgiadis was led by a large part of the public sector, the important public health sector, which managed to minimize him, shrink him, collect him, make him a toothpaste, and, anyway, make him invisible, if not dismantle him. It is right to ask the following question: why has this not accompanied the citizens' relief in terms of their taxation? Moving on to my mind, I am beginning to understand why the New Democracy did not want this cooperation with Mr Borgians, who offered to help the country, to provide know-how in order to locate tax-raisers, to combat tax evasion, so that the country could obtain more revenue and not have to go back to taxing citizens or reducing the social state. Because the New Democracy deliberately wanted to dismantle the public services and, above all, wanted to dismantle public controls, the taxes of the country, the Economic Crime Corps, so that there would not be a sufficient number of executives, a sufficient number of auditors, in order to make those necessary investigations, to take endless time to make those cross-checks needed to cover its 'own children', which have undeclared, unexplained, arrogant statements abroad, such as Mr Papastavrous, who wanted to clone him. To this end, this bill distinguishes very well between the requirements of conscientiousness, the performance of the duties of all civil servants and the increased requirements of administrative capacity at the top of the public administration. It attempts to ensure the transparent, reliable, unmistakable choice of the people who will serve the top public administration positions, with the ultimate aim of maximising efficiency. This bill attempts to do everything we always welcome in words and we forget in practice. The first of these aims is to record the civil servants who are qualified by enrolment in the National Register of Officials of the Public Administration. The register shall be entered in the register on the basis of criteria of study and professional experience. You have been automatically convicted, so that the unacceptable phenomenon does not happen again in the future, that people who have been convicted of serious offences will be taken into account. The last two evaluations are then taken into account, because the qualifications of each candidate are concerned with the present, it is not only a matter of historical interest. Those who fulfil these conditions may nominate for public service duties, general secretaries, substitutes for general secretaries and special secretaries. The selection of candidates is not made by the Government, but by the Special Executive Selection Board, set up within the framework of the AACC. The Special Executives Selection Board shall assess the candidates and select three of them, of which the Minister responsible shall select and appoint one. The members of the administrations of legal persons governed by public law and private law shall be chosen by a corresponding procedure. All these executives are appointed for a term of four years, with the right to only one renewal. In the case of legal persons governed by public and private law, the possibility of placing persons not serving in the public sector is also provided for after publication of an expression of interest. There are therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the people who will serve the basic public service, and each minister cannot appoint where he wants, even his gardener, as the king previously deserved, and as he has continued to do for decades to do various retreats of the old political system. The evaluation process is still being introduced on objective terms. In our bill, the legislator does not make Pythia, arbitraryly defining how many employees have to be cut, because that's how he likes it. On the contrary, objective criteria and an evaluation procedure are set by reasoned assessments. The two-way evaluation is still foreseen, as not only is evaluated by their supervisor, but also by the current supervisor. There is also a procedure for objections of the assessor before the Special Assessment Committee. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, a targeting process of the Office is defined, on the basis of which the evaluation will then be carried out. The aim of the evaluation process is not to punish anyone, in order for each Minister to make the beam, nor is it our aim to prosecute political opponents or reduce costs by dismissing. As it is not our goal and to create positions for our own assignments. Our aim is to create effective and operational public administration with respect for the citizen and the law. This objective, ladies and gentlemen, has been dragged unfulfilled since the Kapodistrias era. There have been times in our country flashes of administrative excellence but also deep pieces of partisanism, localism and rupturedness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u109	But close it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u110	I'm done. There are still few people in this Chamber who give the problem to geography, saying it is the Balkans' fault. Others render it in history, saying it's the Ottomans' fault. But if we really want to see...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u111	But, Mrs. Alonitou, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u112	I shall end in ten seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u113	I'll give you thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u114	So if we really want to see what the problem is and who is to blame, let us put a large mirror in this Chamber, because it is our fault and those who have been in this Chamber before and who are to blame for the time that everyone's party has remained in the government. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today's bill has all those characteristics of the major legislative initiatives. It's ambitious, it's optimistic, it's unfamiliar. I really invite you to do something good for this place. It is good to vote for it, to vote in favour of the whole matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u115	Mrs. Anastasia Gara has the floor. My position is well known for Mrs Anastasia Gara and Mr Giannis Kefaloyannis - who, on behalf of all the colleagues, we are conducive to the death of his father yesterday - that I will always give them, when I am in the Chair, one - and a half more, because they are pulling what they are doing in the votes. You have the floor, Mrs. Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. I guess I'll be consistent in my time. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me not to comment in detail on the articles, although the debate is taking place on the articles, because from the entire debate I have seen that there is a structural dimension of what public opinion wants. I understand that many of my fellow Members fear changes in this country, fear to change the existing status quo. So today we are having a debate about the public, a public that is in our daily lives and plays the word and meaning on our lips constantly. Well, it's public! A concept that creates positive thoughts for most of our fellow citizens, public good, public system, public education, public health. This is a concept which refers to common possession, to what we all share and we all defend. If, of course, the lens of our thoughts in the Greek word public starts to create negative concepts: chaos, aggregations, signatures, delays, incomplete service, stacks the files, references, walks from office to office, bureaucracy, "freakers", "barbas in Koroni", "multi" and much more known. I think our country's artists have described the public scenes and the existing system in cinema, the theatre, music and literature. Thus, a positive concept of the public and a public administration tool that should be accessible, friendly and helpful to all citizens has become tough for all of us. 'Oh, don't get in trouble!' is one of the most frequent phrases that characterize the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the causes are well known for this situation. The public administration system grew together with the party system in the country and served on party criteria. The MP was judged and elected by how many appointments he made in public. Party armies were built for a post in the public sector. Only an evaluation criterion was the Member's mandate to upgrade heads. On the other hand, the service of the citizens was directly dependent on the relationship of the MP or the party leader of each region. How many cases have been left in drawers for months and years because a Member has not pushed them! Different speeds and service, party or class. Whoever had money and was "scratching" did his job. Whoever didn't give the halve under the office, his file was lost from one office to another office and we were all looking together to find the files. So party spoil is the public for our political system with victims, unfortunately, of consistent and moral citizens. At the same time, citizens often face a public indifference, without specific responsibilities, without motivation, without passion for work and improvement. A huge human-powered system with specialized knowledge many times, which is mostly placed in wrong Services. Ladies and gentlemen, most of us are talking about reforms in this country, we are talking about the need to modernise, defend and upgrade the quality of the state. Here, then, is a section in the public administration system: in my own mind the public sector in a state and its services must be a guardian of social values and work for social cohesion. It must be a system of production by making use of the right people in the proper positions. We should introduce innovation, introduce actions to help citizens from a distance and make a more friendly public system to citizens. It must also be an attractive system for its employees. To motivate more productivity and to exploit each other’s knowledge and skills. Furthermore, it must be a structure of adequacy, armored by the complexion and the misassis, a structure that will protect its own people, but also create a system detached from any party intervention. On the other hand, I would personally like a public system of modern, helpful and fair. I would like services which will not be a brake on the implementation of private initiatives, investments and studies. A system that tackles and serves citizens with equality, justice and knowledge, a system that is impartial and, above all, productive. And if all of this sounds like a dream or an exhibition of ideas, in our hands it is to do so. It is in the hands of the parties that have ruled and caused the state to be partisan of the state to degrade their own political practice. It is up to us to implement immediately the legislative and institutional initiatives that we shall be voting on today. It is in the hands of public officials to help improve the public administration system, it is in the hands of the citizens to claim a productive and worthwhile system, and, finally, it is in the hands of all of us to work for a great intersection and a reform for the benefit of all of us. Are we ready and willing to cut the party gordium link to the public administration system? Are we ready to shield the state from being involved, but in practice? Are we ready to create a better service environment for citizens and also for new investors, who so much want to invest and create in that country? You years, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, have made yourselves comfortable and fuel your existence from the current situation. You are now giving us the task of not applying these regulations quickly. Why didn't you do it all these years? So we are ready and determined. We are ready to correct all the bad texts in this country, committed to making sectoral and reform reforms for modernising the state, for protecting society, for the benefit of citizens. We are ready and determined to set strong foundations to get the country out of the crisis and to move to a time of social justice and development. We're determined with the people to turn this page. And today's bill is another page of SYRIZA's parallel program. And there are still many pages to be returned. And hand to turn the page, the people will put it on. Are you ready? So are we ready to put the knife in the bone? Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u117	My colleague, you're done before your time and I didn't have to do you a favor. Thank you! Mrs Karasardou now has the floor, and then I will give the floor to Mr Carras, to Mrs Dritselli, and then to Mr Pafile, who also did not speak yesterday. Here, Mrs. Karasardou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a deep section on the modern Greek state, the draft law on transparency, deserved democracy and efficiency in public administration. The bill aims to manage human resources throughout the public sector. Basically, it responds to the strong need for change and reforms. It is a historic innovation, in addition to the establishment of the IASC, and it is the result of a genuinely open and wide consultation with continuous discussions and contacts with all stakeholders. The main pillars are: First, the establishment of the National Register of Public Administration Executives. Secondly, the implementation of new regulations concerning the evaluation system for officials and the targeting of the agencies. And thirdly, the introduction of a new system of grading promotion of officials and the selection of directors of organic units. In particular, the register will be a pool of executives and will cover positions of Secretary-General, Deputys, Presidents, Legal Administrators of Public Law, posts which, as a government and party feud, were still assigned by appointments from the respective government and which were cut off from the next one. This unacceptable practice of all previous years is intended to combat this regulation. Our aim, namely, is to create an open list of capable people, regardless of party and ideological criteria. The selection of directors will be made by means of mobilisation, and they will be appointed as a result of a decision of the Minister and after the opinion of a Selection Special Council to be drawn up. The bill provides for a four-year term of office of executives, with the right to renewal only once, that is to say, a maximum of eight years. Another change that comes concerns scientifically documented evaluation, which will be done transparently and with a view to real improvement in public administration. The evaluation will no longer be a mechanism for exiting staff from the public sector or an alibi for administrative and institutional inertia. On the contrary, it will be a useful tool to highlight the advantages and treatment of the weaknesses of public services. From the impunity and terror regime we are creating a regime of participatory and productive development. There is an end to the deliberate undermining of evaluation, in its transformation, that is, in an indirect way of extortion. The fact is that there has been a huge mismanagement of the public sector during the previous governments. The current President of the New Democracy as Minister for Administrative Reform was the most loyal follower of the traditions of the party state. It has removed all the heads of public administration in order to appoint by non-transparent, non-objective procedures the ones he has chosen. The need to change attitudes to all of us is imperative. We need to understand that we do not belong to anything, we are just managers and, the better we do our work, the more the state will benefit and therefore the citizens will benefit. Conflicts and excesses need to be made so that the political system leaves the steadfast that has followed in recent years, namely the logic of the prefecture of power. Our aim is to decommission and not to decentralise public administration. The regime of party and family rule refers to third world countries and not to a country belonging to the hard core of the European Union. The aim of the bill is, therefore, to ensure transparency, science in evaluation and to end the stereotypical perception of non-productivity in the public sector. The bill will allow large groups of people, who had not been identified with party and customer dependency, to highlight their skills and actively participate in the creation of a modern public administration. Because this is the model of our understanding of relations between the state and the citizens, because it is a matter of guaranteeing transparency and dignity, because we demand that the top-level and standard qualifications of the heads of state be guaranteed, and because only through the list of executives can the state gain an institutional memory. So let us refrain from the perpetrator's management. Let us do our utmost for the real improvement of the state. We don't have any more time to spend. That is the real responsibility we have to take. And we take it as hard as it is, with or without the Opposition. I should like to address my colleagues in the Com mittee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. We hope you don't stay spectators. We want you to tackle the chronic problems and deadlocks that have been created in this place. Let's give our country a new breath. I hope we all need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Carras, you have the floor. I've been putting you all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. So we're coming to see the bill. Reading the explanatory statement, as everyone who wants to enlighten a draft law, is starting to see an ambitious mood. It calls for the Varvaressus report to be started. Kyriakos Varvaressos is well known, known for his economic course and the conditions he set then for the development of the country. He said, therefore, that we should rely on agriculture, the primary sector, to develop it, so that in a second stage Greece and an industry will then have a seat. I fear, however, that this wish of Varvaressos could not be achieved. We are in 2016 and farmers have not yet developed their sector, have not been supported by the state and are out on the road. Can we talk about an industry? Is the industry a success? We have a Ministry of Development. We have State Secretary for Industry. We must, however, say that five months in this Chamber something about industry, because the country is being demanded, we have not heard. So let us stay in the Varvaressos report on public administration issues. Let us leave to one side what he was talking about about the economic development of the country. Well, public administration. It is well known that we have a pluralism in Greece. It is well known that we have a Code for Public Administrative Officer Status. At least I remember the first approach I had. It was the old code of 1953. We see that at times it changes. We see that provisions are repeated. And a draft law is coming today, which tells us that we will be setting up an executive register of public administrations. Sounds good to me. But it's been moved for three years. However, we see that those who record come from the public sector. It's just that a lot of things are recycled. And in the end, he tells us something else: that the Minister will choose from the three-person. It's like choosing metropolitan over the old times from the three-person, suggested by the Holy Synod. And I'm going to make this historical regression, so we can remember earlier periods. There was the three-faceted metropolitan candidates. What did that mean? That they suggested to the king three candidate metropolitans and through the government representative, who controlled the Church, chose and came out of the royal decree. So do we even get to the same extent from the three-person who you propose from the executive register that the Minister chooses and acquires a greater authority? We have expressed our opinion that the provisions, the body of the law, are not going to be voted on, not only for what I have already pointed out, but for another reason. We consider this to be unreasonable. It comes today and says it will apply after three years. During the debate in the committees, I expressed my reservations. After the government says it will bring in a register of executives, why does it maintain the Secretary-General? He had the kindness, the kindness of the minister to answer. He told me that the Secretary-General is a hybrid form between public administration and policy. Let me take it. So, if we maintain the Secretary-General, we are not leaving the register of directors, which is more limited to other categories. I don't want to insist on that. A great deal has been said, we have discussed, I have also expressed my opinion on the committees. For the next two chapters in the bill on rating, evaluation system, promotions, we do not feel that they add anything. What I have heard, especially from the majority Members, was in the sense that they expressed the view of the majority, that the bill must be passed, but in my view - if you will excuse me - they have not added that breath, which both the explanatory statement and the good colleagues of the Cooperative Group have wanted to give to this bill. I see it, dryly, technocratically, if you like, that it is a repetition of past regulation and may extend some powers of the Ministry or of Ministers. It doesn't matter. We're moving on to another issue. During the debate in the committees there have also been questions of a number of provisions other than those of the bill, which I described - if you like - are services. I was not good at this, perhaps, but unfortunately the proof, which comes today with the withdrawal of provisions - I have heard the Minister's view that it will bring them back - and in particular Article 48, means that something was wrong with this. I will say something else on this point. I therefore insist that there are and are concealed intents in provisions which are scattered in the last chapter, in the so-called 'other provisions' of the law. I will give an example to the Chamber. We discussed the so-called 'parallel programme' yesterday in the sense of speeding up the government's work. I objected in particular to an article on the felonies of the hereditaries. That embroidery, which led to those who had been referred to as a felony on temporary holidays, was eliminated until they were tried out. I asked, then, then, - and Mr Lappas has commented on it - to say that we are talking about service crimes. But that was not accepted either. Nor did the government accept to be put on holiday people accused of felony and proceeded with it and removed this possibility of putting the holiday. I mean, it's outside this bill, but it matters to the arrangements that are coming today. Why does it matter? For, when one is referred to as a felony, it means that it is irrevocable to refer him to him either by irrevocable counsel - and I speak of the hereditaries - or with an irrevocable quorum in which he has exercised the wrongful means and has been rejected. We therefore see that there are efforts to serve. We also have the other issue in this bill: the orchestra of the amendments. I have a list in front of me. Nine ministerial amendments have been recorded and I see two more, which came after and are not on the list, so eleven. I also have a list of Members' amendments which are indeed trying to improve or, in any case, to help some social groups. I see, then, eighteen amendments of which, if I am not mistaken, most will be accepted. It doesn't matter. So this well - known maliciousness continues. We find a bill, the government has ready-to-date amendments - in the medium to long term, it does not matter - and it brings them forward and puts them, regardless of the law's trunk, regardless of philosophy. This is where I'm gonna complain, and I'm gonna say it. Yesterday a matter was raised. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken an amendment which, at first sight, seemed useful to me to appoint special interpreters - let me call them that - or specialists in foreign countries to speed up the work - outside the European Union and Schengen obviously - of issuing tourists' visas, especially from the former Eastern countries. What's the simplest? I asked the President-in-Office to give me the floor for a minute to ask the Minister for a question, because the Minister said he had to leave, to travel abroad. I wasn't given the floor. So I tell the President-in-Office that some people who are presiding to reread the Rules of Procedure should be able to reread their knowledge. Because that has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I did not want to create tension within the Chamber, but I will repeat this all the time on the subject of the amendments. It is an attempt to ensure that Members' vote is applied. You should know, Minister - you represent the government at the moment - that this way of legislating is not the good one. Maybe he's hiding a lot. As far as I am concerned, however, it also insults my dignity. And I have to tell you. I want to have the right to speak and to vote as a Member. You can't deny it to me that way. So I read amendments in here. Has anyone understood - and I am addressing my colleagues - what does the Skourlet amendment mean for the system of allocation of revenues from auctions of indeterminate greenhouse gas emission allowances? Can I tell you what he's saying? It says that we will take the money from the auctions that the state will make and, instead of driving them to environmental projects - because these are unsettled emission allowances, this is a payment, it is a charge for pollutants, which are emitted into the atmosphere and even from Greek industries - we will take them to the UN and IPTO. We will be premiuming PPC again in this way. Any idea what he's hiding here? And he says that 60 percent of this revenue will go to the UN and IPTO. Why would he go there? To go to Green Fund projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Carra, take it easy, don't get hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u122	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u123	I forgive you. I'm talking about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much. I feel a bit like I'm in a criminal court. Maybe I remember my old times. I'm coming back. One can explain why there is a need for these revenues to go to the UN and IPTO, which are ultimately burdening consumers of electricity, especially domestic consumers. No one wanted to explain that to us. Next amendment, colleagues. The Members who sign it to me are in all kinds of sympathy and appreciate them. I am talking about the amendment that gives these members of the independent authorities whose term of office expired, re-enter the right to candidate and choose. But we are told in this Chamber that the terms of office of the independent authorities are due to expire, because they must be terminated. So these terms - implying that these persons may have a political origin or a party, if you wish - to end, to be extinguished. There have been discussions here on the PSE, on the Competition Committee, about a thousand things we have said. And today this amendment - without being ministerial, seems to me that the Minister of State should bring it to me and not ask fellow Members - and he says to us: 'Yes, let them be re-elected'. So, did they now agree that they could or did the government make a mistake and remove people who were pleasurable, vigilant, and who today wants to bring them back from the back door? I cannot therefore say in that sense that the amendments, as they come, serve the good legislation. We are not given the opportunity to understand what they are trying to achieve, especially feasibility. I have to repeat that legislation is not just the text of the law that comes. Transparency must also exist in the reason why it is proposed. And not only that, but the reasoning is usually the most important and most important element in understanding. We have in here provisions that say 'Article 15 of the Law 'no' is repealed, so that Article 16 of the Law will come into force. So we must have a legal library behind it, a computer with a full legal information bank, a little late because no matter how much one wants to say he knows about it, he can come here. We have said that the draft law in itself is not an innovation, because the innovation and reform of public administration put it in earlier stages and I include what I said. What was the previous stage? We were waiting - I had put it to Mr Vernardakis - to see the branch, the specialties, to see the new agencies. He was kind enough to fix me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u125	He's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u126	Let them all come together, Mr. Lappa. We'll see about this. So I said nine hundred fifty branches, specialties in public. I was scared. He told me it was a thousand four hundred fifty. I'm scared, I'm running, Mr. Bernardakis. I can't watch it anymore. In this sense, therefore, so as not to compel the Chamber with what I have said, we have also told the committee that we are voting against the bill. And we will end up with few articles, which we believe may contribute. On the issue of the amendments - and I am speaking personally, I am not speaking for the Union Party - I am prepared from now on to the way in which the amendments come, to vote against all of them, in order to support and strengthen the position of the Member. As young as I am in this Chamber, I respect myself and want to fully understand the texts and have the time required. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational programme "1974: The restoration of democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd General High School of Vyron. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u129	What do you want, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, because I know that I will have the floor for twelve plus two minutes, can I now have the two minutes to explain something to Mr Pappa? I won't ask for them later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Pappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u132	Let me explain something to him, so there's no misunderstanding. Mr. Carras, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u133	I'd be surprised to have the other one. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u134	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u135	So I give you two minutes, but keep them, Mr. Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. In particular, I would like to say that on Thursday the Conference of Presidents will discuss the issues of the independent authorities set out in the Constitution. There were some - if you want - double readings or different legislation so far, because the 2002 Act had a ban on choice for more than two terms - so it allowed two terms - while the 2012 Act had a six-year term of office, without renewal. Because, as you know, at the Conference of Presidents, we must expect and seek unanimity or the maximum possible majority of the four-fifths, and in order to be able to propose one of the other parties to a member of an independent authority already in office, so that there can be a composition, we propose that the term of office can be repeated once again. Otherwise, we would ban all previous members - in everything, not even one - from being able to resume their term of office. We therefore give the opportunity, in order to have a composition on Thursday, to be able to repeat the term of office once again. So we are opening up the composition and democratic function, I think, with this amendment and we hope that the other parties will agree. It does not serve ours, obviously. It concerns executives of independent authorities, apart from party ethics, who can reconstitute a proposal from another party in the new mix. So we are opening the debate to other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u137	Thank you for the information, although I appreciate that Mr Carras' strong objection was not on that point. It was a point of order. Because on that, yes, you're not wrong, but it wasn't unknown. It has been well known for too long and could have come to the committee, debated, incorporated as an article in Mr Vernardakis' bill, chapter 5, which is another thirty articles and not had to discuss it here. Mrs Panayota Dritellis has the floor, and then Mr Pafilis. Mrs. Drittelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill gives us a very good opportunity to learn and also the citizens who are watching us - and to draw very useful conclusions - how the previous government approached public administration and how we are facing the public. Of course, for us this bill has mainly an ideological mark. And that is what I think was made clear yesterday in the debate, which Mr Vorides informed us that he insisted - and I imagine he spoke on behalf of the whole parliamentary group and also of the party - on an assessment of the way the government introduced it and voted on it with the political leadership of the current leader and then of the Minister for Administrative Reform, Mr Mitsotakis. So we have a very great opportunity to remember what the previous leadership approach was and what today's approach is. Indeed, a moment ago Mr Athanasios, a spokesman from New Democracy, told us that this bill is not voted for by the Qualified Opposition, because it is done in terms of SYRIZA. Obviously, it's done under SYRIZA terms. And we understand that both merit and transparency give you a kind of allergy, so you can't argue with either, but you can't even tell the Greek people what exactly is going on with this bill. The previous government, therefore, has treated the public sector for many years, public administration as a spoil. Recently, it was dealt with as a tank of redundancies, as an enemy and all the means supporting it at the time, "done" for public officials, in applauding the redundancies of cleaners, teachers, school guards and calling for a punishing assessment with the infamous "mandatory rate of negative rating", which we all remember, a percentage for which you even now continue to rejoice and even support. The then government had chosen to stigmatize public administration and civil servants, truly operating as a public sector municipality. And this unacceptable and misleading attitude was punished by the citizens and, of course, SYRIZA came and restored those injustices that had been committed both to cleansers and teachers and to many others. Yet, even when our government abolished these injustices, the New Democracy and the other parties were struggling to block these changes. We all remember the battle, the rabies, which the then parliamentary representative of the opposition officer, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, gave, in order to avoid re-entry, defending, of course, his work as Minister. It is at least acidifying to hear Mr Mitsotakis speak today and say that growth will come only through jobs and through the fight against unemployment when he was responsible for most of the redundancies in recent years from the public sector. Consequently, the restoration and support of the work of the public administration, the government with this bill introduces areas which upgrade the entire public service, sectors that deepen the efficiency of the State, upgrade the executive capacity of the public administration and implement the goal of decades for decapitation of the state by the well-known customer system, which had created the parties that are now hypocritically still swinging the finger. With this project, the evaluation becomes a positive upgrade tool. Public administration acquires stability and its most competent executives are promoted through objective mechanisms in executive positions, positions which in the last forty years have been given exclusively to the “loopers” with party biographics. The positions of administrations of critical public bodies and bodies for society, such as hospitals, which are supposed to be cut, will be managed by transparency procedures, which each citizen will be able to monitor, contrary to what happened with previous governments. With this bill we leave forever behind the logic of sharing the party pie. It is worth mentioning - to remind people who today represent the custodians of transparency - that the administrations in these critical structures were often unrelated to the subject of their administration. To set an example, without, of course, referring to names, I will speak of hospital managers appointed - unrelated, of course, to the management sector - and they were recommended as economists, while they were actually active in the field of entertainment, having pre-service to cafeteria administration. This example, of course, is not an accident. It concerns a particular person, who has been commander of a major health structure in the recent past and who, unfortunately, is not the only one. In this draft law, therefore, the selection of public administration officials will be made by means of a register in which public officials will be incorporated on an objective basis and the most appropriate ones will be chosen through an open and transparent procedure. At the same time, a fair and constructive assessment system is introduced at the outset of executive staff and, at the same time, a system of evaluation of all civil servants, with basic features of democratic accountability and the promotion of collective responsibility in the work of the administration. For the Government, the assessment of public sector structures and capabilities is neither a punishing process nor an introduction to satisfy undoubted desires for redundancies, as the previous government has done. We want the evaluation to be an incentive for the professional integration of public sector officials. That is why we incorporate it into an integrated system which rewards individual and collective efforts. With these provisions, the public minister will be able to see his efforts to reward and have access to the positions of responsibility which, until the Left Government arrives, were shared with party friends or, worse, surrendered to fingernails, thus leading the state to the memorials. So it divides us abyssed by the old political forces on the subject of the public. And this is expressed in this bill. Our view is anthropocentric. Yours was until yesterday's clientele for your friends and punishing everyone else. And since for thirty-five years you have deprived the state, you have used the administration for political pursuits, in the last five years you have tried to destroy it, slander it and dismantle it. We, therefore, in a series of legislative interventions, restored dignity to the public and its officials. This draft law is a real reform section, similar to that of the post-civilisation. We are moving on to the upgrading of public administration with a real reformist attitude. With this bill, we contribute to the creation of a modern state free of the pathogens of the past, which will operate with its centre human potential.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u139	Mrs. Drill, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u140	I shall conclude, Mr President. Such a public needs today both society and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u141	So do we. Mr. Thanasis Paphilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u142	We have also expressed our concern at the eruption of the immigration - refugee problem in this Chamber on several occasions and also in this Chamber as a JRC. We pointed out - 'at the deaf door' - by the way - the danger of mass caging in our country of refugees and immigrants because of the European Union's policy and the policy of the governments that followed and followed this policy. That is why we disagreed with the last decisions. Today, unfortunately, we are entitled to reality. However, we must in this Chamber - but above all to the Greek people - stop hiding and demagogy, ladies and gentlemen of the Eurogroup. We must stop the secret, demagogy and hypocrisy! Who is, really, responsible for the refugee - migration current that is the biggest after World War II? Who? These people? Who created the situation in Syria? Wasn't the European Union? It wasn't the Americans, was it NATO, who wanted to overthrow Assad? Who created the situation in Libya? Who in Iraq? Who in Afghanistan? Aren't they the same? But you all support them. All parties are with the European Union and with NATO. And, indeed, you are fervent fans. After all this, yesterday Mr. Kammenos was pushing NATO down to the Mediterranean. Really, you didn't know what would happen if NATO came down, and why would it come down? - in our own parts - should I say so - in Greece, namely, Turkey? Didn't you know? We are much smarter than you and have said that NATO does not recognise borders in the Aegean, that Turkey will immediately break down zones, that Turkey will immediately raise a matter, 'we cannot rescue the FIR Athens'? Didn't you know that? How did we know? Are we that kind of phosphine?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u143	You are!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u144	You knew it before. Then why are you all surprised about what Turkey is doing? Nor do you know that NATO does not go down for the refugee or especially for the refugee, but to support Turkey, because it is Russia and has blocked it, because it is preparing to light up more fire and make the region bigger division? You know it. But, there, they're subjugated! You're asking them to solve the problem. See what the tragic irony is: Mr. Renchy was yelling at Italy for the refugee current, and yesterday he allowed the Americans to bomb with unmanned Libyan boats. And tomorrow she'll cry for the Libyans who will cross the Mediterranean. Isn't that hypocrisy? What is it, anyway? So what's the matter? How will the problem be solved? Can it be solved? It won't be solved. The interventions and wars will take place as long as the imperialist system prevails. You will tell us: 'Okay, until it's overturned, what are we doing?' We had, therefore, been in the first place and made a formal proposal to both the governments and the President of the Republic on what to fight and what to ask for, what to do. To go to the refugees and immigrants in the countries they want, who are mainly responsible, these interventions were carried out. Second, how are they going to go? It's a question. Our proposal - and now it is true, but nobody is listening - is going to leave where they are concentrated, namely Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, through the UN. Such a procedure should be followed, with this mechanism. To give money, leave directly and go to those to whom they want to go and who have also created these problems. This is a spot instant, not waiting. I address the Greek people. Really, well, what else should they see? Who drowns them in the Mediterranean? Isn't the European Union? Who is closing the border today and causing us a huge problem? Isn't the European Union? He should turn his fire over there. We are also addressing the populace, the workers, and we tell them not to be disoriented by various fascist and other screams. This is the freaky face of capitalism, what they live today, who drown thousands of people who leave their homes. This is the enemy, who is an enemy for the workers, who are unemployed, who cannot live, who cannot eat, who face all these enormous social problems. That's where they've got to point. Victims of this capitalist system are also refugees and workers in developed or less developed capitalist countries, and that is where their fires must be turned. Also, with all this, they must express their solidarity in this world that is destroyed. They must raise their voice and stagnation against racism and xenophobia, which is actually trying to acquittal with the real criminals, which are capitalism itself, the same system, which does not hesitate to slaughter peoples all over, who are not hesitant to send them to poverty and unemployment. They want to acquit and make responsible the people who have been destroyed. Let me make it clear. Our position is to stay there, in their countries, to fight there, to overthrow the system. Our position is not to leave, to fight there, to overthrow the system. But they don't do it, and we can't dictate it. And from there on, there is the humanitarian whole. I'll go through the bill now. The explanatory statement is a monument, an ideological monument and not just! It is a monument of integration - and not just integration - of the government - of SYRIZA, I will say more - and full support for the very capitalist system and its core, called a state. What does "state" mean? State means organized class domination. It's a lennistic term, but it's real. What is that state? What has he served all these years and what is he serving today? That class rule. Who has the class domination? The bourgeois class doesn't have it? Those who have wealth in their hands. We are not surprised, of course, about this conversion which is speedy. Here, too, you say with arguments that this state can also be a philosophical one. And I'm explaining. Let us begin with the pathogens described by Varvaressos in his report in 1962 until now: a suffocating presence of the political leadership, anxieties, centralisation, bureaucracy, a lack of qualified management personnel. These are the traditional pathogens. Additional pathogens are partitionism, expansion of the number of transfusers, the absence of citizens' cultures, maliciousness and - one of the most important! - the domination of the political sub-system against the administrative and the transformation of the parties - listen "progressive" and "left" perception! - from representative social cultures to parties in the state. That's all it is. That's the state. It's full of ideological castration. We are addressing the workers, especially those who thought or were misled that you would do something else. Full ideological castration not a single word. Because this state, with its pathogens, as you call them, with such problems or worse - in the game is all of this - served all the years the interests of the sovereign class. Depending on the period and social conditions, it was like this, or else, so I wouldn't begin to describe. He never changed. Their basic goal and purpose was served with all these problems, as will from now on. What do you think? That we will build a modern state, that SYRIZA is coming to build a modern state. What does the report say here, for this reason, not to say all the rest? That it will constitute the beginning and starting point for a whole different operation of the state. Many SYRIZA Members have said so too, with passion. Will the state be different, Mr. Bernardakis? What state will it be? Will it be a people's state where you're going to build? We say you won't do anything different. Move in the same line as the previous ones. In my village, they say the good day has been seen since the morning. First of all, your bill is a memorial obligation. In order to pass it, you also get permission from the European Union and the quartet now, otherwise it won't pass. I imagine the quartet has a great deal of curiosity to build a state that will serve the people and not capitalist development, as you continue. We therefore say that it is a reactionary reorganization of the urban state. They want a more effective state today in the service of capitalist development and even in such crisis situations, waiting for a recovery, when it comes. That's objective. It is not a matter of what anyone claims or intentions he may have. That's objective. Why, who has the means of production? Who has power? He's got a handful of capitalists. Modernisation, which is done and necessary for the urban system itself, aims at adapting the needs of capital to the present circumstances and not to the people. And if you say again that you're going to build a proletarian state with capitalists in power, you've probably managed to square the cycle, which nobody has achieved so far. We therefore say that it will implement this anti-grassroots policy, which you are implementing with or without memorials, it will be more classic and more authoritarian. In these changes New Democracy and the other parties supporting the system are agreed. They're fighting for secondarys, and it looks like they're fighting for secondarys either because you might change some of theirs either put some of your guys in or change beyond general. That's the fight that's going on. Strategically everyone agrees together. So, let's see, we're overreacting about what we're saying or being stuck with? Let's see practically whether we're right or not. Let us, for example, take the question of evaluation. How will public officials and executives be assessed on what basis? Their effectiveness from what will be judged precisely? What will be assigned to efficiency as good or not? What's the targeting? It specializes in general policy by Ministry. Isn't that anti-popular? Doesn't it serve capitalist development? And I am referring to the policy that you or the system itself dominate. Let us, for example, go to the finance ministers. How will executives and employees be judged? Are they not to be judged by whether they quickly promote privatization? They'll be judged. Secondly, they will not be judged by unblocking very quickly the incredible money given to monopolies and business groups, and if they do not cause problems, to make the so-called growth, etc.Huh? Are they not to be judged by the rapid lifting of various obstacles so that capitalist growth can progress quickly? That's why they won't be judged? Anyone who's effective and goes quickly will be good. That is the policy they will implement. So don't say any more about the philosophical state and philosophical mechanisms. That'll be the crisis that's going to happen! Let us go to the so-called social ministries: How will they be judged in hospitals, for example, administrative officials? On what criterion? Whether they manage to spend less and less. How will teachers be judged on the basis of the Diamantopoulou law as it was? Whether they manage to find sponsors. Whoever finds most donors will be better. So we are wrong to say that not only does the state and state mechanism change, but will it become worse? And because executives will be chosen from the National Officers' Registry, what will change in the state's own function? What development will it serve? Will it not serve capitalist development, European Union policy, what we are living today, the barbarity that we are living on today? Isn't it going to move in the same field? He's gonna move right in the same field. And I'm going to the partyism, which people are shouting about. We have said this from this point of view in a previous draft law on public administration issues. Today, the fact that everyone says no to communism has a basis. What is this basis today? The basis is that today the system wants to shape people who, if you like, will not have a party identity in the sense that they will listen to one party or another in government power. They want to form such a mechanism that they believe, they will be subject to the system itself and they will serve it not because they obligate it, but they will have incorporated it into its own thinking. That is to say, '3% redundancies'. But you're telling them that 3% means ten thousand people. It says: "I don't care, the economy doesn't work otherwise." That's the kind of staff he wants to build. That is why all of this so-called "collectiveisation", which is so-called "institutional memory". We take note of it and life will prove whether we are right or wrong. These are being promoted in all capitalist countries. Others, in more developed economies, have done this. Such people want - I do not want to say a name - and especially managers, who will be ruthless to apply the interests of the capitalist system themselves, not because they are forced, but because they believe them. The rapporteur and our speakers have analysed the other aspects and I do not want to dwell on them. We say that the prologue state with monopolies and bourgeoisie in power cannot exist either historically or will not exist. If power is not changed, that is to say, this system is not overturned, if the economy does not go into the hands of the people, if it does not move in the direction of human needs and not capitalist profit, there will be no philosophical state, and that has nothing to do with civil servants. It has to do with the overall functioning of the urban state. And we say in this respect that our proposal for socialism, for working people's power, taking into account the great positive and negative experience of socialism that we have built, will indeed build a state in which the people themselves will run and move in the same direction. And that's where it's in the interest of the workers to fight. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u145	He came to the Chamber and asked for the floor, Mr. Kourublis, and indeed, during the economy of the year, instead of eighteen minutes, to speak for ten minutes. Because, Minister, I have already spoken with two colleagues, Mr Katsafados and Mr Barkas, if it is not urgent for you, to listen to them and then I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u146	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. Mr Katsafandos has the floor, and then Mr Barkas and the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with an admission. We all want public administration to be more operational, more efficient, more qualitative, less costly and more time-consuming, a public administration, which will be free from party interventions. However, the draft law that you are bringing, instead of continuing the reforms of the previous government and correcting any failures, does exactly the opposite. You show your dear tactics, you bring a bill with a very nice title, you use catchy words, such as "worthiness and transparency", but something that is not actually done with the bill, which you are tabling. For how remarkable and how transparent it is, ladies and gentlemen, that there are articles in this bill that have not been passed through public consultation? How valuable and how transparent is it that there is no report from the General Accounting Office of the State for many of the things you put in this bill? This is a report which does not exist because the General Accounting Office says that you have not provided the evidence. In fact, we come to the point of asking ourselves and asking ourselves, when we heard the Minister for Administrative Reform here and here in the House, but also in the committees, talking and saying that the idea of the bill is to move into a deep section of the public administration, which will be its criterion of colonisation and worthiness. Really, Minister, what were your objections when you appointed all these relatives, the best men, the grooms, the friends, when you chose the training directors, when and as you have chosen the others, who have served the public administration since the day you took over the authority? If you really want to be right about what you claim and bring in the bill, I would like to ask the following question: will the new managers of hospitals be placed on the basis of the register? Will the new Secretary-General resign and reassign new ones on the basis of the register? And if you want to do this, why do you bring the registry to start operating in the summer of 2018 and not today? So all of this is reasonable questions, which unfortunately you are not answering us, unless you want the register to be applied when you now have handed over power and, unfortunately, leave the country at a much worse point than you have received it. Ladies and gentlemen, what matters with the register, of course, we have no objections. The register is a very good indicator for civil servants to be able to assess as best as possible. But why should only the civil servants and managers be in charge and be presidents and managers and managers of agencies, who need to be in need of people who can offer even more? Why exclude a large part of society? Why exclude lawyers, doctors, political engineers, all these scientists, who have been out and have gone abroad and have really magnified? So why would you even want in this critical area to apply your ideas and not the good that some people can offer through these positions both for their homeland and for their own government? Everything that has to do with the Secretary-General - we say that we do not believe that the Secretary-General must come out of the register of civil servants - you yourself in Article 6 say that the Secretary-General is the link, it is the link between the orders and the government strategy towards all these issues that he will have to negotiate. So how can the Secretary-General not be at the discretion of the Minister concerned? Of course he could also be through the register, but could you deprive the Minister of his choice or deprive any government of his ability to choose a Secretary-General, who would better convey the government's instructions and instructions to his political leader? With regard to what has to do, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the evaluation and selection of heads, but also to the rating, I would very simply like to say that we are talking about reform, which is not, and is, a return to the past. We are talking about the reintroduction of Presidential Decree 318/1992, which, as you recall, has not helped to make a better assessment of public sector officials. Let the vast majority of the civil servants through these provisions behaved as if they were to be excellent, almost most of them to be excelled. As far as the choice of heads is concerned, you are basically reintroducing the Ragonisation system there. Take the written examinations and the structured interview and create service councils, involving elected members, as Mr. Katrugalos did on disciplinary boards. I would really like to ask this: all these disciplinary councils that have been held for a year now, what have they decided on of civil servants who are prosperous in the case of civil servants who should have been convicted? I would like to see a report on how many of them have been unleashed or are on holiday. As far as the other provisions are concerned, I would like to point out to you that you are retrospectively appointed - and I do not know what legal basis it may have - two journalists in the Ministry of Interior, because, as stated in the explanatory statement, the two ministries of internal and administrative reform have merged. But the logic of the merging of the ministries, ladies and gentlemen, is to reduce some expenditure. Otherwise, it's just a pretext. Note that these two journalists, according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, will cost us EUR 60,000 annually. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the Minister, because after the battle which took place in the committees, but also after yesterday's debate, he changed Rule 36, but also stopped the functioning of Articles 32 and 48. Ladies and gentlemen, within this bill there is nothing but the ideals you have, because of your view that the Minister is almost infallible. After all, these two articles, which came out of this bill, enabled the Minister to decide without service councils, to decide alone which people will get back to work, who people will be assessed, who people will be moved, who people will be transferred, who people will be transferred. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You know, seasons change. That's what the refugee looks like. That is what the great refugee crisis shows. If you do not realize that in order to exercise power under these critical times what is needed is realism in order to be able to exhaust the real potential that the country has in order to build a modern public, modern society and stay locked in your ideas, all you can do is go back where your position was, in the position of counterpopulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u149	You've never done it for so many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u150	Easy, Mr. Papadopoulos. We're going well. Mr. Constantine Barkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I would like to start with a comment to the JRC. It is a fact that the Renewable Left with the KIC over the years has had several differentiations. One of these differentiations has to do with the role of the state and the literature each chooses to analyse what the state is, what its role is in society and what role it plays in this class struggle. So I, as a neomarxist and refreshing on the Left, read Pulantza and his work "The State, Power and Socialism". He's talking about a lot of things. One of them says that, as Lenin showed, the dominant objective of revolutionary action is state power and the necessary prerequisite for any socialist revolution is the destruction of the urban state, of that state that is directly related to the bourgeois order. Following on, he says that the democratic path to socialism is the radical transformation of the state. So this bill is trying to do it. He's been trying to interfere in the management done by governments in the country for forty years with the anti-tax logic they put into the state. This bill is trying to bring back certain things that have to do with merit and how the state helps society. I'd say they've been heard by Vice-Population MPs - I'm sorry about the characterization - fat. It has been heard that the state should enter the market and assess it as in businesses, because the market has shown this good way so that the state can function properly. I have to say here that these colleagues have very little memory, because the market is the very opposite example. The market shows how to steal and how to have total lawlessness in the operation of all structures. In this sense and as this is characterised by the Centre, because the parties of the Centre state this logic, it is considered that all social benefits must be directly related to the State. It is assumed that if this relationship is created, it will only have a classic logic. In other words, those who have the money will have access to the state, while those who are the descendants of society will have no access. In other words, the State should act as a customer. The state, however, is not a business, it cannot separate people according to their class logic or the money they have. "Privatial service by civil servants," said one colleague, who obviously knows - after all - had such an affair - people who were in the public sector and who in some ways managed to get degrees or create that pre-service so that they would always be clicked more than others when an evaluation was made. You call us unprepared to rule and tell us that we have provoked the elections. I would like to remind you that it was the previous government, which has placed a rate of redundancies in the government, because the public was bad. And they conceived for four years they were making designations against the public on the assumption that everyone is lazy, that they must leave and that the state must be reduced. With this process, with the violent reduction of the state, as achieved by the current President of Officerial Response, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we had people who were out of state, outside of state health structures, who were unable to resort to the state, a state that was dysfunctional, precisely because there were no people to be able to serve people. So when we talk about 'Gargandua - State', we should think about these state-run rulers in the private sector, who have only been fed by the public over the years. So what's public service? How did it come about and how did it end? The public, in our view, should be that pillar of political production and support for social groups, which are in the years of the crisis in a political system, which it thinks these people should be outside politics, outside the state. We therefore want a state of sovereignty. We want a state that will support the citizen and be next to the citizen, whenever and whenever needed. We want a state that supports the new structures, innovation, the new people, the people who have fought, obtained degrees, studied, and now they can earnestly manoeuvre this public sector, which will help all those who are currently outside the political system and outside the social and political structures. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues that concern the Greek society are many. I'd like to stand on two. We will all agree that immigration cannot be an area of political controversy and a way of targeting the government. For immigration and for these flows of people coming from war, war zone, the government cannot be held responsible. Could anyone predict that this whole world will come to our country? We must all consider where our country is, that it is the southern end of the European Union's borders, and how all these people on the islands managed and the solidarity they showed towards immigrants. In this sense, I think we cannot describe and say that the government must be held responsible for the wave of migration. I think we all have to bend together on this problem so that we can create those structures and show that solidarity towards this world so that it is not alone and, even though it is persecuted by his country, it is not alone, a warm hand should be there and touch them. We must show them our solidarity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that in the last few days we have been in front of revelations about a system that has been smitten for years by the public corvant, which has been weakening the state, a system which has been blackmailing people and blackmailing public structures only so that it can get money from the state machine. In my opinion, we have the fall of this system, because this government has shown courage over these people who, with'reasonable night', are attacking the government, in the different perception that we want to destroy, push out of public life. And in the last four months, we have seen a rabies attack almost all the media, the small websites, towards the government, because this government really puts the knife on the bone and wants to end with these logics. I shall end, Mr President, on a point which we have to discuss at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u152	The third time I measure the word 'complete' and it is the last one, Mr Barkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u153	I shall conclude, Mr President. At some point we will have to look at this. Are there or are any questions tabled from newspapers about complaints to ministers? Are there, yes or no, by specific MPs, by a specific political party and specific political parties now in opposition? Are there any or don't there any papers that the newspaper itself apologized for after? Isn't that what we're supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u154	Finish, please! It's also irrelevant to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u155	Should we not explain how Members are doing their parliamentary work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u156	I would ask Mr Barkas, on my own initiative, to introduce the words of my colleague, Mr Barkas, on his own initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u158	We should sometimes think about the history of the future that reads the minutes of the House. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very critical issue that has to do with a great patient, as George Rallis said, who, after forty years, seems to have not been healed yet. And if you watch the position of all the speakers, you will see that everyone really agrees that there is a problem. And no one should and cannot question that efforts have been made in the past. However, efforts were clashed and prevented by the strong logic of partyism. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! This is the reality in which we are being called today with coolness and sobriety to respond. However, I particularly note on the part of the Officer for Reconciliation a lack of courage to face up to reality and truth, to formulate a reason for corrigendum in a bill proving the nakedness of the arguments made by Officerial Reconciliation. Because we know what the Qualified Opposition brought last year as a reform: a draft law which basically obeyed the logic of the party's own days. That was the reform he was trying to reform. So you come today with hypocrisy and destructive arguments. I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen! Are you the only patriots in this place? With what right do you have such a disastrous reason, incriminating a government that does not have well - well a year in power? All these sufferings in this country have brought them? It's a disgrace! We also need a little erection when we go up to this Step and get word for it, because the Greek people listen to us. And I'm telling you again that the Greek people have no memory of goldfish. He understands the anxiety you're filing from your need for weaning from power. That hurts you. You can't stand being on the counterpopulation benches. You'll be there for a long time! I'm telling you to remember '81. That's what you used to say in '81. You said in three months the government will fall, in six months, in eight, in ten!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u160	That's a good political match!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u161	You will be staying in opposition for a long time, because you have no arguments. Because you do not take advantage of the time of the period in Anti-Population, so that you can really see the mistakes and weaknesses. That is the beauty of democracy, ladies and gentlemen! That's the health of democracy! Every time the people send a party to the opposition it gives them the opportunity and the time to see their mistakes, to endeavor their weaknesses, to locate them, to correct them, to prepare a new reason. Was that a reason? Besides, can I tell you something? It's so great your opposition to this bill and so much of your arguments, recorded by the number of speakers. This alone demonstrates that you come too tired to contrast with a bill that really tries a substantial cut. I have not listened to you, I am not convinced of the arguments you have made, the tired ones, on the matter of the register of directors. At the end of the debate you are forced to say that it is indeed an attempt, which is really trying to create a reliable and worthy mechanism, a pool of managers, which must be exploited on the most objective criteria, all these people, this wealth of the public, which has so far been strangled by the logic of the ombudsmen. That's the reality. And that is what you are afraid of, because at last, every public official will be able to exploit and offer to his homeland through his potential and the objective crisis in his capacity. And what are you telling us? Why don't you put the private people in it? On the one hand, we say that we do not charge the public on the other, and on the other hand you come and say put private staff on the other. We want to limit the presence of private executives. And because I listen to you all the time about the posters, listen to me, ladies and gentlemen. I am not going to speak on a personal level about what was happening with the posters, but if you want us to abolish the retired people from everyone and from the government and from the Members, say so. Finally, let's see if you believe what you're saying. Let the Greek people know what we're talking about. And to tell you about this particular ministry, which I have the honour of leading: fifty-eight are the executives who are postponing to this ministry, in all, to Secretaries, Ministers, Deputy Ministers, State Secretarys. Do you know how many were in New Democracy? Do you want me to file them by name, bring the names to the parliament? It was a hundred and eight. And you have the courage to go up to the Step of the House and report on these issues. You dare say it again and I'll answer you with names and with your relatives and friends and friends, if that's how you want us to take it. Ladies and gentlemen, from Article 1 to Article 14, therefore, this is the innovative intervention for the creation of the register of executives, from which they will really be assigned - I would ask you to take care of this - and the offices of the ministers and through the processes of the IASC and the National School of Public Administration will have procedures and functions with which to upgrade these people to the highest extent. But there is also an article in which I did not see any mention, because these do not touch you, Article 11, with which, for the first time, the public administration ensures the possibility - and this is democracy and a political culture - for every man, with any specificity, whether blind or mobilely disabled, for him to be able to develop as well, since he has qualifications and capabilities and not because he has the specificity, to be on the sidelines. This is a public revolution. It is a overthrow of attitudes and attitudes toward an important part of society - and to hear this, people in this area - from this government. Ladies and gentlemen, from Rule 14 to 24 all civil servants are assessed. We consider that all these people must be evaluated. For everyone, if we give him the opportunity, we must train him, as is provided for in Article 19, to be corrected. And it doesn't hide what you had, 15%. Aren't you telling me, these seventy-five thousand people who were in public and whom you really wanted to fire, SYRIZA appointed them? So we know what we're talking about when we get to Stepma. You think you orthodox the word of the truth and the Greek people listen to you with reverence. He doesn't know how you've worked all these years. Here, then, there is an evaluation of all and the possibility of everyone improving. However, there is something very important in Article 24, which allows the citizen to also speak, to assess the services of the citizen, ladies and gentlemen. And that is an innovation that we need to support, because it actually activates the citizen, makes it an auditor of both public administration and power. From Rule 25 to 31 we have, ladies and gentlemen, the release of the ranking. What's happened so far? Essentially, the presiding procedures were commissioned. Is that what you wanted? Is that what we're doing now? Is there anything to do with what you have done with the evaluation we are currently offering and the release of the rating so that the competences and the resources actually evolve? In the interview, for which you were incriminating, tell me what happened so far in the interview. You especially in the area of right, you like and love the private sector, tell me if there is a private sector that has no interview. As many times as you have introduced it, you have abused it yourself, because you also wanted to put your hands on it, let me be allowed to speak. The government is now coming and bringing this provision. Tell us what else you want us to add to the interview in order to make it more objective, so that we can really evaluate people right. Here, tell us what you have to add. I don't hear any suggestions for correction. For the first time the minutes of this interview - let each assessor be otherwise rated - will be made public, can be checked and, to a large extent, objectivity is ensured. I did not hear, ladies and gentlemen, anyone - and it really seemed to me - talking about Article 42. Is there a citizen in this country who does not believe that bureaucracy and plurality are the two Asian sisters who torture the public and make it ineffective and counterproductive?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u162	Minister, you have to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u163	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u164	You got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u165	Okay. How are we going to hit red tape when, ladies and gentlemen, there is no public database that touches on the other side, there is no interoperability? EUR 7 billion has been spent. Who's gonna apologize for these? Who will apologise for spending the last 12 years 7 billion on European programmes and does not "swipe" one of the public's databases with the other? In 2016, then, we will have moved on to this sector to release productive forces. We support Article 42 - and I have not heard a comment - the National Commission for the Codification of Legislation and the Administrative Procedure, for the restriction of pluralism, which really drowns and creates opaqueness, creates a regime that is really unbearable to the functioning of the public service. As far as Article 48 is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we have withdrawn it. And I heard Mr Voridis saying yesterday that this is a sign of weakness. Did Mr Vorides forget that here in this Step - to remind him, because I see that he has no good memory - that one day and three times he was up and withdrew articles and that the Deputy reinstated them? Did they forget that? If they forget it, we don't forget it. Article 48, ladies and gentlemen, we will be working on it again, we will also discuss it with you and I think we will find a common place. Because if we look at it with temper, it solves a number of issues and restores some injustices. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are unfair to ourselves when, instead of coming here with proposals, with improved positions, to discuss such a crucial issue in the public administration, we have this party mania that we have to say something negative to gain impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u166	Minister, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u168	So do we. Go to good. We proceed as follows: Mr Ballis, Mr Lappas, Mrs Vultesis. Mr Papachristopoulos will then speak as a parliamentary representative, who has not spoken. And then we go back to colleagues and depending on how the ministers come. I officially informed the Prime Minister around 19:00 will speak, Mr. Leventis around 17:30. Of the other political leaders, the Bureau is not yet informed. Come on, Mr Ballis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the real core of the opposition to the Opposition, particularly the Officer, on this bill? They have heard some criticisms on points and articles. The truth, however, is that the objection seems to be in its overall philosophy of colonization, of merit in highlighting officials through the public administration, of upgrading the role of civil servants at all levels of hierarchy, of disfellowshipping customer relations, that is to say, the fundamental reform that this bill wants to make. It is ideological that the new Republic's rapporteur told us yesterday, expressing the objection of Officer Responsibility for the selection of the Secretary-General of the Ministries through the administration. It must be a political choice from the Minister, as they are political. But that is precisely the concept of the state's prefecture by the party that every time is in the government. Mr Adonis Georgiades also told us yesterday and other speakers subsequently. They mean, of course, a quota with a predetermined rate of failures in the evaluation. It's an evaluation of the stack system. Harvard's using it, he told us. He reminded us yesterday that he did not tell us that MICROSOFT rejected it by saying that this system is cannibal. It is justified, of course, to support the quota because it must be based on the basic option that Mr Mitsotakis had when imposing compulsory slaughter on the public. You have appointed your own people everywhere, other speakers have said from the Civic Opposition. Are you really talking about rope? Can we talk about the appointments you made on the eve two days before the elections? Should we talk about the subway, say about the ECHO and those appointings, about the holes in the AACC, about the continuous reports of Rakidzis that were ignored? Should we talk about the best man and the best buttons? For the O.R.P.D.? Eleven members of the board of directors, eight were best suited to each other. Can we talk about serving the ministerial offices with all the relatives of the ministers? You put a hundred and fifty governors and sub-commanders in hospitals, Mr. Georgantas repeated yesterday. I heard him carefully. Do you really want to open this debate on how to appoint and on the persons appointed to the hospital administrations of your own government? Because if that is the case, we should also talk about the forged diplomas of appointed governors, which Mr Vorides, when he took over in the health minister's turn, has abrogated such appointments. A total of six hospitals in Attica controlled the appointments of governors who did not have legal qualifications, university papers. Should we talk about the governors you appointed to other health establishments only qualified as the party identity of EMUS? In the CSD, what happened with the personal friends of the then Minister, the "Dromocateio", the "Sisminoglio", the "St. Paul" of Thessaloniki, the Thoraca Hospital of Patras, the Agrinio, the Achaia Hospital and many others? Let's see how the commanders were appointed then, now that you're giving us a resignation for a process that has not yet been completed? But you are right, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, and you are not voting for the bill. It does not really fit your ideology and your understanding of the state, of the administration, of transparency, of democratic control. We'll do it. We will vote for it, knowing that it is a difficult project. Its main purpose is to confront the mentality which, as a recommendation from the Greek state, exists in relation to the state, its functioning, its mission and its responsibilities. It has to deal with the suspicion of officials themselves, mainly due to the misappropriation or feasibility of past evaluations. It also has to deal with the concept of society itself for the state and its structures, its functioning, its effectiveness, how to deal with citizens. It has to break impermeable public service, micro-powers, authoritarianity, but also personal aberrations. Above all, however, it has the difficulty of balance between what is present in the state and what we want to create. What we are trying to do with the evaluation of the three hundred sixty degrees is to change the model and perception of staffing and management with the aim of rationalising and managing, efficiency in the functioning and efficiency of services and employees, with a circular evaluation of employees and structures, by disconnecting promotions from the year-end alone, with a reward system of the most capable. It is really necessary and we must all admit that there must also be areas in the state, in its organization, and in its administration, in its way. A lot of what has finally been said in the past is necessary to reform the administration: reports that have been left in drawers, suggestions that have been ignored, proposals which have deliberately been misinterpreted, as has been done in the recent past. With the establishment of the executive register, the new system of selection of heads and the new way of evaluation is to eliminate the party state and the system of customer relations, it is to increase efficiency and quality, strengthen transparency, save and exploit resources, ensure high formal and substantial qualifications in the addresses for changing the concept that the public wants today to be a party feud. There are, of course, preconditions for the success of this project, conditions relating to the change in the attitude and culture of the officials and society themselves, conditions relating to better training and the promotion of evaluation capacities for evaluators. With these conditions we are prepared to work, and we are sure that we will succeed. We are relying on the will of society to break this system of philosophicalism and opacity into the public. It is a matter of counter-population whether it will assist in this effort or whether it will remain attached to its standards yesterday and support structures that favour customer relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, too. Here comes Mr. Lappas and Mrs. Vultesis. If Mr Papachristopoulos is here, he will speak, otherwise I will give the floor to you, Mr Flabourari, for two minutes on your amendment, even though on your list you have the last and Mr Papapa over. I want to change the order, because Mr. Poppas has come last, so to create an intra-government problem between Poppa and Flamourari. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u171	No problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u172	Well, you have the floor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, I am starting with something because Mr Vorides referred to my name. He said that for Article 48 I have a special fanaticism and a special passion in defending and supporting it. Yes, I repeat, I support the philosophy, architecture and meaning of Article 48, with only one reservation for paragraph 3 of Article 48, which refers to the intervention of the legislator in the pending criminal proceedings. The whole article still supports it today, and I believe that it will soon be completed with a new legal architecture to support it in the House. This to make it clear once and for all. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I have heard almost all the speakers since this morning. I have a feeling you can't get over yourself. Why can't you get over yourself? Because you cannot go beyond what we call administrative and democratic acquis. And you're doing well. You are defending a past and a present which is unbearable to you. I heard Mr Tassoula before, who said that our bill - used two phrases - is insignificant and unbearable. I would like to reply to him, even if he is not here: it is really insignificant, because it was much more important that the state's long-term party abundance from its party was running for years. And our bill is also obscure, because it is indeed deeper your customer perception of the desolation of the structures of the state and of the public administration. They tell you that - even today the Greek people hear it and understand it - in every bill brought by our government that rationalizes structures, modernises services, sit down and resists with an extreme demolition and a storming speech. Do you know why you're doing this? Why are you defending structures that you have served and tactics of retardation? Looks like you're studying the Klauzevic system too much. Persevere. I'm telling you, I'm politically explaining why you're doing it. Do you know why you're doing this? You do it because we abolish structures and networks through which your client's perception was served. Where did he drive, anyway? It led to corruption and complexity, known things. That is what scares you: the abolition of networks and routes through which your customer perception and practice went. Just the opposite makes this bill. You know, two and a half thousand years ago the first to define the concept of a public servant was Socrates in ancient Athens. You didn't listen to him and you never listen to him. It laid down the concept of a public servant, according to which the individual interest of the civil servant is only served if it is identical to the public interest and public feeling. May I remind you of something about the public administration you built? When the Greek state was founded, hear a phrase of Makrigiannis: “What nation without administration and laws has he prospered, and has not been lost?” So that is what you have done over the last two hundred years, of which you have in fact been ruling over the last fifty years. This state has not succeeded and lost, because such public administration has created as your policies are, as are your practices. We won't tell you anything about the past. I will tell you what Costas Scandalides said the day before yesterday in committee. Listen to it: "Since 1980 all the changes that had been introduced were some, which political power did not complete them, because it left loopholes in its implementation, and that is obviously the responsibility of the governments that ruled the country." SYRIZA? No, of course not. We have all agreed that this state does not change it, and that brought things this far. It's the Achilles heel of counterpopulation. It's a gangrene, in fact, in the political system. And you have to say, gentlemen, about this gangrene, about this scandal, about this sick and perverted political regime in public administration? Are you suggesting anything different? You see them all black, as Mr. Tasoulas said, insignificant and unheard of in our bill. That's what you're saying. You're not suggesting anything. Tell us something. What rationalizes, in your understanding, the public administration actually suffers? What rationalizes her? Tell us. What modernizes structures and services? Say a proposal, something, an argument, to hear it from the Greek people. You don't do anything. You're doing a retrograde tactic, supporting a perverted and sinful past. What consequences did Costas Scandalides have? I will tell you what it means: Written by 7% of GDP, which means 13 billion. As Mr Rakinzis says, about 23 to 33 billion has been costing this policy over the past fifty years on corruption and interlocutory. Add all nine billion of the tax evasion. We actually have an account of around 40 billion, which in two - three years' time would solve the debt issue and the problems facing the country. You tolerated, we tolerated society, the Greek people being tolerated by a state that has just voted for seventeen and a half thousand laws and there have been a hundred and twenty thousand circular ministers. Only the Construction Regulation, which governs - supposedly - the economic activity and development of the country, has thirty thousand pages. These are the results of maladministration and mismanagement by previous governments. But don't stay in these. Let's go from now on. The idea of the bill and its architecture is to make a deep incision to the administration. You don't want it, I told you why. That is what my colleagues have said before. It cannot be tolerated by your political philosophy, your political concept of the concept of state and its structures and services. You want another state, what we've had so far. That is what you support with fanaticism, nothing to change, at last, in the structures of the state. You insist today. You find some topics well as history in the explanatory statement. In the provisions, however, you do not say 'yes' to anyone, as you did to all the bills brought by SYRIZA from January until today. In everything, but everything, you keep the same retardation tactics. What can I say? About the 100-dose issue? On the issue of citizenship? About the cohabitation pact? About the intervention we're doing in the penitentiary, which are public administration issues too? Tell us where you said yes and where you proposed an alternative. What's the matter, finally? This must be heard by the Greek people and taken into account. As far as the implementation time is concerned, the Minister said, and I repeat, Mr President, that it is a reform and a new architecture in the public sector, based on four things, four major interventions, as we said: in the national register, evaluation, rating and selection system. If the House agreed on the philosophy of the bill and the basic provisions, especially in the national register and in the evaluation, we would also see the timing of implementation. Do you know why? What does the Minister's argument say to you? We are talking about tens of thousands of legal persons governed by public and private law of local government and the public. If we were to say 'apply tomorrow', what would happen to these administrations? It would be a big, powerful shock, which the public administration itself would not have withstand. That is why. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And can I tell you something else? The only intervention that this government has made - and is now making on objective criteria, I believe - is a change in hospitals. No director-general has changed nor has he changed any of the administrations! I shall conclude, Mr President, with one comment only on what the representative of the JRC said. The Minister told the committee that the great ideas are great when they are possible. I heard the analysis of the state of the friend Paphie that we were students at the university. I ask you: is there or not a different level of formation of the capitalist state and a different level of formation of the public administration? There are a lot of levels of formation. If it did not mean to interfere in raising a level of state and administration, why do you participate in and support the people? Aren't you interested in the state's gradual changes? You have already tabled two amendments today. In what state and administrative framework will the amendments you have brought be moved? When the bourgeois state collapses and we're going to your own state?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Lappa, finish it up. We will not now open a philosophical debate with the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u175	It's a contradiction you're not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u176	It's not a contradiction, it's a contradiction you see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u177	They are not answering, Mr President. I'd like an answer. However, you should know that the Left over time used a phrase, 'we will upset you in legality'. Their legality! Do you know why? Because the principles of the Constitution and the laws are good, their application is suffering, Mr Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u178	It's not the plenary to have these conversations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u179	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u180	But finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u181	This is a great opportunity for Parliament to pass this bill. It is a section that will launch important developments at all levels of structures in the services of the Greek State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u182	Mrs. Sofia Vulture has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 'our houses are in our hands, we are in our hands' and in our speaking houses are on fire, and we are singing! I don't find anything more appropriate for today's situation. The impenetrable song of the government continues from last Saturday, when, on that very day, we were officially warned of the danger of closing the borders, the government considered that the most important thing it had to do was to discuss in Parliament the so-called "parallel programme", which became the gravestone of the so-called humanitarian crisis law, which had also become in turn a gravestone of the so-called "Thessaloniki program". And then, on Saturday, the Prime Minister was here - and I hear he's coming today - and what did the Step say from this? 'There are no closed borders or there will be no closed borders!'. That's what he told us! And today we are in the situation, which you all know and you act as if it is not happening. You are talking about something that does not currently have the same value as the other issue, which concerns the rest of the Greek people. And what did Mr. Kammenos tell us a few days earlier? He told us that, with NATO's involvement, the migration issue ends and that they brought NATO, because they did not have time to change the FRONTEX regulation. In other words, they brought an alliance to the Aegean, because they did not have time to change the FRONTEX regulation and the alliance would be more flexible. What about NATO now? Where is NATO now? Is anyone able to tell us? You neither have an operational programme nor know what will happen. Somewhere in the background of the Turkish claims is lost. And today we are talking about public administration. Which country? Of course, you have withdrew articles. And this is not about normal withdrawals, Mr President. This is where an article was withdrawn which intervened, if voted, directly in justice. He abolished the second trial, allowed municipalities not to go to a second trial, and this was a direct interference in justice and in the city itself. Of course, once again, as with the parallel programme, the opportunity, as I hear from colleagues' speeches, is given to be dissatisfied and very pleased, because the government is implementing left-wing policies. And at the same time that the border has closed, the country has changed to an endless hot spot, immigrants and refugees coming down from Idomen and now we learn that others have left Lamia on foot for Idomen. Others come with coaches, others walk away. There are agreements behind our backs. NATO doesn't exist. The evaluation is carcinogenic. The International Monetary Fund is leaving to stay. Here comes a new memorandum, I learn, Mr. Pappa, and you're his champion to leave the IMF. What are you gonna do? You have told us a lot of times that the IMF must go away, not to be in the programme, and yesterday the official person responsible for Greece in the International Monetary Fund said that a new programme, what will be called, will be a Memorandum - a memorandum - will come to the other Memorandum, the third that you brought to Greece. And you are now telling us that the IMF is leaving, that they will not close the border, that the migration from NATO has ended - which does not exist. You're gonna tell me this isn't the first time you've lied. But the country is in absolute chaos, and the government is still only interested in propaganda and is making new "buffalo". In the case of NATO, the operation took place a mission. In the case of social solidarity, the minimum guaranteed income was baptized social income of solidarity. "Babitiya"! The concern of the Minister of State is to table amendments with which he increasingly monitors the information himself. It's been moving on a plan since last year. The ERT Supervisory Board, appointed itself its board of directors, abolished the members of the independent authorities, passed the law that "expressed" the National Broadcasting Council, keeps private channels licenses in its hands and sets their number and the price, the starting price. Today it brings about another amendment to control information. He changes his own law, which he, Mr. Pappas, had voted on, on the way in which journalists work in the state media, who had voted for the decision to be taken and the permission to be granted after the permission of the administrative boards or councils of the agency. Now he comes in and says the criteria are going to be set by the Minister himself. So this is where clean state journalists are made. This is a very serious matter. The establishment of state journalists is completed, because everyone knows that they will be in danger of losing their second job if what they say or write does not like the Minister, who can every time set a different criterion, which he does not tell us now. For us, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of speech and information, pluralism, are an important issue. It is a matter of national pluralism, of the functioning of the democratic pluralism and we are not going to make a discount on that. Legality and pluralism will be restored. And I am not talking about pluralism as it is perceived by some governmentists, who considered that they could before the September elections of the debate between the Heads of the two parties to have preceded the presence of this publisher, who is currently arrested for blackmail, but then was good for making the political analyst at the ERT. This gentleman had left a quarter and was analyzing and plunging over the New Democracy on the day that he was the debate of the two Heads of State. Then he was good? Or is that a service to pluralism? Is he currently in charge of blackmailing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u184	The D.A. ask. What are you asking us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u185	Listen, politics is his art predicts. Getting a commentator into ERT is enough. He didn't have to be arrested. We all know each other in this country. And because we all know each other, they will be what is to be done when you decide to admit that you cannot rule. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u186	We should call the prosecutor. Your complaints to the D.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u187	Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor. Immediately afterwards I will give the floor for three minutes to Mr Flavourari to develop his amendment. Then Mr. Bukouros, Mr. Theocrat, Mr. Arvanitides, and the ministers, three MPs, one minister, will speak. Mr. Pappa, stay with us. I have unanimous support from the Members of your party. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. I would agree with my colleague that we are indeed at historic times, very difficult. I'm all imagining what the country is dealing with right now. Apart from the fact that this bill is very serious - no matter what we say - above all in the minds of all of us I think it is the difficult times that we are going through now. I just want to remind you of the facts and not of the characterizations. I would like to remind you that according to the confession of the head of FRONTEX, flows in the last three months have increased eighteen times, and also that two, three events have taken place that we should not forget. One was the terrible hit in Paris. The second was the collapse of the Russian plane in the desert of Sinai. Also, three days ago in Damascus, which until now at least was guarded, we saw terrorist blows that cost lives to tens of people. There have been two agreements, which have actually been violated before you've been voiced three times. One was on the issue of borders and Schengen. We had taken a reassurance on 6 March, which, on the initiative of Austria and four countries, is not being observed. The second is the mocking announcement by the Turkish soldiers against their civilian personnel in relation to NATO. These are the facts. We're living a reality for very tough players. For those who don't understand, all this effort is a marathon. Near the economic crisis, the migration issue is coming. I belong to those who believe that this difficult node will be overcome. Above all right, right now, we need a temper. No sense of pointless confrontation, just to seem, no meaning. I consider at least positive, at the level of refugees, the approach taken by the leaders at least by the parties on the democratic arch. To clarify the scenery a little bit, I want to say that it takes virtue and bold at this moment. He wants people calm, right, and serious. We don't forget that Germany and Angela Merkel, France and Holland and Italy are with us. We have allies. The movement of the four countries has been maximised, but I think it will have no impact. Also, be patient because I believe that NATO's participation, as it was chosen, will ultimately work positively. Some people are in a hurry to discount failures. Calm down and you'll see. As far as today's bill is concerned - to come to ours - I am one of those who I really wish governments to change at some point, but public administration can work, as happened in Italy that changed one government after another, but the state was working.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u189	EC 11-1989, point
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u190	I don't know when we're going to get to that level, but we all know that public administration was the spoil of every government, the spoil normally. Every time the government changed, sometimes the Minister, they changed everything to enable us to serve. Customer relations were registered in this country. The word democracy is nonexistent. And there comes a bill - I don't think Mr. Vernardakis will solve the problem of public administration - which is something he's offering, something he's going to do. I was also in the committee on the appointment of ELTAs and I heard an old New Democracy parliamentarian resigning the government and the Minister because, he says, the commander and advisor dares and appoints some people who are related to the party space. And I say: 'Behold, it is a glorious field. Come to the first revision of the Constitution to make a public administration which has nothing to do with parties. Come here, let's see. What do I mean? On Article 7 I have heard many speakers, such as Mr Athanasios, who said: 'What are you talking about? Secretary General to the Ministry and be selected in this way? It can't be done. You are wrong.’ They're so addicted to partyism! It's not great for me, but it's an effort to choose one of the three with the record and all of it. I mean, it's an effort in a positive direction. I think it is a first positive step. The Ministry has worked with its officers for this step. I have listened very carefully to everyone, and I would like to say that it is in the positive direction, and we in the Independent Greeks will vote in favour of it. We're not talking about it. I just want to remind you, because I heard the previous speaker talk about information and that the main issue is - the wolf, says a proverb, in the abundance - the people who came out on the streets. And don't be fooled. They didn't come to the Constitution for a hundred thousand or a million people they were talking about. Ten or fifteen thousand was, wasn't it? If there's a bigger concentration than twenty-five thousand to come and tell me. Nevertheless, we respect it. And I heard about anti-constitutionalisms and stuff else. I would like to refer to one fact in response to the previous speaker. On 16-12-2008, in the most clear way, the European Union has then justified, for those who do not know, the law for the main shareholder. The rapporteur for this decision, Mr Lenaerts, explained in great detail that the government of Costas Karamanlis and the then Minister and current President of the Republic, Mr Prokopi Pavlopoulos, was right at the time. No one learned it, not in Greece, but in this Chamber or anywhere. We were all left with the impression that this case was lost. It was a species, it is, and it remains the 20:00 card of these channels. This news was learned by no newspapers, except a small newspaper girl who sells ten thousand leaves commented on it and no one else commented on it. And it is an answer, because in two votes the then Prime Minister of the country did not come to vote. I do not want to mention Mr Meymarakis, because he may have had other reasons. How random is that? I say this because I hear too much about information, unconstitutionalism and it goes on to say. And I don't want to say any more, not to go back to the old one. I still want to make a request. Is my friend Kundura here too? Is he gone? We know that three million six hundred thousand tourists are not going to Turkey this year. We know that our consulate in Moscow is lagging behind and has no staff. We need at least a hundred and twenty people to be able to spend twelve to thirteen thousand visas a day. So Nikos Xydakis brought an amendment and is in this bill. I would ask everyone, without exception, to vote on this amendment. Let me remind you that last year was not good for us with the events that took place, the embargo, etc. We received only 550 million and nothing more and very few tourists came from 2014 and 2015, when over three hundred thousand Russians came. This year it is up to us, if we are working properly with this amendment, to be able to hire the fifty-one seasonal staff for eight months - which we all have to vote on in this House - so that we have revenues not of 1.3 million, but perhaps 2 billion from the turnout of the Russian tourists. I don't want to say any more. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u191	And we thank you for the time economy. Mr Flamouraris, I assume you want the floor for your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u192	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u193	Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u194	Before defending the amendment, I would like to make a reference to an observation or remark made on the part of the Officerate, concerning the content of today's work and the previous one. In other words, there is the idea that, to the extent that we have terrible problems, either in relation to refugees or in relation to the issues of relations with the institutions, we should not go ahead with what is necessary, so that the state and society can actually function and public administration. I think it is a pointless opposition tactic. If we really want to move forward and deal with the difficult period that our country is going through, we need to look at these issues with a greater effort to deepen the problem. In relation to the two amendments: one is simple. Both amendments are to harmonise the officials and procedures of the Secretariat-General for Coordination with the new bill and with the provisions in the new draft law. One amendment has been priced. It's too little money. For one year it is about 13,000 euros to 20,000 euros. The amendment relates to the harmonisation of overtime for officials of the General Secretariat with the officials of the General Secretariat of the Government, the General Secretariat of the Prime Minister, because - and I would like to stress - the officials of the General Secretariat, who have to take part in almost all the arrangements necessary to operate in their presence have a constant concern. That is why we are proposing that overtime be brought into line with what I have just said. I tell you that their tariff does not exceed EUR 15 000 to EUR 20,000 per year. The second amendment concerns the selection of staff to the General Secretariat. So far it's been easy to sort. Some were appointed. The General Secretariat is a new agency. In 2013 it was created. In a simple opinion of the Executive Board, the Head of the service concerned was appointed. We, with this amendment, propose that this should not be done, but through evaluation, which is also proposed by the Minister with the new draft law. First of all, we think that this is how we really harmonize ourselves with the needs that exist. Secondly, it comes about, or we are also seeking to have dignity in the Secretariat-General. Finally, we believe, through the cooperation of these five bodies, which will be the ones to judge the public officials, that they should also apply to the Secretariat-General. In this sense, therefore, I also think that I also propose to the New Democracy - which I heard has refused and proposed that these amendments should be withdrawn - to see them better. You will see that you must accept them too and say that we will all move on to this issue together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, too, Minister. I will also agree with your introduction, but I am sure that you will agree that the country is at its most difficult time since the relocation, and then not necessarily because of the respective rulers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u196	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u197	The latest events have brought things this way. That is why all of us must be very concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u198	I fully agree with what you say, Mr President. I think, however, that the government, which is not just concerned, but very concerned, seriously and with its international contacts, is trying to deal with this very critical issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u199	Okay. I have put the whole question of him in the political system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u200	However, what we all have to realise is that we must bear the responsibility where they really are and not ascribed to where they do not exist. In other words, when we know very well that the flows are not dependent on us, our government should not be condemned because yesterday, for example, there were four thousand refugees who entered our borders.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u201	Good. Let's not open the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u202	The only solution, which if you suggest it to discuss - we do not accept - is that we should not let boats come. And there's one way to pierce them. We're not going to do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u203	Okay. To avoid any impression, no one says that in this Chamber. In any case, I imagine that the Prime Minister and the Heads will be placed on this. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and four educational sessions from the 3rd Patras High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Bukouros has the floor. I'm sorry about the delay, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd start differently. However, I was given the opportunity to make a point. Minister, no one accuses the SYRIZA Government of increasing the refugee flows. For their management we accuse you as you show a total lack of ability to plan. Yesterday, the national road was filled with caravans of occupied refugees, who could not go north to Idomen nor return south to Athens. In the Magnesia Prefecture, in the AA Almyros, they complete forty - eight hours over five hundred abandoned refugees. So for lack of planning, we blame you. Let me come to the bill. ‘Transparency’, ‘objectivity’, ‘efficiency’. Nice words, high targets. But it is very ambitious, gentlemen of the government, to believe that you will conquer them or even to serve these principles and values with the bill we are discussing today. You have shown a talent to bring bills with heavy titles, "pigs" as we say in the journalistic language, but rarely - if not ever - respond to the contents of the bills. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] But what is the problem, ladies and gentlemen? Let's be honest. Five years before the completion of two centuries from the national revolution of our regeneration and the great patient remains the Greek state. Indeed, it is. The responsibilities are both time-consuming and comprehensive, but against the Greek public. Why don't you, gentlemen, make sure that you come from virginity and that you don't have some political ancestors who ruled this place or participated in any way in the rule of this place. Unless the SYRIZA ANLL government is some Neffelims who came from the overhead or some unknown galaxy and have no responsibility for this place. It's not like that. Our responsibilities are important, they are great. We dare and do the self-criticism now from the position of Officership. However, let you not be missed, Mr Ministers, that we were judged by the Greek people - as you are proud of - three times in 2015. The question is what you're doing as rulers. The title of the bill therefore does not correspond in any way to its content. I do not want to go into detail with the articles and the provisions of the bill, because our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative have completely covered us. I would like, Minister, to refer to a provision which does not exist in the bill. Yeah, well, you're listening to a provision that doesn't exist in the bill! Of course, I am not talking about what you have had to withdraw. I am referring to a provision which, in my humble view, should be the cornerstone of this draft law, which is supposed to be aimed at the state being partisan. It would suffice, Minister, to have a single restrictive provision, which would restrict Member States, parliamentarians, former ministers, to occupying high-ranking positions in the hierarchy of public administration, Secretary-General positions, President-in-Office positions, and director-General positions. Of course, as well as vice versa. In other words, a provision which limited for a sufficient period general managers, members of administrations, presidents of agencies, and Secretary-General to be in the central political scene and self-government. Do not deceive yourself, Minister, centuries of habits do not change with a bill. Each president of an organization, who wants to be civilized or who aims to be civilized, does not look at the organization but on the mechanism that he creates in order to be elected. After hearing many praises from SYRIZA colleagues for this proposal, which I have tabled to the committees, I have not seen anything to do. That would be what would cut the umbilical cord between the state and the party. You don't! You don't dare! You are talking about areas, but you do not show political audacity. This has been a constant demand for society for decades, Minister. And we could all agree to prove that the political system is determined to change the country and that it does not take us any more, as our youth says, to continue in the same way. Your bill is 'low flight' bill. It doesn't change much. There is an obsession in the public sector, from which you will draw executives. But if you really believed in the philosophy surrounding this bill, why didn't you apply it? Why didn't you even apply this practice before the bill? How many executives, how many civil servants, more than a year you are ruling, have you placed in so-called 'political positions'? Nobody! What are you trying to do? Let's not hide, Minister. You're trying to create a party army for ever. This is what you are trying to do, through the criteria that you set in 2018, to force a share of the world that can take these positions whether you are government or not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In politics, however, it is more dynamic, Minister. I don't want to say any more about the bill. However, when you ask for a consensus on the major problems faced by the country, such as refugee, economic, agricultural, should not be subject to matters of a lower political level, such as that, to seek consensus? You're not accepting anything. You don't hear anything. You're strictly committed to what you've decided from the beginning. How will a climate of consensus be created to deal with the greatest, escalating and urgent problems facing our country today? To close, as I started, I will only tell you that two of SYRIZA's colleagues tabled an amendment to the Special Needs Forums, which was rejected yesterday. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me a minute, Madam President. I would ask you to accept it. It was tabled by colleagues from Magnesia and Kilkis. We will support it, too, because there is a real problem in the operation of these centres, which exist only in Volos and Kilkis. As I told you at the beginning of my position, Mr Minister and Mr Flamburaris, we are accusing you of the management. They now say the ministers on the right and the left: "We will build new hot spots, we will build new open press hosting centres". We are talking about a hidden design - local communities are not informed - and as a result these hidden designs create greater reactions and conspiracy than a clear design that the Greek people would know about. We have the example of Volos and Larissa. Volos knows of refuge and will take over the burden he owes him. However, a burden, such as the refugee for the country, Prime Ministers, the more he shares the lighter it becomes. And I don't see that happening, because micro-local pressures, micro-political planning and all that. The planning should be more perfect and more transparent, the Greek people should be informed, so that we can do our duty and what they think of us - and even more! - to avoid the impression that some areas are overloaded and others are wronged and so on. It is a typical example of our own region. As a whole, society will bear the burden it deserves. But we said the shared weight, Mr Ministers, is lighter. You should think about that, because we do not know what will be the dynamics of the development of the problem, as we do not know what we will be dealing with tomorrow for this bomb that came into our hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u205	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u206	What do you want, Mr. Flambury?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u207	As my colleague referred to us, Madam President, I would like to say two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u208	If all the ministers who are here take the floor, Madam President, we are done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u209	Let's hear what the Minister has to say!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u210	We'll talk tomorrow!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u211	I'll only say two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u212	The speaker wishes to hear what the Minister will say. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u213	I would like to remind you that over the past twenty days Europe, which has been with humanity, with dignity, has been congratulating us, because within a very short period of time we have responded to the needs and hundreds of thousands of refugees have passed from Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u214	Minister, the highway was full of refugees yesterday. How did you respond? They afflict themselves in the sun and the weather!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u215	I'm telling you what's happened. And the second is that we're really done. You're a month ago. Hot spots have been finished on the islands and open hospitality centers and on Diavatas, both in Shhisto and in the Botanic. That's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u216	You must be ignoring the reality, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u217	Don't say things that concern a month ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u218	Didn't you see the images yesterday, Minister? Didn't you see people walk on the highway?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u219	Come on, Mr Colleague, we won't have a dialogue now. We will have the opportunity to discuss this because it is a very serious matter. Thank you, Minister. Mr. Theocratic has the floor. I shall then give the floor to Mr Pappas for three minutes for the amendment. Here, Mr. Hostguard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this bill and the attitude of all political parties demonstrate the difference of philosophy. This must be seen by the entire Greek people, but above all by the civil servants, whom they are concerned. It is clear that the conservative party, namely the New Democracy, is facing the civil servant from a position of power and "power" and with a sense of punishment and authoritarianness. She proved it, and as long as she was in power, she is now proving it with her positions. On the other hand, our government and our political area have a friendly approach to the public service, which it considers - and we will see it in detail, I shall refer in particular to the provisions of evaluation - as a partner. However, this is not just our current legislative initiative. It is also in the hands of civil servants to gain, by their behaviour, the participation and the concept of a partner. Where, for example, there are provisions for plenary sessions and for targeting, involving civil servants, if they are not implemented by the civil servants themselves, they will remain a letter blank. Of course, I imagine, on the Department's side, we'll have circulars or possible public service seminars. Yet again, because we have lived with the public administration and have seen that in the past there have been efforts, with good intentions, which have been left blank, the civil servants themselves - and I address them themselves - each individual in their professional space and with their trade unions, to gain what we are giving them today. And, of course, we have no idealism but the promotion of public services. Let everyone put it right in their minds. That's what we're interested in, and that's what we're doing today. And let it not be invoked by the opposition - supposedly - in the private sector, who has been sanked by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. There was no private sector. There was a distorting growth in the private sector. Let us be told how the recruitment took place in the banks or even in the supermarkets: with intervention from the Members of Parliament and from the Member States. Did the private companies ever get a call? - Folders to be qualified? Nothing! It was a complexion with the political system. As to the alleged investments they invoke? It wasn't investment, it was plundering. CLINTON DAVIS, Member of the Commission. — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent report. Is that the private sector? It is therefore ending the status of the working age, which the previous government has tried to impose on the public sector. It ends the witch hunt launched by the previous government against civil servants. It concludes that for everything it is the public, which ceases and is the scapegoat for all the sufferings of the crisis. That is why only the announcement of the logic of quotas for Mr Mitsotakis' office has offered. He'd blown up all the public. We live in this country and live it: all the services were broken up. An intense climate of suspicion was created, a pussy among the employees, a strife, a mock-up, a development of trading relationships and a rouspheological logic between existing and overseers. And, of course, this has dismantled the performance of services, which is now institutionally stopping and, indeed, is being reversed. But that is the logic of the conservative party, its logic is "different and ruled". On the contrary, we look at the better provision of the public service to the citizen. In particular, for the evaluation, it is not linked to available and redundancies, no quotas are provided. This logic - other colleagues have said - adopted in America in the 1980s failed and rejected. Evaluation is not punishing, it's not self-centered. For the first time, an evaluation is foreseen and the head of the existing ones, as is also provided for a monitoring mechanism for ratings and ratings. We therefore have a clear staffing dimension. First of all, we see the officials as friendly, conscientious and professionally responsible, who are now qualified - especially the younger - and not indifferent, irritable, etc. I would like to briefly pick up the provisions on the evaluation of Articles 15 to 24. Evaluators are the two hierarchical heads. The evaluation report shall include the qualifications and training of the staff member, a summary description of the work of the organisation group, a summary description of the work of the assessor, the elements of the interview and the rating according to the subject's knowledge, service relationships, behaviour and effectiveness, these are for those who are existing. It's for the bosses, plus the administrative skills. Also, there are insurance systems, that when we have a low score, it must necessarily be justified and founded. In fact, it is established in accordance with Article 17(15) and the Monitoring and Statistical Analysis Directorate, which is activated in particular when it sees consistently excellent or consistently low ratings. And in this is wrong, the opposition that says they will all be rated "excellent", because there will be exactly the address that will do this job. Now, I would like to have time, given what the Minister, Mr Kourublis, has said today, in Article 24, that, for the first time, there is the citizen and the social and professional bodies involved in the evaluation of services, to stand up for even two minutes in the Environment and Energy Minister's amendment number 217 and a specialist number 2, for the system of allocation of revenue from the auctioning of unavailable greenhouse gas emission rights for the period 2016-2020. This is a proper regulation. However, it should take into account - either in this amendment or in the next few years - the destruction that has been created in the laws that have been implemented by PPC S.A... These prefectures are the Kozanis, Florina, Arcadias. In our opinion - we have discussed and agreed all five energy municipalities - a proportion of these indisposable emissions, whether in the form of projects or numerically, to make available for the environmental restoration and relocation of our areas that have been destroyed by PPC's activity over the last few decades, whose productive model has been exactly opposite to what we call the'sustainable model'. He ran robbery in our areas, destroyed the aquifers, destroyed the future existence of our areas. This future is the present. The post-linguistic era in our regions has come a unique opportunity to find financial instruments channelled to the environmental restoration of our regions. It is to channel a certain percentage from the system of allocation of greenhouse gas emissions to our regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u221	Thank you. Mr. Pappas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u222	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to stress that it is very strange for the Greek Government to listen to praise and congratulations abroad on how the refugee is managed, all in Europe to blame other governments for the turn in relation to the borders, and within the country the opposition to blame only the Greek Government. I think it's a very sensitive issue, and here we're gonna have to run out...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u223	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u224	Don't interrupt. ...we'll have to exhaust our responsibility in relation to how we handle it. I would now like to say a few words about the amendments and the criticism that has been heard about the National Centre for Audiovisual Media. First of all, it has been passed by Law No.4339/2015, the Law on the licensing of private television stations. There's been steps. Our aim is to operate in the year without, of course, charging the budget, operating with posted civil servants and without costing the Greek citizen. There's been criticism of the file. I must inform the Member from Potami - if I am not mistaken - who has launched some criticism arrows that we are again going to check what is produced on television, that the archiving infrastructure of all the programmes that are broadcast in Greece also has private stations at the moment. It's a good technology, it's good to file, to be able to recall. If - let's say - it thrives on the attempt to set up the National Broadcasting Council, a single and structured file can be the source on which the National Broadcasting Council is guided to withdraw, see the programmes and assess whether it should charge fines or not. So don't make things big. The other amendment concerns the internal functioning of the Secretariat-General for Information. I thank the Minister for accepting it. I wouldn't want to stand. All I can say is that we have had twenty-year or over-year-old staff from the General Secretariat in foreign press offices, which is unacceptable, because, as this House sees, they lose all contact with Greece and very difficult to fulfil. On the subject of parallel employment, I was very surprised to hear criticism, indeed. Because both the Secretariat-General and the other departments, such as the RES or the ERT, have had the phenomenon of folding and slow pay. It is not possible here and before the Greek people to do that they did not exist. We are trying to make the regulation and say that anyone who wants to have a second job must not be competitive with the basic, with their main job and with a service of no more than 50% of their total gain from main employment. Why is that bad? Aren't we aware of the phenomena that some just signed up to their service and took their day off to the private company on which they were working? Why is that bad? The Minister will not decide who can do that, but the rules will be uniform. I call on the opposition to open a serious dialogue, to gather and discuss - obviously not before the House - and to see what rules they really need to apply. I fear that opposition to the concept of reform only remembers it when it governs and is ready to cut wages and pensions. For those reforms which promote equality, rules and regulations in Greece, we have promoted them and do not support them. Did the Opposition support the TV landscape regulation bill? How far will this draft law, which actually puts public administration in a new phase? Why don't we just want the channels cleared? I don't understand. Who are those who are going to operate with the sea loans? Parenthesis, too. Who are those who are going to get the advertising of public bodies through smuggling online schemes? And for the Internet registry, we have heard criticism that regulation agrees with us, and the Internet Information Business Association and the Association of Advertising Greeks, so that we do not have blackmail. Do we dare to be honorers in here? For these blackmailers, who now threaten mothers alone with children, also had wings under which they were warmed up in the past. There is no longer room for blackmailers and there is no room for blackmailers, because the political leadership is determined, it is effective the leadership of the Ministry of Public Order and the officers of the Greek Police are also worthy. It's over and over! There is no room for such phenomena. Anyone who wants to access public advertising will enter the register, have VAT, have a name, have an address, have workers, have employment relationships, and then he will have a right, yes, to knock on the door, officially and transparently, and the public bodies to get advertising. For there are not only the blackmailers of the underworld, but there are also the blackmailers who think they live and circulate in living rooms, but these supposed living lounges, the imaginary lounges, are the vulgar in which they have learned to live and make their blackmails and their assholes. Let them understand that things have changed. So much the best for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u225	Now Mr Arvanitides has the floor, which I would ask, if not to limit his time, to exhaust it in seven minutes, because after Mr Arvanitidis there are five minutes. Don't complain, Mr. Santorinier. Forty speakers, Ministers, will also speak party leaders. It's not an end to talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u226	Five minutes, Mr. Arvanitides and seven me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u227	As you wish, my dear colleague. I've never had a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u228	And parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u229	And parliamentary representatives. I told you. Try. We all work here for the same reason. Mr Arvanitides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to agree with Minister Pappa that refugee flows are a problem which needs national understanding and goes beyond the scope of a government. Of course, this was also the suggestion made by our President, Mrs Fofis, on the convening of the Council of Political Heads. And, of course, I would remind Mr. Flamouraris, because I have to do it, as he referred to Diavatas and the open hospitality centre, since 2009 was the mayor of the region, that it works, yes, from today this centre, but it is impressive how people feel in the region, whom we accused of, when the Minister of Civil Protection of the Government, Mr. Toskas, informed them that the choice between the points proposed by the mayors, had to be because the area was a cheap, degraded area and that it was impossible to go to another area, because the other areas are resident by patriotics and not by the people of Western Thessaloniki, the people of work. We pay particular attention to the phenomenon of racism in Greek society, but there is also internal racism, which is equally dangerous. I have waited with interest, ladies and gentlemen, for today's debate. The big patient will try another treatment in one of the things that's been hurting for years. The release of public administration by parties is a bet which many have put in this country, but few have managed to win. The establishment of the AACC in 1994 by the late Anastasios Pepongis is an extremely good example for those who really want to fight this battle. You, Minister, Mr. Bernardakis, probably don't want to. That is why, instead of trying a real cure, you attempt doctors, which you know beforehand will not work. You are trying to flatter public administration officials, knowing that many of the regulations are inappropriate, as the Committee points out in its report and many of the bodies that we heard in the committee. But let's start with the basics. In order to fulfil its real role, public administration must be surrounded by the confidence of the political leadership concerned. What are you doing? Just the opposite. You are constantly transferring the administration's powers to the ministers on a number of sensitive issues. Last and most recent example is the new framework in the media, in which the powers of an independent authority were transferred to the Minister. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what we can call it? What kind of card trust in the institutions? What is the point of trying with one hand to solve the problems of the administration when you are stripping it from the responsibilities it owes and must exercise it? Trust in the institutions has become trustworthy to friends, and this is clearly seen in the first part of the bill, in which you propose a new system for selecting general secretaries and administrations of public legal persons. If someone reads the articles in question, it will find that this is partly a worthwhile attempt. Indeed, the establishment of the Executive Directors’ register could conditionally contribute to the continuation of the public administration, to the strengthening of its institutional memory and its effectiveness. But if you see the finest letters, the treasure proves carbon once again. The government is proposing to implement the new system, what it is calling us today to vote, only on vacant posts and not on all positions, that is, on those who, in particular, have chosen for the previous period. The official excuse of the Minister is that this transitional period is given so that the administrations and the work they carry out are not violently interrupted. When, Mr. Vernardakis, your government ripped out the administrations throughout the public sector to put SYRIZA parties, wasn't that a criterion? You have unsuccessful administrations at the moment that they were doing important work to help friends and relatives. In the PSE, you have raised the whole of its composition, even though for many members their term of office had not expired. Now did the pain catch you? If you really mean what you say, apply these provisions from tomorrow, and even allow successful executives and the private sector to enter the register. The knowledge and experience they have can make a significant contribution, unless you think that the public holds an absolute knowledge of everything and does not need anyone's help. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to expand. After all, our rapporteur has covered all matters. Anyone can draw their conclusions. But because, Minister, we are not only critical, but we are also well aware, I would like to point out that the regulations of Article 26, following the legislative improvements you have put forward, regulate an outstanding situation for the workers at Papageorgiou Hospital in Thessaloniki. In particular, their pre-service is recognised in the hospital as a real public service, and rightly so, since the recruitments at the Papageorgiou Hospital are made via ASP, the hospital is funded by the state budget and is owned by the HSY. In addition, as far as I know, a number of judicial decisions have been adopted which justify the appealing officials. Minister, there is yet another matter of openness, which could regulate this draft law. IKA today serves a hundred and thirteen employees as security staff. The subjectmatter of their speciality tends to be eliminated, since no more cash missions are carried out, and for the protection and security needs of the units of the institution are employed by officials of other specialties. Since the Agency has a huge shortage of administrative staff, you could use those officials who have the corresponding capabilities, excluding them from the restrictive provisions of Article 17 of Law 2622/1998. In fact, as far as I know, your question has been raised in writing by the administration of the institution. Finally, Article 39 restores an injustice and arrhythmia of the administration, for which we had fought as PASOK since 2006 with questions by colleagues Vassilis Kegeroglou and Giannis Koutsoukos and the recent attempt by Mrs Christophilopoulou. I close with one sentence: 'If you don't look where you have to go, you'll just go where you're looking.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Santorinios has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly impressive that all Parliament's wings have recently become late lovers of the Thessaloniki programme. We hear it a lot. Well, this bill comes to implement the fourth pillar of the programme, the pillar for restoring democracy, the pillar for democracy, for restoring the credibility of the public sector. Many, of course, will tell us - and above all the JRC - that this bill is a Memorandumary cheque. However, these Memorandum cheques also had them by previous governments, but it was this percentage of the memorial that they were exiling, because it did not serve them, because they wanted a spoiled state, a public administration that was endless, which made it difficult for the citizen and simply served the truce. For Mr. Mitsotakis, the Chief of Officer's Response, the evaluation was only one fear and one way to get rid of people who were not in their system. After all, it is no coincidence that the assessment did not stand in the way of Mr Mitsotakis a few days before the Genoa elections to change all senior public administration personnel and, at the same time, try to make party commanders unmovable. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today attempts to put an end to the dreadful way in which the previous governments historically managed public administration from post-mopulation to this day. The state that has been created does not suit the European data, which you constantly invoke, nor does it respond to the needs of modern society. The public suffered and suffered for years from the partisan rule, inexperience, centralism, bureaucracy and lack of targeting. The one-sided treatment of the public as a supportive tool of the political power has, at the same time, raised outside of the administration, systems of corruption and dependence, which were launched by the well-known "fast" systems, passed through the Koutsogiorg's cartons and reached the uplifting of governors and managers with the known "4-2-1" system. This inefficient state bears the signature of your own governments. You've made the public your backyard. But that's as far as it goes. We will defend both the principle of public administration and the staff working on it and the citizen who wants public ally and not an enemy. This bill introduces three basic innovations aimed at restoring the administrative status of the Greek State. We shall have a transparent procedure from now on to serve responsibility. The Staff Register shields staff who are qualified to ensure that they do not become a prey to anxiocracy. However, the institutional status of positions is much more shielded. The National Register of Civil Service Administrators is set up and maintained electronically by the AACC, which is what effectively makes the selection of staff with absolute transparency. Our draft law describes such an evaluation system, which from the existing to the highest levels of public administration will be assessed on the basis of objective and measurable criteria. The two-way evaluation system aims to make as objective a crisis as possible, since there are little cases where their existing, regardless of their service capacity, were favoured or degraded according to the political wishes of some. The introduction of targeting, on the one hand, will give the outline and, on the other hand, the incentive that was lacking in public services, and on the other hand, it will give meaning and substance to the evaluation, which is nothing but effective administration and the service of the citizen. This bill also introduces an entirely objective and merital system for selecting heads and senior officials at all levels of public administration with transparency and objectivity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute more, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill shows the different concept of public administration. When you move your finger to us for the appointments of fellow Members and Ministers, from today you must turn it on yourself. Today we are putting an end to the party state that you have built for forty years. Today we are legislating a public administration that is reputable and effective in the service of the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr Santorinier. Mr. Stephen has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing and are going to vote today on a bill on the structure and functioning of the public administration, a bill that aims to make it effective through transparent and pragmatic processes of its operation. There is no one in this Chamber who can question that decades in the public administration have now dominated the functional introversion of its services, customer relations, the growth of corruption, the partisanisation of the choice of management. Not long ago, of course, to be appointed to the public, you had to be a party to the New Democracy or the PASOK. A little earlier you had to have a social care certificate. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, by tabling this bill, attempts to close the vicious cycle of administrative closure and bureaucratic outrage that led to the loss of citizens' confidence in public institutions. The main axes of the proposed reform project are the National Register of Executives, a fair evaluation system and not the monster that Mr.Mitsotakis tried to introduce, when he was Minister, the correct graduation structure and the respective promotional system and, finally, the aptitude system for the selection of heads. The establishment of the National Register of Officers is for the first time attempted in the history of the Greek state to completely eliminate all kinds of customer relations between the political system and the upper tier of the public administration. It is also a leading and historic reform, in addition to this establishment of the ADP. The National Staff Register is mainly addressed to the public officials' bodies for two main reasons. The first reason is that the government trusts the executive capacity of public bodies, the experience of workers in it and their skills, their scientific establishment, and considers that it is possible to staff the administrative pyramid from the innermost of civil servants, not only with staff scientificly adequate but also honest work. In both the committee responsible and here in plenary today, the criticism was made of opposition to exclude competent people from the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the examples of interaction between the private and public sectors in recent decades, apart from the practice of dialogue that has demonstrated, have shown a reduced sense of responsibility and functioned as incubators of corruption in too many cases at the expense of the public sector. The second reason relates to our political will to transform general structures into an effective and rationally functioning administrative mechanism. What body can be better if it does not itself define the methods and rules of internal operation and development, while ensuring maximum internal cooperation? I will now say a few words about the new evaluation system. For the first time with the new evaluation system, there is the possibility of a substantial crisis of the effectiveness of public services and their executives, not to dismiss workers, as Mr Mitsotakis wanted - let us not forget 15%, 20%, 'it is okay if some civil servants are fired' - but to produce and implement public policies aimed at real social and economic needs. The system of evaluation, introduced, is a tool to highlight the advantages and treatment of the weaknesses of public services. Our aim is to improve the human resources of public administration. This is how we move from the regime that was dominated - sometimes horror of redundancies, sometimes impunity with the cover - to the regime of participatory and productive development that the country needs. I think it's a bill that might need improvements in the future. However, it is part of public affairs and for the first time sets the foundations for a public administration independent. Before I finish, I would like to make a political comment, which is timely. I find it awkward to see the positions of the selective members of the New Democracy. Obviously the previous fourteen months have invested in chaos theory: this government will be leaving in three months, this government will be leaving in six months, the referendum will be defeated, the elections will be defeated. Today you are discussing the refugee issue, for which, in any of the Members' speeches within the House or outside the House, I did not see a solution proposed. What exactly do you want us to do, when Europe's top politicians have submitted their opinion, which is in favour of Greece? I recently said in a speech of mine - and with all due respect to repeat it - that we may not be going to church all the time and often, but we have the man and the 'love one another' within our soul. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Stephoe. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-six students and three educational attendants from the 1st PAL Farcadonas Trikalos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Igoumenides has the floor for five minutes. Mr. Igoumenides, I've had you a few seconds. I'll give you extra time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently witnessed a series of individual, but extreme and anti-democratic acts of the 'Karfica' type, including the confrontation of Members. And because it concerns me personally, I would like to dwell on four points: Firstly, such individual actions neither express nor come from the farmers' movement and the conquests of the wider people's movement to date. I'd say the opposite. Such actions misrepresented the struggle and turned against the movement. Secondly, yesterday, the spokesman of the Central Union Party said - and I read from the Minutes of the House: 'As I referred to the farmers, there is also the video on how farmers treated Evnos and how they treated your colleague who went out on 'KRIT TV'. They didn't treat me like that by going for "CRITE TV". They were waiting for me when I got out after the end of the news report. Probably the depth of the political analysis of the party representative of the Union of Centres is simply reaching the fact that completely spontaneously from various parts of Heraklion Prefecture were found there fifteen, twenty people. Let me take it. Okay, they just wanted to see the news outside the channel. The channel cameras, what were they waiting for, after I spoke to them in there just now? Mr Kaklamanis responded to his position at that time. Its position covers me completely, and that is why I did not ask for the floor yesterday. However, Mr. Georgiadis continues: "I have a solution for you on how you can get through the roadblocks. Right now, since the Trio opens, since Halloween comes, you can come out and get the president's masks." It doesn't make any sense to testify to it in the Minutes. It's one of the minutes of yesterday's sitting. I don't know, Mr. Georgiades, if you're using the center mask to cover your acrobacy with fascist perceptions! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I do not know whether your hopeless attempt to substantiate your anti-SYRIZA position leads you to play again - because you and yourself have done so personally - with the egg of the snake, with your attitude of engaging in fascist behaviors. However, this is not a personal matter, because this position was made by you as a party representative. So, apart from personally having to withdraw, I think that your party should also have your party with the President - and I will expect it - to condemn such fascism and such attitudes as yours. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thirdly, as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, many of the media and locally, I mean Crete, and with a whole range of Greeks, have asked for my opinion. However, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that such events really threaten democracy and cannot therefore be the object or tool for increasing television viewing. That's why my conscious choice of not answering any channels. That is why my conscious choice to respond from the Step of Parliament, if you like, and the glove that the party representative of the so-called Centres has thrown away. Ladies and gentlemen, my small personal journey is open to everyone and anyone who sees it can understand that, on this route from my student years, I do not subject to pressure, I do not subject myself to extortion and the threats from wherever they come from. I have also learned on this route to subdue part to general, minority to majority. All those who through my anticipated retreat to their horrors seek to destabilise the government's majority and trigger possible political developments, let them hear this from me too. They're addressing the wrong person! [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Madam President, I'm closing. Give me some time, even on staff. The government's majority, the government, which is the left, neither risked nor would be at risk from me. That is my political position, that is my position, and that is why I shall be judged by our people. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I will obviously not go into the bill at all - to express a great thank you from this point of view, in this wave, the tsunami - I would say - of support, which I have received last week. It is a world of our fellow citizens, institutions from local government, from the trade union movement, from farmers from the region of Heraklion, people who, if you like, exceed the political limits of SYRIZA and I really thank them for that. At the same time as this wave of support, I accept an effort and a desire for people to express their disapproval in this extreme anti-democratic behaviour. To these people, I'd like to introduce a temper. In the difficult times, at critical historical times - and such, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is the ones we are living for - we have a duty to keep the most sober, calm and socially most useful attitude. I think we have a duty to safeguard democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Risulis has the floor. And please take care of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Madam President. The draft law on the modernisation of the public administration is a reform section for the Greek reality. In this proposal, I have used the word'strengthening' for one single reason, because we have heard a great deal about merit, from CSR, mainly, and here we have to compare the term'strengthening' which they have actually used all the previous years. And I don't get it from the Transmigration, but from the last five, six years. For the first time, the scope of the public administration is regulated in a uniform, systematic and comprehensive way. I will not go into the areas and the axes, as many of my colleagues have spoken so far and time is short. But if we do not forget, I will say something again that the Prime Minister has said from this Step and many of my colleagues yesterday in the House. The logic of evaluation and behaviour in public by the opposition was shown by the President of the New Democracy Kyriakos Mitsotakis. We'll say it and we'll talk about it again. What was the logic? We are reaping Heads of Administration, in order to put our own people in charge, and today we are talking about evaluation and whether the SYRIZA government's bill will find ways to put its own people. It is also a bill aimed at a worthy selection of executives and not a pretext to lead to redundancies. And I am addressing Mr Voridis, who spoke for 15% yesterday. And those who were in public at the time - I at school, others in local government and elsewhere - when that famous assessment came - fired, we sat down and said: How many are we in school? Twenty? Twenty-five percent does three. Let's go find out who's going to get out of here. The same happened in all the public. Fortunately, some directors have stood up to them, whether in schools or elsewhere, and we have not signed it and have not signed it and many who have been used by the government since then to intimidate civil servants, based on the famous 15%, for which I would very much like Mr Vorides to see it. What was the target of this 15%? To catch the budgetary targets. It wasn't meant to improve public administration. It was aimed at cutting wages and kicking off the world in any way, discovering incompetent and useless in public pretexts, so that we can get it over with the budgets. And ask a simple question now. If he left that 15% of schools and local government, what would happen in the intervening period? We had sixty, seventy, a hundred thousand teachers and would leave 15%, as was the case with the public administration. Where would that go? This would go where the real goal was to transfer social benefits, public goods, education, health. Watch out now. What did the Vice-President of the New Democracy say in his interview? "If I find surpluses from the unification of EPPY and health centres, I will obviously fire them. I will not leave the glory to Tomsen.” He said "if" to justify him. Here the glory in politics is won, according to the New Democracy, by redundancies. If you fire people and throw him out, then you get glory. And that's what happened from the previous government? How it didn't happen! Professional education: We didn't have to evaluate the structure there. We're done with it at once, we kicked out the teachers on the street, we shut down the schools, and what happened to the kids? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll hang up with this. I don't have time to say it all. What about the kids going to school? There's private education. For everything? Oh, no. For what they can pay. The others? He talked about class hate. What a worse class hate than leaving children without vocational training and telling them to go to private. What about what they didn't have to pay? That is the logic of both society and the functioning of the public. I'm closing up with this proposal. The government and the left have confidence in the country's human resources and the public administration's world. That is why the institutional instruments are creating to secure its place in an environment of transparency and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Risouli. Now Mr. Emmanoulidis has the floor. He's not here. Mr Christos Antoniou has the floor. I request that the five-minute speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be brief. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, we are discussing a bill that aspires to represent a critical sector in our country, such as the public administration. The pathogens of the area are well known, they have been identified by everyone and, above all, by the recipients of services, which are the citizens of this country. Excessive bureaucracy, pluralism, anxiety, lack of developmental logic are only some of the symptoms of space. We have a state which is fundamentally difficult to fulfil in its role. Who is responsible for this situation may not be the time to analyse it. We can, however, point out that it is just these political forces that have ruled this place for too many decades. But to describe the problems is not a solution. We need to take decisions towards introducing a serious reformist effort towards a modern public administration that can respond to the new era, to new conditions and be the country's development arm. The first priority is the fight against the party and the client state. Public administration, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be regarded as the spoil of the respective authority. It cannot be a place of party competition and a place of reproduction and expansion of party power. It needs to blow new air, pass a different logic, lay rules in a direction where the state will be next to the citizen, alongside the social and productive actors and away from reasonable party manipulation. For these reasons, there is a need for a serious section of the way in which the intellectual potential of the public administration and its bodies is managed and promoted by the adoption of rules of transparency and dignity. In this direction he comes to answer this bill. What are the elements that can change the logic and mode of operation of the State and how does this draft law respond? Starting from the top of the pyramid, a serious reform section is the National Register of Executives, drawn up by transparent and aptitude processes. In this register, the Ministries and the public bodies at the level of the Secretary-General and Governors, who have so far been political persons from the government concerned, will be appointed. It is one of the most serious reforms introduced into public administration in recent years and can change and affect the entire operation of the administrative pyramid of public bodies. It is a reform of the relevant level with the introduction of the AACC. This is where the New Democracy colleagues must respond to a contradiction. On the one hand, they oppose the establishment of the Executive Register, insisting that the Secretary-General should be political, party and, on the other hand, they want immediate implementation of the register. It is up to you to decide what you want, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. But there is also the people who listen and judge. It is also a serious section of the evaluation and social control system. In the system of evaluation of civil servants and civil servants for the first time, reasonable two-way assessments are introduced from the top to the bottom, but from the bottom. Through the full-collection sections - addresses, democratic control and collective responsibility and effort are introduced to achieve the objectives of each service and each sector, as set out and judged by proposals and ideas, the best way of carrying out the work of the service units. Finally, innovation introduced by the bill is social control by receivers of public administration services, i.e. by citizens and social bodies through public hearing and other arrangements introduced. This reduces and weakens the affinity of the introvert and self-reliance of the service units, and now becomes aware that the purpose of the public administration is to serve the citizen and society and not the employees. An important element that is also introduced is the targeting of services. The targeting, control and evaluation of service units in general as to the extent of the achievement of the objectives is a technical management and administration that has been introduced by the private sector of the economy and is applied to the public services of most European countries. The whole process has elements of democratic planning, since implementation planning and control involve all levels of administration through the plenary sessions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a point and an appeal to all sides. We have lost enough ground as a country because of the poor state of public administration. It is time to agree on some basic principles and some basic axes, so that the area of state administration and the wider public sector remains outside the field of party competition. The reforms proposed by this bill should be the starting point for a modern, democratic, effective public administration in the service of economic and social development in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are voting on today comes to put public administration on a new track. It is a common finding for all of us both in and out of the Chamber that this malicious, malicious public you have made, gentlemen of Anti-Population, and you have treated yourself in the most horrendous way all these years, has two structural problems: partyisation and bureaucracy. This is summarised in all that we have been living in the past years and has to do with your insistence on entering private individuals' registers in the private sector. That's what you've done for so many years. At the same time, the fact is that all previous years there have been legislative initiatives, others of which have been passed and partly implemented, and others have not been withdrawn, as was the case with the Mitsotakis Act about a year ago in the middle of strikes and general outcry. All Mr Mitsotakis wanted to achieve and it was in his philosophy that redundancies were. It makes sense, therefore, that the New Democracy does not vote for the bill, firstly because it is ideologically contrary to many points of the bill, while at the same time seeking to maintain the existing statute for the Secretary-General. It also wants to integrate additional people through the proposal for a register for the private sector. He wants to have the opportunity to intervene without telling us, of course, whether he proposes to the private sector and the wages paid by civil servants. If that's their proposal, he has to make it clear. PASOK for its part, more experienced all these years in the creation of the party state, is trying with its proposals to salvage what is left of the mechanism it has been building and thus survive itself. Of course, I didn't see a colleague here from PASOK. I think being absent from the Chamber in such a bill is a little problematic. But neither of you dare today ask for redundancies. The role has been taken over by the so-called 'centre cuts', which, with a massive populism, raise this issue of the neoliberal choice of redundancies by the public. It is a pretext for refusal at all levels, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. In the discussion of the bill in committee, all stakeholders were placed in an environment without protest, taking into account our obligation to vote for the bill, but also with realism in view of the current situation in the Greek state and taking into account the continuity of the state. You are accusing us of bringing a bill, for which the only responses are in this Chamber. And the reactions are specific. So there is hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen. There is a great hypocrisy from Opposition, which sees the public gradually going through a new orbit where it can no longer intervene. I am not referring of course to the JRC - which is absent from the Chamber too - because it has another view of society and how it needs to evolve, while at the same time trying to contribute with various proposals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'll talk quickly about the other articles. I am not going to talk about all these other articles that no one has said in this House and which deal with problems that have arisen and which greatly facilitate the functioning of the public and self-government. They didn't talk to us about those who didn't finally take because they wanted to take their own children. I shall, however, speak of Article 48. And to talk about the substance of this article and the necessity to vote. Here I will mention both Mr Kaklamani's position, from the President's position, which was differentiated from the New Democracy party, and his colleagues from the Communist Party of Greece, who insist that the article remain. I will be content with the Minister's position on the legislative improvement that must include other bodies. As for Article 32, which will well come back and has to come back. And, yes, that is what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen. It's our choice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. I want to make a little comment in relation to agenda issues outside of the bill. Colleagues of counter-population, racism and xenophobia are not helping the country. Understood. Political persons and SMEs - and we know the media game - are trying to terrorize the world that has another attitude in society. You are expressing, gentlemen, the most conservative circles in Europe that are going to break it down. And be careful how you speak. They'll let you guys know. And that's where our conversation should stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Mitafidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of time and substance, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Pallis on his excellent report, which, in my opinion, has been withdrawn. I think any problems, from what I have heard, of the constitutionality of the article could have been healed. Those of us who have served in local government know what that means. It would also be an act of liberation. Dear Minister, at the same time as we are debating here the reconstruction of the public administration on a different basis from what we have known until now, as a bureaucratic mechanism, for the respective ruling party, at the same time that last week we voted on the so-called 'parallel programme', the acceleration of the government's work, particularly to relieve our winter citizens, all the deceleration mechanisms in the deep state are in place in order not to move forward. I want to be specific. There has been a serious problem with workers and with the fact that, while there are irrevocable judicial decisions, which obliges the public and the municipalities to pay the employees for an indefinite period, due to the great delay in the completion of their classification process, as foreseen by Law 4057/2012, they cannot get their jobs. Krylleas case here in Athens are the cleaners of the Ministry of Labour, who have remained unpaid for seven months, as well as sixty others in Thessaloniki and many other regions of the country. In my opinion these are inconsistent with a left-wing government. At the same time, when the Areos Ice has decided that irrevocable judicial decisions should be carried out without delay by the public and the OTAs, as defined in the Constitution and Law 3068/2012, even threatening the public. Thus, workers, who have succeeded in their judicial struggle against the public and municipality, are hostages of the administration's improper work and of the refusal of the Commissioners of the Court to sign the orders to pay their salaries, while normally providing their jobs. We are, in other words, many states in the packet of one! This irrationality re-exports the workers into continuous judicial struggles. They are forced to issue temporary orders - in fact, now with the abstention of lawyers, they do not even have that possibility - in order to achieve the self-evident, that is to say, to receive their qualifications, and because of the prolonged abstention of lawyers, as I have told you, they are forced to remain unpaid. On these issues, ladies and gentlemen, I had tabled two amendments, which unfortunately did not have the opportunity to deal with them, while addressing issues which we have to resolve. I will put them in the Minutes in the hope that they will be included in the upcoming, as I have heard, of a bill on mobility, because they resolve issues. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Mitafidis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned amendments, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I will conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with a message from Thessaloniki, my birthday city, where the well-known unpopular nationalist bloc under the blessings of the well-known Metropolitan Anthony and the ravines of the Golden Dawn raises the flag of xenophobia and the saint of nationalism, from which this place has been afflicted for so many years. "International developments..." - says the resolution of the municipal council, which was adopted by a majority - "...have brought our place to the heart of a crisis in which we must all be wise, cool and promote humanitarian values. The reasons for hatred and the targeting of migrants and refugees do not contribute to their harmonious coexistence with residents and to the creative treatment of the issue. With this in mind we call on the city's spiritual and religious institutions to contribute to the culture of understanding and humanism." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis. Mr. Chogas George has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we are in the same spectators' work. We are watching the agony of counter-population to exercise opposition. We are watching an inappropriate, unreliable and ultimately mistrustful attempt at counter-population political behaviour, which aims to harm the government politically and not to contribute with its proposals to maximise social well-being, which is what is called for by its institutional role. We are witnessing a sterile re-institutional behaviour of counter-population, which is a pretext from Parliament's accepted rules of operation. The same practice has been followed in the bill for the parallel programme, a harsh and mistrustful criticism, a barren controversy, non-existent proposals, communication management alone, absolute indifference for the presumption of positive provisions of the bill and its general architecture. A number of examples of the total deadlock and the lack of serious criticism are the fact that speakers of the New Democracy have spent some half of the time criticizing them for the retiring article 48. In other words, they were talking about an article that was not in the debate. That is, they were acquainted with them outside the subject. This, in my view, recommends a post-modern version of the word ‘anguish of psalm bex’. In addition, Mr Georgiadis attacked the Minister with great vigour on the issues raised in the Committee debate. Who? Mr. Georgiadis, as if we don't know his horrific extreme right-wing syndrome. Others have dealt with the refugee issue, again outside the matter deliberately, because objections to the bill are minimal to non-existent. And finally, I cannot help talking about analogy with the position of the parallel programme that was followed today in the draft legislation under consideration, saying with incredible slightness that the most depressive genius "so does not fight capitalism". And I come to the bill. I do not think there is anyone in Parliament's Chamber who can say that public administration in our country should not change. The question is in what direction. This is an inspiring bill, not so much for its complete perfection - in terms of covering the issues it is dealing with - but - in my opinion - about the conception and implementation of the entire building, the reform of the public administration. If there are any imperfections in his details, that is exactly what he is positive about his central philosophy. Thus, for the first time, the public administration has the opportunity to act in innovative terms, to stop being a slow-moving, paralyzed and incompetent bureaucratic mechanism with boned structures and to contribute to the preparation of public policies, in response to the demands of times. Today, the government is fully aware of the need for an integrated, enforceable and reliable programme of administrative reorganisation aimed at the proper functioning of the public administration, and the introduction of this draft law, with the bold and radical proposal on the demilitarisation and demilitarisation of the public administration, at the same time as the generalised political and social crisis within and outside the borders, with Europe's cohesion in danger of being lost in the Aegean Sea, when it has often seized the best of solidarity, and yet SYRIZA insisted on its philosophical authorities and denying the numbers and being interested only in people, at the call of Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the main and dominant objectives and axes of the proposed project are as follows. The National Register of Public Administration Executives, the evaluation system for officials, the graduation of posts, the selection system for heads. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] About the national register. The establishment and maintenance of the register is intended to carry out the value-added tasks of the public services and is inextricably consistent with the principle of the effectiveness of the public administration's action. In this way, traditional practices of the favorable and customer-friendly character are being exploited in the service of public service duties and positions are managed in a manner of meritful and social law. The registry is recommended and is maintained electronically by the Higher Personnel Selection Board, the AACC, and thus has increased coverage. It is aimed at the greatest possible service and satisfaction of the public interest, with the expectation that a public sector with this staffing determination and a sense of social responsibility will serve the benefit of the private sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President, if you would like to be kind. On the contrary, the coexistence of the private and public sector has emerged as the public and private sectors have finally become interdependent by causing non-productive structures. Moreover, the aim is to improve and transform public administration and its structures towards its efficient and rational functioning. Under these provisions, the creation of the register is a radical structural change. I have no time to talk about the evaluation, nor about the rating structure and the selection system of heads, and I shall end with the following, that Article 48, in my own humble legal opinion, was poorly excluded. Do you know why? As long as the legislature is sufficient to have a primary decision ordering the stay or the return of workers to work, it is natural that the desirability of paragraph 3 be removed. This is the same regulation as paragraph 3. If, therefore, we accept the text of paragraph 2 as constitutional, then paragraph 3 is legal consequence and wrong in my view, it has been excluded. I imagine he'll come back soon with some other standards. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that the state is evolving with society and today it is a strong social requirement that public administration function in terms of transparency and competitiveness, in good cooperation and balance with the private sector. This legislation of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction must be seen as the preliminary stage of the change of our society, which is why I urge you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Syrigos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u248	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with two general references, which even symbolically characterise the framework of state, administration and citizens. When I say 'administration', I mean the employees inside. In the first, local character, a central role would have a symbolic visit to Klathmonos Square. In the second, central role would have a reading of Nicolai Gogol's well-known "The nose" project, where a great senior clerk of the christian bureaucracy wakes up one morning and he lacks his nose and seeks to find it. The nose has come out in St. Petersburg, tortures citizens, enters a car, asks him for various things and mediates a story until this bureaucrat regains his nose. It says a lot of things. I am saying this as a general debate in the field that we are discussing and in which the draft legislation is being discussed satisfactorily. Ladies and gentlemen, I am emphasizing a number of articles below, which I consider to give the signal of the arrangements in the draft legislation to be discussed and which, as a result, are characterised by them, they are energetically describing its objectives and philosophy. Public administration as you all admit, I believe it is suffering because it is characterized by intrinsic illnesses and dysfunctions, by chronic bad policies which are also the result of non-political sizes, such as lack of responsibility or lack of social control and slowness and also by large political sizes, such as partisanism and co-responsibility. And before and after 1911, and since then these were its characteristics, because the parties' red tapes, rising to the government, believed that life expectancy had been created on the constitutional field, as Roides would say, and so did they what they wanted, disregarding the public interest. But I said too much. I will quote the titles of the articles characterising the bill: Article 1, setting up a National Register of Civil Service Administrators. Article 3 refers to the second paragraph of "Conservation of the register... belongs to the AACC", which is an independent authority. Article 7, procedure for selecting Secretary-General, Deputy Secretary-General and Special Secretaries. In paragraph 2 - I see it that way, there are objections on the part of the Vice-Presidents - the choice from the private sector appears as an ancillary solution. In my view, it would also be a little offensive to officials of the administration any other solution. Articles 10 and 12, in conjunction, Special Selection Board for Administrations - composition and creation of a assurance of their impartial function after the AACC is reinvolved. Article 23, full-time address and department. Participation in them shall not be paid overtime compensation. Article 24, accountability and social control - Public administration observatory. We emphasise the hearing of public bodies. Article 29, Heads of Organic Units - procedure and criteria for selecting heads. Finally, in Article 42, the setting-up of a national council for the codification and reform of Greek legislation I think it is a central point, which will lead to a universal reform. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing another bill that will become the law of the state. It may be our job to stop here, but law enforcement is the next and main field of his trial. I hope and hope that this Belgian, the good law, will go ahead and be implemented. The same applies to other legislation, which has been done in the present and the previous parliamentary term, which usually impact on chronic pathogens of political life, in interests diverse and pretexts in sin. I believe that a reform is taking place today which we must support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u249	Thank you. There were two colleagues who were briefing the Minister and who did not take the floor. They're asking him, even though he wasn't here when they were called. I'll give him to you for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u250	Madam President, may I take the floor for some amendments and legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u251	Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I have some legislative improvements. The two relate to the main body of the bill. The third amendment concerns the amendment by my colleague, Mr Pappas, on audiovisual. These are the legislative improvements. I'm filing them and please share them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u253	Now I should like to tell you about some of the amendments that are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u254	Are you telling us if they're parliamentary or ministerial?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u255	I think they're ministerial. I read the number of amendments: 258/28, 263/33, 262/32, 261/31, 260/30, 259/29.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u256	Did you say 264 her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u257	I didn't say. Who's 264?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Meikopoulou and Mr. Parastatides. It is a parliamentary amendment, SYRIZA Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u259	It is an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. No, I didn't. I should also like to make a clarification of the amendment that was mentioned this morning concerning the archaic guards at the Museum of Amphipolis. It is not acceptable, after consultation with the Members, and it will be back in due course to see this solution, because it is a problem that we need to resolve.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Emmanuelides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the abundance is abundant, self-criticism is dramatically fading or - more rightly - when self-criticism is lacking, then abundant. And, indeed, the excess political affinity of the New Democracy and the PASOK is disgusting. They did not show the slightest sign of self-criticism for their works and days as to how they faced the crucial public life sector. Instead of due apologies for all the crimes they committed against society, creating a public administration cut into the precursor party bed, charged with guilty client relations, with corruption phenomena, with partisanization of almost all of the options, armed with the only weapon left, i.e. the audacity, dare to defile their hollow opposition. The only refuge in the debate on the bill to be passed, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, is the vile silence. It is the least you have left, if you want to save any castings of your political seriousness. But what seriousness of you to talk about, when at the critical moment of the negotiation of 12 July, you were pressing us to make progress in any agreement with the institutions and when on 14 August you voted for the binding terms of the agreement and the next one having reached a strategic deadlock, you refuse to support the implementation of the agreement so that the country will come out of the Memorandum of Labyrinth as quickly as possible? Finally, you must realise that your blind opposition is only a problem for our country and our people. Finally find your political orientation and pace. Your political survival cannot rely on the political turbulence with which you operate. The moments are particularly critical. They demand basic responsibility. This social responsibility comes to serve the bill to be passed on to the public administration. The reform of the SYRIZA in public administration is aimed at a public administration that is resiliently organised and has competent and appropriate executives. Only in this way will it be able to fulfil its constitutionally established institutional role, which is none other than the satisfaction and defence of the public and social interests. The proposed reform project has four pillars. The establishment of a National Register of Public Administration Executives, the evaluation system, the rating structure and the selection system of heads. To conclude, in short, the proposed draft law introduces positive and critical innovations to public administration with the sole aim of strengthening transparency and deservedness and serving the citizen as the final beneficiary of public services. It will be a significant contribution to improving public administration, the great patient of the place, as the Prime Minister has already pointed out. Ladies and gentlemen, these days our country is experiencing the paranoia of an inhumane behaviour on the part of those countries that are leading us in anti-human politics and behaviour. It is our duty to stand up to the values of humanity and to reject all this horror of obscene fascism with which they manage Europe's forces. SYRIZA in this direction makes a struggle, indeed, that shows the human face of society. We are also calling for support in this fight for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Morfidis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, having served thirty years on the front line of the public sector, I think I could write a book on pluralism, conflicting responsibilities, anxieties, wrong assessments and partisanism, which applied to all these years that I at least serve. And, of course, the party domination was to a very large and involuntary degree. Now comes a bill, trying to put a class and demolute the weights and diseases of the past. And instead of agreeing that this is something that needs to be done, we have a reaction. And we have a reaction, which I think is only because some people think they should have their own children - the people who have been judged by previous governments - to remain untouched and to continue with the course that previous governments had drawn up. And, unfortunately, she was in the wrong direction. I'd like to say two words about the executive register. Having lived, of course, tens of positions - party always - directors-general - and not only with the change of each government but also with the changes of the Minister in question - I think it is necessary to create the register of directors. And we're probably late. It's something that should have happened many years ago. With regard to the proposal I hear about private sector officials, I think it is very difficult for the public to contribute and offer people who come from the private sector. Firstly, it would be very bad for those officials who are already serving, who have reached a very good level and now have doctoral, postgraduate. I think they're the ones who should have the first reason. Secondly, we take people who have learned in a different way of operation - administrative - in a different way of dealing with staff, and above all in a different way of financial management, to put them in the public service. Until they know how the public works, they will have spent a critical time in which they won't even know where they are. Ladies and gentlemen, civil servants in recent years have been accepting war and war. They work mainly with self-depression, with very little money, and they are much less than they are in the past. But they have managed to keep up the structures of health, education, local government, which are crucial for the functioning of the state. I think that we owe this reform to all of us, so that the public can continue to move towards a better future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Gatis has the floor for five minutes, and then Mr. Yoyakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Madam President. I would not like to talk about the bill, because suggestions and positions have been heard. I just want to make a statement. It is one of the few bills in which we seem to have a debate, a real debate. We have a Minister who listens, takes note of his comments, corrects and withdraws articles, which he appreciates in the course of the debate that they should not exist. This shows the size of democracy, a sound element of our Parliament. I would, however, like to raise an issue in the way in which Members of Parliament are consulted and consulted. We risk, when we take an initiative to table some proposals or amendments, that we should consider putting forward proposals of a succinct nature. However, I think that will have to change between us. There must be those protective mechanisms, so that Members too can put forward proposals, that is to say, that they contribute to the development of the parliamentary work. The Members' amendments should therefore go through a concentration mechanism. If this is not easy to do at the time - whether accepted or not - they should be gathered, processed and, in the end, whether they are rejected, they should be rejected by a reasoning, not so. Because when we present them, we are making a explanatory statement because we are proposing that these amendments be tabled. Minister, I have tabled two amendments, one of which two, two and a half years ago, while I am in the Greek Parliament. In fact, it is repeated in the bills of the Ministry of the Interior. It is an amendment, which has the characteristic that Members of all the parties in the Dodecanese are signatories to it. All parties! In other words, it is not an amendment, which is the majority today or the opposition yesterday. It is signed by the Members of the New Democracy and the PASOK MPs. This amendment refers to the restoration of justice to some of our fellow workers who happened to work in a municipal water business. These, based on the law of "KALIKARATI", were incorporated into the new JHA in Rhodes, because the eleven municipalities became one. So the six JHAs that were working became one. So these workers joined the new JHA according to the 'CALICRATES' law, which gave them this possibility. In fact, it predicted that they would join regardless of how they were recruited. So although there was a problem with the conversion of contracts from a certain time to an indefinite under the law of Pavlopoulou, it was considered after complaints that these conversions were unconstitutional and these people were fired. But what we want to do with this amendment is this injustice, because the state itself gave them the opportunity after 2006 and 2012 to work normally in their new job and thus have rights and have created those conditions for family and personal, so that they can cope with them. We therefore believe that the proposal should be accepted, these workers - in order to escape from possible unconstitutionalities - those companies - who are fifty-seven in the number in Dodecanese and Corfu - should be restored and re-established not on the basis of the original provisions but to enable the company to hire them with new data. Already - and I am tabling it for the Minutes of this House - there is an excerpt and decision of the Rhodes Municipal Company calling for legislative intervention on this issue, since the new JHA dam has to be managed in Rhodes as well and therefore has increased staff needs. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Gassis, presents for the Minutes the above passage, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second amendment also refers to a problem of public workers in border and difficult areas. You know that on the basis of Article 64 of Law 1943/1991, civil servants could obtain a grant for the purchase or construction of dwellings in border areas up to 40% of the value of their homes. It was an incentive that was then given so that workers in the public sector could move to border areas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Madam President. But life came and brought them a little backwards. What's the backwards? While there was a commitment, that these workers should serve at the border at least ten years after receiving their loan, on the basis of early retirements they had to leave and not complete 10 years after receiving the loan. We therefore ask that there be a regulation which recognises the following: Firstly, in the total time of the decade, the compulsory, that is to say, the stay of these colleagues, should not be taken into account, because they also take this time away - like the time of moving from one border service to another service at the border. While at the border, the time of the second area was taken away. Secondly, we call for that category of staff to be retired, these officials to count duty time at the border - decades - from the beginning of their careers, that is, the decade not to be calculated from the date of receipt of the loan but to go back a little back, from the day of their movement or placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u266	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u267	In this case, too - and I am ending, Madam President - it should be clarified by the third paragraph who is the fraudulent, so that a civil servant - if he is proved to have been fraudulent or negligent - he must return the money. At the moment, Minister, some twelve of our fellow Members are threatened to lose their homes, because they must return the amount of the loan which they do not have. In other words, they are threatened to seize their homes. I think that it does not have economic costs and that it can be accepted by a second thought. Otherwise we must put these proposals in a serious process of discussion and processing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Yoyakas has the floor. I would ask that Mr. Mikopoulou be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to start with two brief comments on the legislative procedure. It is good that, in relation to the original form of the bill that was given in public consultation, certain imperfections have been corrected. For example, in the first part, the composition of the National Administration Selection Board has become more compatible with the level of candidates and contains more guarantees of independence. They were also given the opportunity to be candidates and members of the private sector, at least for executive posts in supervised legal persons governed by public and private law. On the other hand, we have seen, once again, entering the window - as a fifth part - provisions which had not been placed in the public consultation and which have nothing to do with the subject of the bill, without documentation, without costing, and in some cases were illegal and unconstitutional. Unfortunately, because this practice has become a common place for conflict, it does not surprise us or wonder! As far as the substance of the bill is concerned, there are regulations that are burdensome, both for merit and for efficiency and transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, merit is also guaranteed by standardisation of evaluation procedures. Such standardisation does not exist in the way of choice for positions of high responsibility. How will formal qualifications be assessed? Is the scientific or research project more important than administrative experience and when? How much weight does the CV have against the interview? Responsibility also means that equal access and equal treatment are guaranteed. That is why - and despite the corrections - it continues to be a disadvantage, so that it does not allow officials outside the public sector to claim a position of general deputy or special secretary. These positions must be open to the greatest possible part of the skilled, appropriate and qualified professionals. Because our country still has many such things, despite your persistent effort to get them out of the country. Once again, however, what worthyness can you speak, gentlemen, of co-government, when the activation of the register will only concern vacant posts? Are they going to have empty seats, or will you make sure you've covered them? There is also a problem of standardisation in the way of selecting heads, with the different groups of criteria differently. Thus, personal interviews can be much more important than studies and vocational training of the person assessed. Is that objective? I leave the fact that in some cases the choice of persons with low administrative experience is left open. Gravity, therefore, but gravity and effectiveness, because efficiency goes through and through the simplicity of procedures. But there are procedures and mechanisms here, which are only not simple. How effective is an evaluation system, which maintains all the disadvantages of the former systems, grading the vast majority of the employees? Why do you reinstate earlier planning provisions that have never worked in practice? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there cannot be efficiency without simplicity in procedures and speed in times. Let us now come to transparency. Transparency is also the result of accountability. There's no accountability here. In practice, accountability means specific mechanisms, procedures and criteria. It is another thing that the citizen can have a say on his service from a public service and another on how public administration representatives take responsibility for the citizens for those who do or do not do their services. The conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, are as follows: First of all, we have a duty as Opposition to be strict and cautious, as coexistence has not convinced us of its care to serve public administration with merit and transparency. Secondly, the gaps in the staffing of the positions of responsibility and the undirect universalisation of the register tells us one thing: The coexistence wants to keep the public administration under its suffocating control and is baptised as a "reformation" which she does not believe but can invoke in order to throw ashes into the eyes of unsuspecting ones, that she allegedly depopulations public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Meikopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u271	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last few decades, starting with post-population, a very rich political vocabulary has been developed, a very rich political terminology that was intertwined with the Greek public. Especially in the last five years, the words that prevail are simplicity, efficiency and justice. That trio I mentioned to you, it's not a SYRIZA invention. It's not some kind of innovation. The Greek governments - especially in the last six years - have used these three words against coron in order to say that, "We now come to make the cut that will rationalize the public." So in the public debate hearing these words many times, people do not pay particular attention, because, over the years and without doing anything at all, these words have lost their meaning, they have become empty content, and no one is convinced of the intention of any political power, to end what we call vileness and pathogenicity within the Greek public. I therefore have the impression that this draft law, with the current legislative initiative of the Government, makes a first step, a first step, in order to put an end to horrors that have developed in recent years, especially the five-year memorandum to the Greek public. Are there pathogens? Obviously, there are. The explanation given, in particular by Civic Opposition, is that these pathogens exist because it is a over-inflated public, and that is why it is ineffective and is not functional. The truth is, of course, that in all these decades, and especially in recent years, public service has been treated as a feud, it has been dealt with as a field where hundreds of experimentations have been carried out, and in particular in recent years, which the civil servants have no longer been appointed by thousands of civil servants, in positions of responsibility, according to the parliamentary power of the parties. When there was ever a mighty bipartisanism, the vast majority in the positions of responsibility took the first party and some of the second one. When we ended up in the tripartite conflict, we had the notorious four - two - one. So, with the present guidelines and the present basic axes given by our own legislative initiative, I think that we are dealing with a first set of positive measures, a chronic pathogen, which had never been touched before. In order to be more comprehensible, what we are promoting can be divided into three main axes. The first axis concerns the setting-up of a National Civil Service Executive Register, the second axis, a new system of evaluation of officials and the third, a new system of selection of heads. What is the National Civil Service Officers' Register? It will be very simple to incorporate officials with increased qualifications and educational qualifications, who will now be responsible for the state's duties from now on. So in a very serious way, it ends the long tradition of partisan responsibility. One point I would particularly like to address, is the criticism, I would say, that we have accepted the absence of the possibility of private sector staff being pumped into exactly these executive positions. So, in fact, we were judged, because we do not manage public structures with free choices and even without criteria, as was usually the case until today. So we say quite simply that the public sector has a very powerful human potential. These are its resources and they are what we are going to use. Because rationalisation in the public sector means fundamental and rationalising its own resources. But one will say: "There are also qualified and qualified outside the public sector. And of course there are. For this very reason, the register is open and is set out in the bill and the possibility of private sector executives being able to draw from the private sector in the selection of directors for private legal persons and even for public law entities with executive powers. As far as the second axis of the evaluation system is concerned, the evaluation for us, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer linked to availability or redundancies, as before. It is very simple and clear that we are proposing a system of improvement rather than a punishment. Because staff are assessed on the basis of parameters such as the formal and substantive qualifications of each employee and the evaluation reports of his superiors, but in the final assessment for the first time the scores of the heads of staff will be counted. And this two-way assessment, I believe, will be a crucial tool for improving the productivity of employees and the efficiency of the public administration, which will in turn bring the upgrading of the services provided to citizens. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I do not say that this bill is a panacea, but neither do we exhaust our entire legislative initiative in this bill. It is a first package of measures, depending on the years that pass, it will be corrected, it will be improved. What matters to all of us to understand is that at last in the policy applied is the following: this chronic pathogenesy of the historic square of Klathmonos finally begins and ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u272	Thank you. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u273	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again I am forced to begin my speech, noting that the good intentions are not enough to make the change and that the words are in danger of losing their meaning completely in here. Of course, after a first reading of this bill, one has to recognise that the creation of the register alone is an incision to public administration. As Mrs Merkel said to Mr. Tsipras, when she called him - when NATO came to the Aegean, to tell him that NATO is coming to the Aegean - in detail the devil is hiding. Your handiwork is proven regularly. You did not hear Mr Kegeroglu in committee on Friday and Monday, with his words. Members have called you to the committees on the inadmissibility of Articles 32, 35 and 48 and you have finally withdrawn them. But you withdrew them in plenary, if necessary trying to show an example of good practice from the government, in other words, how the government hears the concerns of counter-population. But if you were to hear the concerns of counter-population, then these articles would have left the committee and would not have come into Parliament. Mr Carras has made a number of suggestions to you on how to avoid a number of misappropriations. You didn't hear us. You don't convince us that you're respecting the Opposition. At the same time as you are talking about depopulation of public administration, you define the position of Secretary-General as a person to apply the government's policy. So make yourself clear here. You have also not finally explained to us why the provisions of this bill should not apply to the other general secretariats, special and autonomous secretaries. The participation of the AACC in the process seems to be a pretext and how it is done only, in order to bring the government a little fruit to the concrete reform, by the validity of the AACC. If, indeed, you wanted to build a stable and reliable framework, you would actually leave the AAP itself alone. You decided to give the Minister the power to decide who's ready to retire, he can hold for the time he needs. There have been many comments on this. I'll just say one. Is that how you open the way to the new generation? In Article 7, you say that the ETUC will appreciate the general personality of the candidates. You have not endured either you have added an aggressive definition of 'consultative' to the interview and you think that you have hidden the fact that, at the end of the day, no matter what we say, the decisions will be taken behind closed doors and possibly party criteria. In Article 44, although you tell us where you will find the money to open undergraduate programs for civil servants, IF category at the Open University, yet you do not tell us how many will be and how much their student will cost. Basically you leave a door open, to serve situations with a hard pretext for lifelong learning and self-improvement of civil servants. Article 26 contains the assumption that the public should recognise the pre-service of up to seven years to those members from the private sector. However, the non-binding of this recognition with the new salary and the transfer of the implementing decisions to the signature of the relevant Presidential Decree creates deflection conditions, since on the one hand the executives consider that you are mocking them, on the other hand, and on the other hand remove one of the main incentives to participate in the public administration. On the one hand, you are excluding private sector officials from the register, on the other hand, from consulting them, without providing for the use of this opinion. With Article 26 you tell them that while they are capable and have the standard qualifications above, all they have to hope for is a formal and bureaucratic recognition of pre-service. Like, respectively, when you talk about accountability, you are finally talking about a huge box of complaints that no one will deal with. At least it's digital. We all admit that the public is in a terrible situation. It's refreshing to hope that this public can proceed to self-cleaning. It does not have the ability to do so, but if any effort is made, it is doomed to fail, as you anticipated the implementation of this law in 2018. Do you not understand what conditions this creates in public administration? Do you not understand that this is how the client state is being strengthened and setting the foundations, not to ensure the continuity of the state but just to put a left seal in its inconvenience? I will make a comment on the role that the assessment you are proposing to the public will play. Tell us what you will do with those who are finally found to be inadequate, what will happen to those who fail even in this lack of evaluation process. There are civil servants who pluck the state. They started reading the bill with a question in mind. What will they do to me if I go on with this motto? They have found the answer to Article 18 on the assessment of heads and it is the following: nothing, absolutely nothing. They're talking to us and the slow-wages today. We in the Centroon Union do not want to be equitable. At least I'm trying to track down the right and fair where I find them. Really those nine people over there, trying to do that. The Centro Association is trying. We do not want to deceive the government, but you do not leave us. You don't want the conversation, gentlemen of the government. As long as you insist to proceed with the hundreds of three and fifty Members, supposedly legalising reforms such as the three Vice-Presidents of the Open University without teaching obligations, you will not have the necessary support of the people. You do not want to make the necessary changes, nor do you want know-how in the end. In the last 24 hours geopolitical developments have taken place that will judge, among other things, the future of Greece. Everything around you shows that you won't stand and with you, unfortunately, this country won't stand. It's not your fault, it's your fault. You weren't a good opposition, you're a bad government. Go ahead in a courageous move, proceed to the creation of a universal government. Do it to save the country, do it for our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Papaphippippi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the public administration, which, through its actions and its actions, aims to satisfy, on the one hand, the public interest and, on the other hand, the public needs, is governed and must act on the basis of certain fundamental principles. The most important principles are, as you know, the principle of legality which expresses the relationship between legislative and executive power within the rule of law and the principles of equality, transparency, impartiality, good administration, good faith and legitimate expectations of the commander. Public administration officials shall be required to act impartially and in political neutrality in the performance of their duties, in accordance with Article 29(3) of the Constitution. However, it has been observed and seen for many years, a constant discrepancy between the way in which public administration should act and the way in which it acts, and thus deviate from its main purpose, which is of course the service of the citizen. This pathogen is found in the formalistic commitment to bureaucracy, which leads to inefficiency and almost deliberate delay in the implementation of its work. It also leads to opacity and bias, which are fed and reproduced by the customer system established in our country by the establishment of the Greek state. The draft law under discussion aims to overturn the prevailing and consolidated regime of pathogen, counterproductiveity and customer relations and aims at a substantial democratic administrative reform. The main pillars of the proposed reform project are. The National Register of Public Administration Executives - which I shall henceforth call it a register - the evaluation system, the rating structure and the system of selection of heads. Because of the limited time available to me, I will only be content with the brief reference of the first pillar, namely the register. The establishment of a register, which is an innovative institution, is particularly important, as it will be practically a first mapping of persons who meet the formal qualifications laid down by the relevant law and will be assessed on the basis of them, thereby ensuring dignity. At the same time, the submission of an electronic report by the applicant concerned as a condition of registration shall ensure equality. Electronic compliance with and related to the AACC guarantees transparency. The participation of the National Civil Service Centre in the selection of executives increases both its role and the selection process. This is because it is the national strategic body for the development of the human resources of public administration and local government, since its objective is to contribute substantially to the development of an effective administration, which ensures a high quality of service to citizens for the benefit of balanced development and social cohesion. As Minister Vernardakis also rightly pointed out in committee, the EMCDDA is the scientific consultant of the Greek State on the management of these issues. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough time to finish the speech and I will end by saying the following. From what I have just said, and in particular from what my colleagues in the Com mittee on Culture and the Minister have already said, it appears that the draft law is, in fact, attempting a fundamental democratic reform in the public administration which our country is absolutely in need of. Therefore, anyone who wants an administration, which is acting within the limits of legitimacy, away from political purposes and micro-party circumstances, to act transparently and impartially and above all, who wants an administration that is effective in carrying out its work in the interests of the citizen and of the public interest, has time to lift to the extent of circumstances, overcoming micro-participatory purposes and voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u277	I would just like to confine myself to an amendment that I have co-signed with my colleague Mr Athanasios. I am pleased that the Minister has accepted it, because it simply regulates and solves issues, which often seem like huge cases of local government. This provision relates to specific debts of the elected local government bodies, for which it has been definitively charged, but without such infringing costs being linked to any fraud, but which have been incurred in the performance of the tasks of the bodies concerned. With this provision - and I say again - I am pleased, because it was accepted by the Minister - it is facilitated in the light of the analogous application and the existing legislation to clear requirements of local government by the above debtors. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has accepted it after a consultation we have had and I think that will resolve a number of issues relating to the respective bodies of local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, too. Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Papadopoulos gives me the time of Mr. Davaki, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur, Mr Papatheodorou, described and recorded our position on this bill. I, in particular, shall refer to an amendment signed by Mr Skourlet. Before that, however, let me subject myself to the temptation and make a reference to the "fuss" of the parallel program that broke out, the "fuss" of the supposedly insecure supposedly guaranteed by the government on Friday with the new bill. Now, today, we have an amendment of over seven pages, which says exactly what Mr Kegeroglu and Mrs Christophilopoulou told you on Friday. What should we do to solve these problems? Mr Koutsoukos, our rapporteur, has said so. We've all been through this. If, then, we cannot reach agreement in the simple, the minutes, where it is clear that we agree and try to achieve improvements, how can we reach agreement on the biggest? The biggest, ladies and gentlemen, is the tragedy of the refugee. I want to be quite clear at these historic critical moments. The head of the Democratic Alliance, Mr. Genemas, yesterday asked the President of the Republic to contribute to the convening of the Council of Political Heads. I'm sorry. I must admit that, as a simple citizen, I was expecting the Prime Minister alone to call not just for the Council of Political Heads to be convened but for the other political leaders to be at a permanent meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, the refugee is beyond the competence and the possibility of intervention of the Greek Government today. And I am sure that it also goes beyond the possibilities of the whole political system of Greece, it is now beyond the possibilities of all Greece as we know it as an organized state and society. In order to contribute positively to the resolution of the refugee problem, we must first of all address the Hellenism of the earth and ask for its positive contribution. I will say two - three specific examples. Of course we must demand the activation of all the European Union's mechanisms. For the last thing that is easy, I do not understand why the Greek Government has not instructed all the ministers involved in Councils of Ministers, such as the Council of Transport Ministers, the Council of Agriculture Ministers, the Council of Ministers of Internal Affairs, to hold an extraordinary meeting of the individual thematic Councils of Ministers, in order to determine the consequences and ways of dealing with the enormous problem of the refugee crisis throughout Europe. Greece is the first country to benefit from such a convening. Let me make a comment on the previous one. Ladies and gentlemen, the good minds of Hellenism through its necessity and creative people are largely abroad. He's been privileged by an unbelievable positive lobby. I will give you just a few examples. In the business sector, can we not find ten well-known, powerful Greek businessmen, ask them out to CNN at the BBC and support Greece's positions? In the academic field, can we not ask Mr. Nanopoulou and the prefects of Greeks who are in foreign universities, to go out to the academic area and the media and to support Greece? In the field of culture, in Gabras, in Arveler, we cannot ask them to do what I am sure all these Greeks want to do but do not have whom to coordinate? I therefore propose that we take advantage of all the powers of Hellenism and all the opportunities that the European framework gives us and implement the proposal that we have put forward as a Democratic Consortium, with the central coordination of the Council of Political Heads, to see how we can deal with this enormous crisis that we have before us. I will only refer to an amendment from the whole body of the bill that we are discussing. It is an amendment on how the government will handle around EUR 150 million each year. We are talking about offsetting pollutants, that is, incentives to prevent heavy energy-intensive Greek industries from leaving abroad, because they cannot compete with the least cost - for example Turkey - and against that, to give them what, after an effort of our own, approved by the European Union, that is to say, an economic support of 15-20 million per year in order to stay here. Therefore, in the first part of Mr Skourlet's amendment, of course, we agree that support should be given. We did it, we gave 15 million in 2014. But there, now that we have an incredible attempt to opaque and suspected handling of public money, it is in the second part of the amendment, where the Minister tells us what he says? Look, please, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We are asked by 40% of the 150 million, that is, about 60 million per year, to authorize the Minister to handle them in white, saying: 'I will decide who I am going to give them', not even to whom he says. And, secondly, it does not even tell us what criteria this body will make the allocation of 60 million. We therefore do not know who the authorisation will be granted or what procedures it will administer about EUR 60 million each year. The simplest solution would be this: for example, the Minister has appointed party command at the Renewable Energy Centre, he has also appointed party command, so his confidence in the Green Fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u280	How do you know it's a party?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u281	Why does he not grant this possibility to his own administrations and keep it for an unknown company? Is the company, the only company that has no rules of operation, is the famous DCIENE, where CEO is Ms. Kafantaris' husband? Since I do not want to believe that it is the way I say it, we call on the Minister of State, Mr Skourletis, to support this amendment, to tell us which public company of its own choice will be able to manage the 60 million and on what simple, basic criteria, transparent criteria, this company will make the distribution so that the Minister's decision is taken, to obey basic rules for the proper functioning and distribution of public money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u282	I'll call again for time. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I will read to you a communication on governmental change from the Prime Minister, Mr Alexis Tsipras. "We have the honour to beg as you announcing to the House that by 18/24-2-2016 a presidential decree, published in the FEK 27/24-2-2016 (v. A), firstly, the resignation submitted by Panagiotis Sguridis Sguridis from the position of Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, was accepted and was exempted from his duties, and secondly, the appointment was made by Marina Chrysovvelonis of Georgios at the place of the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. The Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u283	Madam President, could I have the floor for a minute, a announcement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u284	Please have the floor, Minister, to speak about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u285	Tell us in turn to see them, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u286	Yes, I have already announced them, but because there was 262, supported by Mr Flavouraris and I had not mentioned it, I would like to say that the one I withdrew - after consultation with both Members - was the 242, which we accepted this morning. I would also like to say that Amendment No 264/34, which concerns disabled people, is also accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u287	Here, Mr Papadopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes. Then Mrs. Stamatakis follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u288	I'd like to say a few words, myself, after Nikos Igoumenides, about the extreme behaviors that have happened in Trikala, by some who think they're gonna scare us, about how we're going to express our conscience. At this difficult time for the people and the country, we have no right for the Members, not to ask our conscience about what we are going to do, about what benefits the people and the country, about what is preferable when we are aware of the dilemmas that go in. And if in the summer some of us - and I together - had some concerns about the options we have made, we have had questions, we have answered that everything else would be worse for the people and the country, now with the outbreak of the refugee problem in the Mediterranean, in the Aegean Sea, in Europe, we understand very well that what we have done was a right choice, because there is now the first government in united Europe, which with its Prime Minister makes the refugee problem a European problem, decides on the basis of humanism, humanism, solidarity instead of the extreme benefit they put on other aspects and shows a way for Europe that we need to build. The draft law, ladies and gentlemen, continues the bold parliamentary initiatives which help to regenerate a devastated country with enormous potential. This is a serious reform of public administration, absolutely necessary to remove accumulated pathogens and serve the parallel to the forty-eight prerequisites of the creditors government's global reconstruction programme, which started with the PPP, and was culminated in the adoption of the draft law on speeding up government work. We have listened carefully to the criticism of officials of the Opposition for the areas that are being done, and in particular to whom the National Register of Officials of the Public Administration will include, for the role of the Secretary-General, the criteria for selecting heads and the way in which they are to be assessed and many others subsequently. I was impressed by Mr Georgioda's view that those who are included in the national register should also be managed by private sector officials. I do not know if you have noticed the criteria set by the public call of interest for the selection of governors and deputy governors in hospitals. You will see that the criteria required are all that are already being discussed and already proposed: knowledge of the subject, scientific and administrative competence, special studies, cooperation with patients and public health officials, selflessness, health care as a public good. The invitation responded to more than a thousand candidates to run the hospitals in the country and includes private healthcare staff, staff who graduated from the National School of Public Health and the National School of Public Administration, postgraduate staff in the organisation and management of health services, health economy, self-government officials who proposed that they be included in the register and those who were recently judged by the Evaluation Committee and are not among the twelve of the seventy directors who existed and have remained. We know that we will also be judged on the choices the Ministry of Health will make following the reports of the Evaluation Committee, but there is already a qualitative difference from the choice of 4-2-1 of the NW - PASOK - DIMAR. But some have the courage to go back to the crime scene, as some who dared to make a black book on health issues, to which Mr.Adonis Georgiadis is unfortunately leading. We will prove that we have a completely different political behaviour. We want, Minister, to show that in the assessment of the heads of hospitals, where we have made a proposal to place emphasis on quality criteria and not on those of the pre-service in a position of heads of government, which the party and client state we received, gave them to the people of political power, and we think it can really be replaced by these proposals in a legislative way by Article 29. We must therefore end up defending the bold administrative reform which is part of our alternative productive, administrative development plan for the parallel government programme, which some demonises them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u289	The floor will be taken by Mrs. Helen Stamatakis and then by Mr. Koutsoukos. Mrs Stamaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, until some time ago Belgium had no government, because the parties had not agreed to a government coalition. However, the state mechanism operated without any problem. Prosperous is the corresponding capacity of the French and German state mechanism and of Denmark and Finland to operate effectively, regardless of the central government, based on systematic transparency, on decision-making at all levels of governance and on a strong civil society. Now think of Greece without a government. No one would make a decision on anything without the signatures of the relevant political groups. It is not only the bureaucracy, the fragmentation of competences and the bad coordination of public services, but also a portion of people who were used to drawing up behind the political power in question, a power which when the time was finally coming to put order, legalised arbitraryness and covered any irregularity. Money, power, ruffetti, miserable. Religions of the public administration of our country, which has always been attached to the party that took the parliamentary majority. The big question has always been how this situation changes, how this change will not be temporary until another government comes to change it, how this cycle of customer relations and political pursuits will break, and the ultimate role of public administration will be strengthened, how the public administration will cease to be hostage to change parties in the government and ensure its autonomy and continuity. On the basis of these questions we are debating today and we want to lay the foundations for the restoration of our country's administrative system, the great patient, as is commonly called years now, which no one has ever wanted or been able to cure, beyond the occasional aspirins given to him. But what were the pathogens that led to the current structural crisis in public administration? It was and is the control until the paralysis of the public administration from the political leadership in question, the adequacy at all levels of the administration from recruitment to the end of the term of office, bureaucracy, concentration and pluralism, the lack of a serious human resource management policy, the fragmentation and self-interest that trampled the main role of public administration, namely the service of the citizen. All this, together with the reduction of human resources, without taking into account the results of the quality and quantity of benefits and services of the citizen, has led to the above crisis. In this crisis we are being called upon to give solutions. In particular, we need to restore citizens' confidence in public institutions. This bill, therefore, aspires to be the starting point and starting point in order to lay the foundations for a whole different operation of the state, so that the public administration can act as a lever for our country's development and progress. Such a bill, ladies and gentlemen, only one left-wing government could bring to the House for the following reasons: Because it maintains, however unsatisfactory it is, the moral surplus. He owes no one, he did not come to the government as a result of synergy between synergy between synergy between synergy between synergy between synergy between syndicates and interdependent interests, but as a genuine child of the need to change the situation in which the old political system led our country. Because we have complete confidence in the skills and capabilities of the majority of citizens working in public administration. Because we believe in the principles of democracy, transparency and equality, principles governing this bill from its beginning to the end. We do not want to have any power, but instead we want every power to come from the people and to be exercised through democratic institutions, with participation and with control of the people. Our legislative regulations are therefore necessary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] My time is over, but I would urge you, Minister, that this law be implemented immediately. Since yesterday, the modernisation of the public administration should have begun. Let the bases for a different operation of the state be put in place today, and here we are to correct weaknesses and problems that are likely to be found in the process. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close - and I apologise, Madam President, why my time has been exhausted - from this Step and as a member of the Piraeus Parliament, to state proudly how my fellow citizens and my fellow citizens down at the port of Piraeus welcome each day the refugees and the immigrants who come from our islands. I would like to express my gratitude to the Port and to all the state bodies who, in peace, have taken people to the safe hospitality centres, which have already started and operated. One of them is in Perama. The help of the solidaritys is shocking and I am proud, really, that I live in this town. I would like to say to colleagues in Commodities sometime, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to go down to Piraeus, to see how all the actors in our city welcome the refugees arriving at our port. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor, then there's Mr. Pavlides and Mrs. Kefalidou, to be close and move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, the so-called system of loots, the known spoil system, is synonymous with the history of the formation of the modern Greek state. The controversies of Diligiannis and Bulgaria at the end of the 18th century have remained and are historically recorded those interventions of the major reformers, who have attempted to change this system of loots, with the top of the constitutional reform of Eleftherios Venizelos, so that workers in the public can no longer be held hostage to the governments and if they are gathered in Klathmonos Square, which you know has taken its name from there. Of course, this great reform that wanted to ensure the legality and impartiality of public officials was distorted over time by impunity. But that is not the fault of reform, it is the fault of those who have had the responsibility to implement it properly. I would like to say, Minister, that the public administration in our country, which has been repeated many times in this Chamber, in the Varvaressos report, the'major patient' after the war, constantly wants to be reformed not only to monitor developments, that is to say, to adapt to the developmental and social role and to the conditions of the time, but to combat the diseases that are constantly created within it, if the reforms do not have a speed that does not allow them to be integrated. And that, Minister, wants conflict. And, unfortunately, you may be a person who is related to political communication and you have been positively registered in this area, but in the area of reforms, of the policy applied, let me make the prediction that the historian of the future will not remember writing anything. Why would he do that? Why does he have an empathy with you? No, Minister, and colleagues of the majority. Because it is the reforms that demand conflicts. When the late Peponis, under Law 2190, made a major reform that changed a pathetic nature of the public administration, that is to say, to appoint the parties that were in power, there were major conflicts both at the level of society and within the ruling party. And I have been honoured to support this reform and to be reminded of it. Tell me about you, Minister, who are you confronting with with this logging arrangement for the executives, which is a proper arrest? And she's been filed by PASOK. It may not have been implemented while it was responsible for ruling, because the circumstances did not allow it, but it could be a major reform which would demilitarise a level of administration, that of the Secretary-General, which must indeed be demilitarised. And we agree with the basic idea. We do not agree with the New Democracy - as you can see - on this. In order to do so, however, Minister, you have to show in practice that you believe it. And you don't believe it. You're transferring it for the next one. But you know, the big reforms here in the country were constantly shifted to the next ones and the next ones changed them to implement theirs, which were better, and to take them to the aftermath. And so he did not walk any major reform. See the history of ratings and ratings. Let's start with Alekos Papadopoulos, from Ragosi who made a system of strict merits and go to Mitsotakis and so on. So, Minister, if you wanted to convince us and Parliament, and to vote that you want to implement a proper reform in its arrest, it must: firstly, this reform must be open to everyone and not closed to bureaucracy. Secondly, it should be immediately implemented. You first made sure to appoint them, and then we'll evaluate the next one. In fact, in order not to escape you and nobody is wrong - as our Parliamentary representative Mr Theocharopoulos pointed out yesterday - you are also bringing about a legislative improvement. In other words, nobody resigns and we have to assess it, that the Minister appoints it. Secondly, the evaluation and rating system leads us to a policy of one end, namely, the so-called Gaus curve that Mr Mitsotakis has tried to implement with the percentages, in a shape for which my assessment is that it will not be implemented, as there will be no strategic planning of the ministries. Already the law is not implemented and therefore there will be no targeting at both the address and section level. And I'm very afraid that you're transferring this reform to the next. That's why history is not going to write you, Mr. Bernardakis. That's why. We do not question your intentions. I repeat, however, that the reforms want conflicts, for which you are not prepared to do them, because you must clash with the majority. Legislation for the next. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I shall end, Madam President, so that I do not abuse time, since the debate has evolved. On another issue, Minister, you must not be proud. It is the Ministry of Administrative Reform that has the responsibility of codifying legislation and implementing the law on good legislation. You need to ask old Ministry officials to tell you what the Raptarch was. It was the system of mobile friends who codified legislation. So now that we have a huge development of electronic media and this codification you cannot do as a ministry. And you're accepting a reformist bill of amendments as though we're on the eve of elections, as if the government were falling tomorrow. I would just like to make two comments on the amendments. The one, which is about self-righteous dismissal in sixty-seven, is very right, because this is how we harmonize the regime. But the interim solution you have, where those who have to return must ask for permission and approve them, is not a rhysphetological regime? Why are you doing this? And I'm going to finish this. I am pleased that an initiative that we had launched since 2006 to return the successors of the notice No 8/1997, at last after so many years, has been justified. That is what I wanted to finish, Madam President, and thank you for the slightest tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u293	It's Mr. Pavlides who's not here. Mrs Kefalidou has the floor and Mr Thibaus and Mr Kyriazides will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are falling apart. It may be quietly, silently, methodically, but we collapse and the dug will be heard at the end. It's unbelievable how much the government does not seem to be interested in the multi-faceted collapse that the country is experiencing. The planet is shaking, the world is changing with a storming speed, human misery has rooted in our homes and the glorious Left continues to live in its parallel universe and scatter right and left - preferably left - our collective misery. The generosity of the government is commensurate with the high historical mission that it imagines to have. As far as the recipients are concerned, they are well known and specific. Once again, the country is drained to make choices, relatives and other leaders. Today, we "shout" public officials, who insist that they remain inadequate, while thousands of young people with qualifications and appetite are unemployed or migrants, so that they can live. This draft law comes after the realms and branches. Perhaps because we should celebrate formal accession to the customer universe of the government of moral advantage and equal opportunities. So since, ladies and gentlemen of the government, first you appointed all your relatives, friends, after taking out some party obligations, it is also the famous time for the National Register of Administrative Officers, etc., to bring the well-considered dignity to the public administration. But what if it's time? In the words we can all agree on the undeniable need for the state to work, the administration to operate independently of the political context, but this must be a direct application rule, not a target for the ultimate future. We agree: the party Secretary-General must be abolished, the party commanders must be abolished and everything else. It's incomprehensible, I think, that a minister's change means paralysis in management. After all, we set the rules for the collection of public administration by means of initiatives such as SAP, "DIAGY", opengov, operation of JEPs, public procurement and procurement control in public works. So what does the government do about it? After putting sixty two parties in positions of general secretaries, he comes with this bill and wants to commit the next governments, the governments of the future. How do you ensure transparency and dignity when you throw the ball into the next government? The evaluation of employees and senior organic units provides for a targeting system, a barbaric and majestic, with full-time services and consultative interviews, but inappropriate in the near future. In this bill there is no possibility of being included in the Register of Public Administration Executives from the private sector, which many colleagues have raised and the question is: Why? We have heard the Minister say that when one starts to do a reorganization, it will start with the existing potential, with the people it has, with the resources it has. But who is wrong with including worthy people who have proved their effectiveness in the private sector, apart from the civil servants, who are well aware that whether they pass or do not pass the evaluation remains public officials? Enter a confusing but scientific quantification system, where the staff member's molecules are based on physical files and not on an electronic system. It's amazing because we don't want it electronically. You know, the files, the papers, often disappear, we don't find them when they need them. You are generally absent in terms of electronic recording, so transparency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The cherry in this bill is the last part of it with the heterogeneous and pointless provisions, what you call other provisions, where you have withdrawn there, you have brought various provisions and, of course, a number of amendments to the future. Today you have tabled a new amendment which, while in your parallel programme, we were asking you to include it, did not do so and concerns the medical treatment of uninsured people. It took you four days to realize it. So, after all this, I ask: Who can believe in your reform intention, when you come by yourself and confirm what we all already know well? There is no need for reform and where to find it. You're state-owned by your genocide and addicted to a cow-state, a state-father. With what performances can you design and implement an effective modern public administration? Ladies and gentlemen, the real economy that is struggling every day cannot continue to feed a hydrocephalus, parasitic, a party state. Despite your grand proclamations, your excuses for all the manipulations you legislate are one: you did the same. Obviously that is how you realize your historic role, to make as much mistakes as we didn’t make in the end, and there is no mistake that will not have been committed in this country! If you believe in this bill, if it reflects your views and the country needs it, why do you not apply it today? Unfortunately, we know her answer and she doesn't honor you. The place won't raise a head while we throw the hot potato on the next. Because that's what you're doing today. It takes braveness to admit our mistakes and determination to correct them. We, as Democratic Reconciliation, know that very well and we are living with it. Then and only then, there's a little chance that this place could raise a head. I am not saying that it is easy, but it is necessary. It's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u295	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u296	Until that magical moment, at best in cases, who are left and do not migrate, we will live in the delusion, in the ruins of a country with a glorious past, but with a very doubtful future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the time. Mr. Thebes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, I really did not know that today with this bill we are putting our hands on the glorious past. With a great surprise I heard these things, I'm speechless. I would like to assure the Members of the Democratic Alliance that in the two years the SYRIZA - ANEL Government will implement the bill. I don't know. Their hopes will be disguised. We are talking today about a very important bill for our country which, for the first time since post-Multipulation, has been trying to reform fundamental democratically in the multi-faceted area of public administration. There is no Greek citizen who has not taken hostile action against bureaucracy, the inability of part of the administration, pluralism, corruption, party discrimination. During the crisis, these phenomena increased. The recipe of the previous governments was a reduction in the public sector, which forced a considerable potential for retirement, and the worst is that there was no attempt to balance between the over-food public sector and the one who needed real needs. They proceeded with redundancies of cleaners and teachers on the one hand and increased the day-to-day postgraduate partners in ministries and legal persons under public law. They proceeded to a punishing assessment, putting forward rates for worthy and unworthy employees. Why, then, today, are opposition to the proposed reform project fiercely reacting? In particular, what does the National Register of Public Administration Executives mean? Appointment of general secretaries and administrations to the Ministries and legal entities governed by public law shall cease. In other words, the party state is being abolished in the administration, on which for many decades New Democracy and PASOK have been supported, conducive to the entire country and intensifying one of the greatest pathogens of the Greek state. There's a brake in the bureaucracy and suffering of the citizens. That is to say, the parade by the ministerial and parliamentary offices for citizens' self-evident rights is stopped. We are very well aware of the anguish of counter-population, as they have built up their own political existence in this client system forty years. We are coming to the most serious question of evaluation. The previous governments have turned this word into all falls. But did they really want it? Only as an excuse for redundancies. They never really wanted it and they don't want it to be assessed, which we're introducing into this bill. They did not want it because the evaluation would spoil the customer system that they excavated, would destroy their routine practice, make our 'problems' superfluous with which they have been politicized for so many years. One thing is certain: Mr Mitsotakis of modernization and reforms is as reformer as "the bar from Koroni". That is what we are living today and that is what we want to change today. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to focus on a subject that has become a lot of gratuitous to date. The opposition when it was given the opportunity was not ashamed to attack the posted officials of the Government, forgetting that their number was drastically reduced over the days of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. He on purpose blurred the waters, speaking misleadingly and generally of public appointments, confusing the temporary appointments of the retired with the permanent appointments, which he has served in the public sector, the parties. This government has shown that it is not afraid to clash with strong interests and chronic diseases that have afflicted our country. This bill is an essential step towards a public sector, for which all Greeks can be proud, for a public that is not an enemy but an ally of the citizen, for a State that does not discriminate, is not paid off, is not brought in and is brought in by any political authority. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] In conclusion, I would really like to remember the passion with which Mr Vorides concluded his speech when he said "unlikely no, I do not vote for this bill". We understand that very well because the Opposition must understand that this government with the bills it brings does not only create a political issue and a problem in Anti-Policy, but it raises from what it seems today and an existential problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u299	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Kyriazidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because there have been particular references to the refugee - migration - there has also been a squeezing of the New Democracy on the part of Mr Flavouraris' Minister but also of my friend, Minister Nikos Pappas, I sincerely address myself to my colleagues in the New Democracy in particular because, fellow Members and colleagues, this has been the case when the famous negotiations on the economy, that four-month period, ended up in a terrible failure for the country and we have had to retrospectively all together here, or rather the two-two-two, to help because this was about the country's existence, its survival. And that is why you are coming today too many times to leave New Democracy and the other parties because they have worked in a joint national effort and we must apologise for that! Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues of the New Democracy, the same will happen with the refugee - immigration. We heard it in here today. We never saw the Civic Opposition, then SYRIZA, coming out of the country to strengthen a national position. All we heard outside was a permanent 'category'. And of course, we also heard these famous reports against Europe's leaders, Olad, Merkel and so on, together with Podemos, with Die Linke and so on, etc., etc. Unfortunately, we now have the refugee - immigration. We have a national position, you have seen it outside the country. On the other hand, it cannot internally be said that there is no dialogue here, that there is no control over you the way you have dealt with the whole issue. No mention can be made of the fact that you suddenly discovered during August that there is such a matter. Now you are giving us a resignation because we have also worked together on this matter. That's what it looked like today. I come to the bill, Mr President. It is said very often that public administration is a great patient in the Greek state. Phenomena of indebtedness, bias, corruption, corruption, violations and more are reported daily, phenomena truly morbid, for which I believe one of us and the taxpayers of Greeks who support public administration do not rejoice when they are presented. But this is where the first serious question arises. Are we aware that these phenomena are not just enough to exorcise them? Have we realised that they need roots? So do we really want to step on these phenomena? In other words, do we want to do the patient well, or do we ultimately choose conscious drugs and solutions that exacerbate his condition, in order to mock his ears, nourish the party state, nepotism, opacity, anxiety and corruption? Colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry to see that, despite the fact that the bill bears a paradox "Rapidity, merit and efficiency of public administration" only this will not succeed and is doomed to fail. Why? Despite strong and resounding titles, heavy expressions, empty crowns on the part of the government and the optimism of SYRIZA colleagues, its provisions lead to a new party state and a party paradigm, unfortunately, of underground routes. Instead of the lessons of the past - which have been emphasized on our part too many times - to become aware of us, unfortunately this bill is leading to administrative counter-reformation, literally devouring the efforts of the latter governments to put a order in the instability of the public. Thus, this bill, beyond the fine title and the excellent theory of the explanatory statement, does not only add anything, instead removes and cancels the effort that had been made to finally get a public order. And what are you going to do with the provisions that are being voted on? A greater hug of political power and governmental party subsystems with public administration, despite the opposing announcements to governments and all of this at the expense of democracy, real transparency and also the imperative objectivity. After all, we have all recently witnessed how the government means transparency, political neutrality, when at night it decided to cleanse the Chief of Greek Police and dozens of Greek Police officers with a rich, commonly accepted work, with decisions that have unfortunately been made badly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And, of course, these came about and happened in the firefighting. This document I'm about to submit is yesterday's report of the Pan-Hellenic Officers Federation. We have played, Mr President, so that there will be a committee on the crisis. You have not helped and we are not helping you in that direction. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned reference, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] She's a hurricane, and I'd say it's a worrying report.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u301	Finish in a minute, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u302	I am sorry, Mr President, but unfortunately this is the harsh reality and I have to run on the issues of the bill. Mr President, the bill was developed by our rapporteur in a very comprehensive way, but unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, while the people believe their ears more, despite their eyes, are more myth than the facts, despite the fact that they are more imaginative than their crisis - this is how a great poet - has said, unfortunately, they are slowly over. They are ending for all of us, colleagues and colleagues. As much as you are trying through propaganda, the promise - weapons and gifts that the "Government of the Left" needs, within many introductorys - lies cannot overshadow the truth. So, to look at the merits of introducing this bill, we are making the reference to the register of Heads of Government, which you are exempt from - I am referring to the private sector - and my colleague, Mr Armalene, referred to. There is a reference to issues that are particularly relevant to the subject of substance. For example, in any case that Command Selection Councils are set up in the AACC, why the majority of members of an independent authority are not made up...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Miriazides, you have to close up. You've been talking for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, I have to make these reports because it is a bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u305	You are due, Mr Colleague, but you are also entitled to do so. We must give them the opportunity to 'debate' too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u306	Just a minute, Mr President, thank you. Is it recommended that public administration should be able to extract and place civil servants freely? And I come to the evaluation system. What's newly introduced? What's your reform incision? What is the logic of the collapse of the existing strict but in many legal evaluation systems? What will the state, the citizen, the commander and the civil servant carrying out their duties perfectly with new changes? The answer is simple. Nothing. And not only this, but unfortunately issues are unfortunately being created from the window and balconies of partyism and the hug of public administration are being created.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u307	You're done, Mr. Cryazides. You've been talking for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u308	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u309	Make it close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u310	Gentlemen of the government, I find it regrettable that you eat and contradict, you say and you unleash, and that the world sees it, society and civil servants see it. Everyone sees it and, furthermore, you cannot hide behind beautiful words and hollow theories. If there were counter-reform oscars, your government would be a provoi. I am sorry, Mr President, that such a bill cannot have my vote, which might have to have a huge issue that concerns stable in that country, such as public administration. But I cannot vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u311	Thank you. Mr Tsirkas and then Mr Skourletis have the floor for some references.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after five months of the second administration of the Left, we are in front of extremely revealing aspects of public economic and social life, tax evasion lists at last in light with Greek depositors, extortion circuits, persecutions for disputed lending. It is obvious that the climate is changing and changing with a democratic air, it changes with a sense of law, which even media administrations choose to silence. And we're continuing with today's bill. This government continues the work of decoupling the state, which has already started and is coming to overthrow many of the pathogens that have been afflicting public administration for decades. This is a project that promotes transparency, dignity and efficiency. Because both the state and the public administration have been in a deep crisis for many years, a crisis of direction, a crisis of strategy, a crisis of structure. We have received, it is well known, a state with an antiquated structure, oriented to serve the respective parties of power and not the needs of the citizen, based entirely on customer relations. We are, however, determined - and the government shows this with this bill - to move forward and take the big step towards modernising the state and public administration. Our vision and aim is to create a state that serves the real needs of the citizens and sets up a development path for the country. Unfortunately, from the point of view of Officer Mitsotakis, led by Mr Mitsotakis, they continue in this extreme neoliberal course of the New Democracy. For we do not forget that Mr Mitsotakis, as Minister at the Samara government, was the one who undertook to sacrifice the public sector, through the availability of redundancies of thousands of teachers, cleaners, school guards, low-wage workers. It has therefore deformed, Mr Kyriazidis, the public administration and we are now coming to reform this vicious regime that has been agitating the country for decades. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill focuses on a model of administration with an expanded social role, with upgraded structures. The main pillar of this project is the National Register of Officials of Public Administration, the evaluation system, the rating structure of posts, the system of selection of heads. For the first time, the assessment of structures and persons, the selection of executives, the emergence of executives, which are regulated in such a way as to create a system of law, integrated and methodical. This is done by setting up a national register that overturns this antiquated structure and the outdated way of organising and operating the state and public administration. A solid demand for the reintroduction of legality and transparency is therefore accepted and reality. The functioning of the public sector by the political leadership in question is dismantled by the creation of this national register and by the inclusion, if they so wish, of candidates to cover such administrative positions of increased responsibility. Responsibility and effectiveness are therefore at the heart of the functioning of the public administration. Very innovative. The positions of the Secretary-General, Deputys and Special Secretaries shall be addressed to members of that Registry. It will no longer be a hybrid of a political administrative institution, but it will be the continuity and institutional memory of the public administration. We are coming to assess the structures in order to upgrade and train civil servants. As the Minister said yesterday, it is not our duty to throw them on the road but we must train them and incorporate them into the structures they need so that the public system can function fully. This is how we support the human potential of public administration, with the aim of gaining a new role with essential responsibilities and rights. We make the citizen a partner in the control and social accountability that the public administration must give. The citizen must consume these good or bad services not as a customer but as a citizen and become a participant in this process of social control. The involvement of the public in public administration is therefore institutionalised and its functioning is thus becoming more democratic, with greater transparency and always in consultation with society. In conclusion, Mr President, I will say that this new 'architectural' in the public sector is taking us a great deal of step forward. It is a long-term reform aimed at radical changes for a different public administration. After all, it is our permanent position and our visions and a great bet for the Left Government to achieve this, a public administration independent, democratic, transparent, free of all forms of client state, away from clichéism and party rule, based on social participation and constant control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr. Circa. Mr. Skourletis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, how would you like to know if a former Minister did not know that what has been established in the European Union for years in the context of climate change policy, the auctions, the amounts resulting from auctioning for pollutants, are controlled by Europe and must be given for specific green actions? I mention this to ask you the question who this Minister is. You heard him a while ago. He is the former Minister of State, Mr Maniatis, who, with an excess and a surplus of nerves, has asked a question about the amendment tabled in the particular bill that we are debating today and provides for the allocation of these amounts. So he asked the question: "But, well, where will these go? Do you want to give them to any of your own companies?' This really, if it does not show ignorance, shows a cheap political attitude of opposition. In this amendment we predict that 60% of these amounts - from the auctions for gas certificates - will go to the special account for the RES. It's this EMFF that we all pay in our accounts. Some of the rest of the money will go to the fund that we voted to set up last November, the energy saving fund, for energy compensation. It was a fund with which Mr Maniotis had disagreed because, while he was obliged, while he was in the Ministry, to incorporate this directive, he did not do so and, obviously, he now did not have the courage to agree with the establishment of this fund. In fact, then, it was said: 'But why are they not going to the Green Fund already in existence'? Let me tell you why they are not going to the Green Fund. Because of the money going to the Green Fund only 2.5% has the right to direct them to corresponding actions, because the rest, on the basis of the agreements that the country has signed for many years, is going for fiscal stabilisation. Another party, which will determine the ministerial decision from this money, will be in return for the industry which pays for the purchase of these certificates. That is all, absolutely transparent with sure targeting, and I would say with a necessary ultimately effective effort to operate this measure. I called before Mr Maniotis that he either did not know or, in any case, wanted to make a cheap type of confrontation. But it wasn't content with it. He mentioned something else. He had the courage of a law passed since 2010, which provided that from renewable energy sources, where there are large wind or hydroelectric parks, 1% is retained and that 1% is given to the inhabitants of these areas belonging to these installations - this law has been voted on since 2010 - so we, who just signed these more than 18 million euros to go, at last, to be credited...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u315	A year you should have signed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u316	Please! It's not enough that you lie and mislead the world, you're interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u317	The money...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u318	So you had the nerve to tell us about the money you had withholded since 2010 and you hadn't given it to us and to give up because we did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u319	And they're waiting for the money...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u320	Don't yell, and don't interrupt, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u321	And he says, "But I signed a HQ in 2014" which you mention. Only the CSU is a good intentional mood, but it doesn't have in it the recipients' tables. There was nothing of this. And then, because he realized that the elections were coming and the crash came, a decision came out of his office that went back from the agencies and talks about 20 million euros due, just to fool his constituents. It's a classic example of how you operated, gentlemen of the previous government. Of course, this practice is common. We are saying a lie, we call on the government, it is reproduced by the interconnected media - we all see it this time - and we think that we can stand by the political scene. Watch out, these kinds of practices are now known. Everyone realizes that every Syrian provincial MP when he goes to his place of origin for the weekend, there's a camera that happens to be waiting for him. It's just accidental! Everyone understands why, at the moment, for bankrupt channels 'now for all of them', in order to maintain their achievements. Knowing something: You were the complication and we're the overthrow of it. This is what the world knows, and that is why it has its objections to politics, even though it is protesting - and rightly so - on aspects of this policy, at the same time gives room for time to be tested and evaluated. It is an effort that, through its contradictions, seeks with nails and teeth always make the people a part of these decisions. And this is the great qualitative difference of the current government, that it has not concealed its own plan in the run-up to the election. He's trying to put the country on another road. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the moments are critical and require more responsibility than cheap political intervention, which lacks alternatives, lacks a clear position and, above all, only bets on a well-meaning concept - I would say - displeasure that arises through the difficulties of the situation. We believe much more than you in the maturity of this people, and we have shown that we can finally make those choices that will open up another prospect for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Mr Stylus has the floor, and then Mrs Katsavria, because she spoke with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the Step after the Minister's position, and I cannot try to draw any conclusions from his way, style and tone. We all know that, and you know that, and the Greek society experiences it, that the government is completely locked up. He can't go forward or backwards. What are the data that makes it completely locked? It is the assessment, which, according to the Minister for Finance, if it is not completed by May, we will have a problem. It is also the refugee issue, which is a thorny and great issue. Instead of coming and trying to create a climate of understanding, composition, consensus or at least low tons and a smooth debate, the government is coming to Parliament and is trying to raise tons, find internal opponents, find internal enemies, tell us that it fights, fights, claims, beats the conflict. And he's fine, he's hitting her. Besides, we all know each other here. Personally, I had nothing to do with it, I've never been involved. However, with what you say, ladies and gentlemen, do you think you are solving the problems of Greek citizens? So, you're dealing with the unemployment issue when we have one and a half million unemployed right now? Do you have a solution, you find a proposal, do you have a plan for refugee? Oh, no. So what are we trying to do? We are exporting to the Greek citizens a conflict-affected situation, so that we can escape the difficult situation we are in. I'll say it in quotes. "We fly the ball to the cradle" and we think that in this way we have managed to win the impressions. The Greek people, however, ladies and gentlemen, are out there and is a judge. He listens, he sees, he's watching and controlling all. We too, as a Qualified Opposition, are sufficient in our control role to demonstrate the bad texts by the government. Today we are discussing the draft law entitled "National Register of Officials of Public Administration, Qualification Structure, Systems of Evaluation, Promotion and Selection of Heads (transparency, Criminology and Effectiveness of Public Administration)". He is a resounding and heavy title, but without content. Is the title responding to the content? I don't think he's responding. A second point: is this bill a Memorandum of Understanding? It's a Memorandum Obligation. You were against the Memorandum. Is there also a good part of the memorandum, which you accept and come to implement? I would remind you that in the memorandum you signed this summer and voted on at dawn on 14 August, it says that you need to embrace it and assimilate it. I hope and hope that the SYRIZA colleagues really have assimilated it. Why don't we believe in this bill? We have specific objections. What's the point? The first objection concerns the timing of implementation of the bill. If you thought so, it should be applied from yesterday, because you and every government that comes, comes to take the country forward to improve the bad texts. It's coming to move on in the future. It does not come to follow the stumbling-up of previous governments. Otherwise, there would be no change. So instead of coming and correcting the pathogens - and pathogens were the appointed public administration - you come and say "we go for 2018 and see". Secondly, we have a great deal of objection, ladies and gentlemen, that for the positions of the Secretary-General and the Special Secretaries, who are political positions, you do not accept in the national register that they should be registered and successful officials from the public administration. What do you show that? You show a lack of courage, show a lack of boldness and show that you do not want to deal with the problem. I would point out to you one thing: according to the last OSCE report, the cost of bureaucracy in our country is 6.8% of GDP, when the average of bureaucracy in the remaining twenty-seven European countries is just 3.5%. What does that mean with numbers, numbers and amounts? It means about 10 billion. This is the first time that the European Parliament has adopted a It means an extra cost to private sector enterprises, around 5-6 billion, money that the Greek economy needs and you deprive them of the new generation of our country. So what should this bill include?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Style, speak one more minute and close. Your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u325	I don't see my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u326	Your time has been filled, I just hung up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u327	Okay, thanks. So I say very specifically, Mr President, and I shall end - if you left him, I could be more precise in time and get him, because I never get over time - with three issues: Firstly, the existence of transparency. We do not believe that the government is fighting for transparency and encouraging transparency. We remember on Christmas Eve what you voted on about 'HUMANY'. You could take the thread and go further. Secondly, the existence of an assessment throughout the public administration, both in people and in structures. Thirdly, a great and basic parameter, e-government. Because at our hearts it is to make public administration better, serve the public interest and do so in objective procedures, with an objectively integrated system, which electronic governance and technology gives us this possibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the message here today should be a consensus. It should be the message that "we want investment in the country" and that we are doing with a better public administration. Unfortunately, this is not the case. "Indulgences, fateful and indifferent adversaries", as the lyrics of Varnalis say, "we perhaps expect a miracle". Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u328	Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this draft law on the modernisation of public administration and on a public ally, which will inevitably bring to the mind of every citizen once, usually, an unpleasant picture or experience of his or her contact with public services. And, of course, the usual argument personalises responsibilities and incriminates - who else? - the civil servant. This will intentionally attempt to disorientate from the real debate, which concerns the state, the way it is formed and the interests it serves. Without a doubt, it is the control of the state that fuels political controversy and political conflict, as state activities are linked to every aspect of social, economic and cultural life. Their role is therefore the basis on which political perceptions, theories and practices are built. At this point, I would like to point out that in the past, the policies of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have used the state as their asset in order to consolidate their political pursuits, which had no purpose but to recycle them into power. But that wasn't enough for them. With their full submission to the great interests and incomprehensible thirst for power led the country to overcompensation, the memorials, the limitation of national sovereignty, economic shrinkage and social impoverishment. At the same time, we are told that it is the size of the state, the number of civil servants, the wages in the private sector and the pensions and not the years of their administration, which prevailed in complexity, corruption and opacity. This is why, in their memoranda, the state was reduced to 33%, when in Europe the average is 45%. That's why they cut wages and pensions over 40%. That is why the current President and the Vice-President of the New Democracy, who have faithfully implemented the policies of redundancies and the destruction of the public health system, are insisting today on new pension cuts and the abolition of ancillarys. When, for example, they say they don't vote for the insurance, that's what they mean. When they are in line with the IMF and are talking about saving resources from expenditure, that is exactly what more poverty means greater impoverishment for the world of work. Ladies and gentlemen, just on the opposite side there is our perception, vision and policy of our own government, as is reflected in the draft legislation that few would think would ever be voted on in Greece. For the first time for forty years, public administration has been independent, self-determination, and it has ceased to be a feud of the government in question. It seeks to establish the principles of transparency, equality and dignity in the way of the selection and development of the executive capacity of the public administration. The bill is a huge reform section for Greece. On the basis of excellence, we are trying to manage the public's human resources, while our aim is to create an integrated and reliable programme of administrative reorganisation. One of the main pillars of the bill is undeniably, as defined in Article 1, the establishment of the National Register of Officials of Public Administration. The logic of the national register is for public administration officials and has a great financial benefit. It is worth mentioning that the Secretary-General of the Ministries, the Presidents, the Vice-Presidents, the Governors and all the heads of legal persons governed by public law will be drawn from the National Register of Staff, based on their mobilisation and their suitability. For those who accuse us of not taking advantage of private sector officials, we will tell them that the private sector will contribute to the establishment of legal persons under private law, where the positions of director or deputy director are provided for. A very important innovation is the implementation of the evaluation system. Ladies and gentlemen, having served the public sector for many years with faith and dignity, I can say that I would be very happy, if there were any possibility for all these years to be assessed, which has never been done. With new organisational schedules and locations, it will now be possible to assess both existing and heads, within the service and by citizens, in order to be objective and impartial in the relevant positions. The government shows confidence in the human resources of the public administration and enables it to operate independently with a sense of responsibility so that the state can continue. Anyone who knows the basic principles of human resource management, the so-called human resources, easily understands that this draft law introduces important innovations and adopts modern management methods. From top to bottom of the public administration, the employee takes the place he deserves through transparent, collective and aptitude procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u330	Please complete. You've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u331	I would like a minute more, Mr President. Citizens, society and the economy can now well expect the state, the public administration will be a reliable tool, ally and arrogant in trying to get out of the crisis, development and social justice. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mrs. Katsavria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u333	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u334	No, Mr. Maniatis, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u335	I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u336	There's no personal, Mr. Maniatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u337	Please give me a minute to document...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u338	What do you have to substantiate? You said strongly, typically with the experience you have and the Minister said what he thought he had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Skourletis said that I have personal ignorance of matters...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u340	He didn't personally remind you. Excuse me. Alas, if ignorance is personal to each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, I just want a minute to prove why ignorance concerns the Minister with his press release yesterday his own one that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u342	You're already talking. You've got one minute and you're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u343	For a year he was pitying and doing nothing. Please, can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u344	You've already started, but there's no staff. Let's get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u345	There's absolutely personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u346	No staff. There's a point. Tell her. It's not a matter. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, Minister Skourletis has abstained from answering my complaint in my speech that he asks the House to give him, in white and opaque, the management of EUR 60 million every year by a body which does not name and on criteria that he does not name, from money that will be made available to the Greek State because of the sale of pollutant rights. Because Mr Skourletis has chosen to answer another question, and I am pleased that I have not mentioned it. But yesterday I issued a statement and said this very simple: Mr. Skourletis, like another Minister of Government for a year, was being merciful, because when SYRIZA - ANEL took office after the January elections, he found in the drawer of 18 million euros collected in 2012, 2013 and 2014 from the fees collected by the state from the wind parks and found and signed and signed by me and published by the Government's Journal of the State in order to allocate this money to the approximately twenty-five thousand poor houses of the seventy-two mountain villages of the country. Instead of taking the money and distributing it, Mr Skourletis has been doing absolutely nothing for a year now, because he had to take a year to show that it was a SYRIZA project, not a project of the previous bad ones. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Yesterday he published a press release in which he clearly stated that "I issue and distribute the money, applying the ministerial decision and only the one signed by the Maniotis and published in the Government's Journal Leaf". I therefore fully return the designations, telling him that ignorance is about him, but his responsibility towards the Greek people and the Greek citizens of the mountain villages who should have given them this money that is about 700 to 800 euros for each household is a huge mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u348	Don't repeat it. Third time is the mountain villages.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u349	It is, in fact, a political feasibility to sell to voters as a supposed work of SYRIZA something that they are not entitled to do. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u350	And yet, look at the "Ignorance" you responded with "saving", "slapping" and "slapping" etc. Do you understand that? See your speech to see that three personally could stand if Ignorance is justified personal. Leave it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u351	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u352	After Mr. Danellis, Mr. Skourletis will make it up to you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u353	Mr President, let's turn it off now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u354	No, no. We're not closing it now. After Mr. Dannelly, we'll close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u355	It'll get lost all the time. I'll keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u356	There's nothing missing. Next year you will respect it, but you will say something that will then continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u357	We'll have suspense too, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u358	Allow me, for people to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u359	Leave it, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u360	Mr. Danielle, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u361	What's to agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u362	I said that if you talk next, you'll have created suspense, it'll be better for the climate. But if you insist, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u363	I insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u364	Okay, if you insist. Between friends... Mr Panos Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u365	Looks like ignorance is confirmed for the second time. I have here a press release that had come out under Mr Maniotis' office on 5 January 2015, where the amount he is saying now, the 18 million that Mr Maniotis supposedly collected with labor and torture - had done nothing at all - he mentions it to 13,390,731 euros. Inaccurate, then, second. [[At this point, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr Maniatis, you made a ministerial decision just to convince the voters that you were doing something while you had forgotten them and fooled them in the previous years by law in 2010. Do you know what it means, practically, that this law has not been implemented? It means that now, with the money that will take to the instant villages, in some cases, for three, four, five, six years, the world will not pay the electricity of PPC. And you ignored that. Secondly, the other thing I said, and you did not answer, and you deliberately did not understand, is that it is about the ignorance that again seems to exist with regard to who is supervising - and the European Union - where the money is going and where it is strictly for green actions, the certificates and the auctions of gas certificates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u367	No, Mr. Maniot. There's no way. I will not allow former-minded fights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u368	He's cheating on the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u369	The same goes for the committees. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u370	He's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u371	Please. There are MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u372	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u373	No minute. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u374	The Minister reports...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u375	Please get an announcement or talk out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u376	I tell this House that the Minister is lying. It applies exactly what we voted on. In fact, he had voted against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u377	Please, Mr. Maniotis. You are also a decent and experienced person. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear that the refusal to reconcile with reality, which also characterises our political system and society, is now so strong that it tends to be like a specific political autism. Despite the assurances given to the Prime Minister, only four days ago, that until the special summit on 6 March, no unilateral action would be taken, the closure of our northern borders is already a reality. Turkey seems to dynamise NATO's engagement to control flows in the Aegean, facilitating even greater numbers of refugees and migrants to Greece. Brussels has already talked about a humanitarian crisis and their availability, directly, to meet the needs of this crisis. It is a humanitarian crisis that will be real, ladies and gentlemen, not the one you see in us as, a few months ago. Our country is in front of the nightmare of turning it into a warehouse of desperate people. In these unprecedented difficult times, farmers are escalating their extreme violent behaviour in the blockages - and we are talking about the farmers of the blockages, not all of whom are farmers - as good students of the antimony bay, paralysing all economic activities. They appear incapable of realising that the voices of agony, just yesterday, of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Exporters concern the destruction, to a very large extent, of producers of agri-food products. And because the President of the Ice Bay, Mrs Thanos, "the Lord is incapable of disposing of you" and within the points, as a whole, of the times, the President of the Ice Bay, Mrs. Thanos, filed a complaint against the Professor of Constitutional Law, Mr. Stavros Tsakirakis, for his critical remarks, months ago, on his blog, on the letter - remember - sent to the Presidents of the Supreme Courts of the Member States of the European Union, an act which is, in any case, unprecedented for the European Union's judicial times, confusing the exercise of criticism, which is the right of every citizen, moreover, to every public person, by exalting and defaming. Its act is a dangerous institutional slip. She asks colleagues to judge a legal person and recommends that a judge, the President of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, be witnessed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u379	Please be quiet. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u380	I would remind you that by means of recent legislation you have decided that the President of the Ice Bay alone could exercise disciplinary action against any judge. You're aware of what slippery road we're putting the country with your choices? They are choices of status and authoritarianism, which are far from functioning democracy, but also the worthy codes of the Left, ladies and gentlemen. We must admit, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate on this bill reveals another paradox. There is no wing of the House that does not agree that immediate and substantial reform of the public sector is needed, a reform which is a prerequisite for the country to emerge from the crisis, but also for restoring citizens' confidence in public administration, which is currently a source of problems. We all agree that the Greek public is characterised by hydrocapitalism of public services, customer relations, lack of planning, irrationality, corruption phenomena and unregulated partyism. In short, we all agree that this is the 'big patient'. History, however, proves that while we agree on disease, we totally disagree with treatment. Traditionally, all governments either postpone treatment or make discounts on what they announce or institutionalize. I fear that you, too today, are not getting away from the rule, giving the message to society that, as it is, this public system as a whole is convenient for the political system as a whole. How else does it explain - let us say an example - the night amendment of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Tourism, which essentially dismantles the "pillover" of the draft under discussion before this is completed? The exception of the EOT from the application of the national register of public administration staff shall allow the Minister to appoint the Board of Directors again without any merit. Are these modern methods of private sector administration, as stated in the explanatory statement to the amendment? Here we simply have a carabinatological customer service at the expense of your own legislation. And last night I had the opportunity to say that you alone are wronged by what you say you want to do. And last night we agreed - I think that the reform of the public sector is the mother of the reforms, which will give us a European regularity. I fear that you are writing with one hand and extinguishing with the other, because you soon discovered what was happening over time, that chaos in public administration is the most sure way of establishing a government in power. In Article 36, which provides for the return of officials to the public and their stay in the service for five more years until the 60-seven-year-olds ceiling has been reached, there is a relative marginal improvement. But it remains the outrageous Minister's decision every year to whom he will extend his stay to the service until he is retired. And we are talking about fifteen thousand people, which will depend on this ministerial decision. This is, obviously, a peculiar return to the era of Klathmonos square with left features. Of course, it is very positive that, at last, after almost twenty years, you have been restoring an injustice. I remember that he had also dealt with me from here in twenty years ago - I was a coalition MP at the time - the restoration of injustice for all those successors of the AACC competition in 1997. And eighteen years - to be precise - then is the time of justice? This act of right must, of course, be completed. We will be voting in favour of the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs yesterday, because there is a problem. There is a problem with the extradition of the new European visa for visitors mainly from Russia and the other BRICS countries with the new biometric characteristics, which, of course, also requires staff - which does not exist - and logistical infrastructure. I would point out, however, that, in the hope that everything will go well and that we will not have overturns in the extremely sensitive sector of tourism, which is the only one operating and still bringing income - that between 15 May and 15 September, in other words, in about a hundred working days, it is estimated that these new, special visas should be issued for at least a thousand people. And that means that daily production is going through nine thousand visas. So we should be prepared in every case. And I would point out here that we could have this preparation, because we knew that this new reality exists, the new data on those wishing to visit us from the Russian market. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the dangers of us becoming a failed state, unfortunately, as much as anyone said a few days ago that it is a nightmare and in the sphere of fantasy, are now visible. Three-four days ago the President of the SPD and the German Vice-Chancellor, Mr Gabriel said: "God, do not lead with our choices Greece to the dance of ungrateful states." Let us take care, ladies and gentlemen, that it is our duty not to create the conditions that will lead us to this nightmare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mrs Papanatsiou will now take the floor. Then Mr. Famelos will speak. As you have already understood, a Member will speak and then a parliamentary representative will speak. Then, after the next Member, Mrs Kerameos will speak and then Mr Theocharopoulos will speak. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are saddened by some colleagues here, such as the previous colleague of the Democratic Alliance, who we are tearing down the state - loot, a model that you have built consistently and systematically throughout the post-multiple period. Fortunately, however, when the Greek people have no memory of goldfish and the most recent, the notorious 4-2-1, remembers only very well. Many of us, who are from the province and there you know that we are very well acquainted with each other, know who appointed who. It is true, of course, that over the past five years the public sector has been in the eye of the cyclone extreme neoliberal politicians, which have been adopted by the previous governments. We witnessed mass redundancies and the position of civil servants in availability, without any logic and the launching of heads and directors at night, without any substantial evaluation. This government demonstrates every day that all it needs to change things in this place is political will. The first government bill after the elections on 20 September is in line with this. The comments made on the first day of the public consultation are not at all random. Number of citizens commented on the draft law very positively. The bill is structured in three parts: Establishment of the Civil Service Executives Register, assessment of structures and civil servants, selection of heads. The most radical change that comes to the public with the bill concerns the establishment of this register, which will be made up of high-qualified officials. General, Deputy Secretary-General and Special Secretaries of Ministries, Presidents, Governors, Chief Executive Officers and members of the Management Board of Legal Persons shall be assigned exclusively to members of the Board. With regard to the evaluation, which for the first time will be two-way, I would like to say that each supervisor will assess, but he will also be assessed by his immediate subordinates. Finally, the system of selection of supervisors establishes molecules with four groups of criteria: Standard qualifications, experience, interview, evaluation. The selection of Heads of Directorate-General shall be made by the Special Selection Board following a transparent call for interest. I would like here to refer to a few points in the bill, which I consider to be of particular importance. Interview. The objective of the interview is to identify the capacities of civil servants and improve them, not punishment and dismissal. In fact, the bill explicitly provides for the adequacy and transparency of the process by which it is to be conducted. Parts and addresses complete. It is known that the decisions taken at the highest level of the public administration are often entangled at the stage of implementation due to the lack of cooperation between directorates and departments. This is what comes to correct, by establishing the fullheartedness in which all employees have the right to participate. Grade structure. The rating returns to six degrees and is disconnected from the payroll. The aim is the moral restoration of civil servants, who have all lost two points in the name of the Memorandum of Understanding commitments made by previous governments and the resumption of their professional development. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that we as a government do not have the logic of the reproduction of a client system which has led the country to a dead end. This bill is a first attempt to prevent customer and party relations and all kinds of pre-formative or mathematical blockades of competent civil servants, while overthrowing legislation with outdated methods of punishment and compulsory graduation quotas. So this bill comes into being in an overall plan what we call human resources management throughout the public sector. Put democracy and dignity first in the public administration, meanings which are almost unknown to you, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. Your goal in previous years was to charge your own party sins in the hands of a so-called multi-expected and disloyal public sector. Without a plan and study, you have been expelled into one night by officials from agencies who are currently squeezing behind the work volume and are afflicting the final recipient, the citizen. The public sector has created it in image and in harmony, and this is the end of it today. Democracy, deserve and modernisation with transparency take the lead of the current government, as well as of shouting, all officials know, feel and understand that this bill is to the mutual benefit of themselves and of the citizens as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mrs. Papanatsiou. Mr. Famelos has the floor for eight minutes. I would ask that everyone observe the time, so that we can cope with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u384	Mr President, for me you have probably said so, thank you very much. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with the bill, and at the end, if I have time, I will make a more general comment. Today, for the second day, we are discussing this bill of major administrative reform on the evaluation of officials, on the evaluation of the functioning of the public service in terms of rating, on the development of the heads of staff and on the register of officials. I think, however, that we need to clarify some institutional things. Firstly, this bill entered a full democratic process of posting, consulting, informing society and without any violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, Mrs Kerameus. If you think any infringement has been committed, here is the Step in plenary. You have not brought any action against the Rules of Procedure and against the Constitution. Why did you deprive Parliament of such a democratic right? Of course, I must add that this bill was fully discussed in committee, fully in plenary, with democratic rights for all opposition parties and fully costly, as was described by the Minister. The second issue. This bill is not a small regulation, it is a part of the parallel program, which was announced before January 2015. It is the cornerstone of the great democratic change in our country, because it includes the main element of returning to democracy in the public. It is democratic, participatory and gives equal opportunities. Third matter. It is not a Memorandum of Understanding, it is a democratic obligation, and I say that to colleagues in the Communist Party. It is our social and democratic obligation. It is deeply democratic because it overthrows neoliberal functions of the public sector, which you have also condemned and is democratic and friendly, because for the first time it enables the managers of the existing ones to be assessed, by the workers within the hierarchy of public administration and, of course, because it restores sovereignty and justice to the public, so that the worker, the unemployed, the small and medium-sized businessman does not need rousfetti to be served on an equal footing. Isn't that what we want? Not to be the big owner, the large industrialist, more ahead of the public administration. I think that is what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen. What are the major changes that have not been sufficiently understood and should we bring them back to the debate? This bill can be restored by the Staff Regulations and by the position of the Administrative Secretary, as described by the Minister, to restore and maintain the institutional memory within the Ministries. This institutional memory comes from public sector officials exclusively from the list of executives, without private sector participation, is the top of the administrative pyramid and does not change with elections. Of course, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, with another bill concerning the governmental bodies, the government will come to legislate on posters, namely those who have so far become accustomed to calling the Secretary-General and all the staff of the public sector in terms of civil administration. Well, clear things. The public sector is run by a civil servant, the civil servants are not invaded, public service is not partisan. The second question is the timing of application. A lot of questions have been raised, like why up to two years? But, very simply, because you didn't understand what you were reading. If officials have to be assessed, evaluation sheets should be created after an annual operation per year, how would they be classified as administrative responsibility posts without a test without the evaluation sheets? Obviously, with the appointed ones you had as supervisors, so with donations of rating criteria. Is that what you wanted? Your kids to take care of again. So we say quite simply: there will be an evaluation cycle, and in no more than two years' time it will be implemented everywhere, but for the positions of the administrative secretaries, for the head of the pyramid, it is now being implemented. We dare. Will you vote for it? Your own progress and implementation, but not with the posts taken by your own children. Non-public sector. Can he participate in command? Our answer is that the private sector of the economy, which you wanted - you might want to bring Mr Christoforkos to a Ministry - cannot participate. I beg your pardon, this is over in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u385	Did you bring any civil servants now? In the five hundred, do you have a civil servant?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u386	We will not have a Secretary-General in Greece. It's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u387	Don't face things. Go ahead, Mr. Felmelle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u388	You're right, Mr. President. The non-public sector clearly has a role to play. Why? Because you have just gone on for so many years and tried to get young scientists out of the street, not to be recruited in public, not to have scientists, not to have innovation. So our thoughts are that, for the staff of legal persons, not administrative secretaries, we will expand the register. In addition, implementing positions may be used to make use of the knowledge of the non-public sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Triantafylides, please. Mr. Famelos speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u390	Let us make it clear, however, that from society and science we will obviously use public officials. From the economy and managers with interests, no. It will become a clear code of conduct, it will become clear what is a conflict of interest and in this context yes, obviously the civil servants - scientists are the children of our country that we want to keep them here, are the scientists who will enter and serve the public sector as well. We come to the last, as to how specific it is. Our basic need and love for this bill was to be concrete and objectively criteria. How is that possible? Read one more time before you vote. In Articles 17 and 18, it is described that the targeting, i.e. the calibration of the target set by each employee and by each service, is a key criterion, so that it can be assessed and there is no subjective criterion from any political father. But, Mr President, there is a risk that this debate will be undermined by a more general political environment. Obviously, the refugee crisis and the international crisis in Syria, as well as the agricultural, insurance, the difficulties of the agreement, even the tension - and I would say above all the tension - of the government's conflict with corruption are a little downwards in this debate. For us it is clear and the mandate we received in September is clear and expected and the reaction. They are unacceptable articles to characterise the government of the four months, because independent justice explores sea-loving, which the previous governments have allowed some great publishers to take, while at the same time the same centres are trying to create Mr Mitsotakis' hagiography, which they do not succeed, despite pre-morning meals, despite the retransmission from a television station of Mr Mitsotakis. Listen to this! That's ethical! Do you know why? Quite simply, because the people know that Mr. Mitsotakis is private insurance, confiscation of subsidies to pay the contributions of farmers to the OGA and, of course, dismantling the directors-general all over the state to put general managers in his ministry, the latter in the ranking. Because we are in a difficult situation, I believe that we need strong political administration in the country with an autonomous European presence. Neither does Mr Soibble's clerk nor the relayer of the xenophobic, spattered and unacceptable voices of Austria and the Visegrad countries, as Mr Adonis Georgiadis relayed to this Chamber yesterday. It takes a progressive, modern and democratic government, the government of Alexis Tsipras, SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks and the Efologist Greens, which has been validated four times over the last year and a half. The tension, anxiety, but also the claim, as expressed in many areas of social life, also has diversions, has various other readings. The struggles have nothing to do with steadfast episodes, with warm episodes, with violence created and by opposition officials in recent times. We know very well that they are created for reasons of impression. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. However, because we are talking about certain conquered values in society, we cannot remain uninterested in questioning the right of opinion, democratic expression of opinion and political position. And we all have, as a minimum democratic position, to condemn acts of violence, pre-conflicts and vandalism wherever they come from. And the movements must separate their position, because I believe that the farmers who finally discussed with the Prime Minister this week, after four weeks of waiting for the Prime Minister, understood that the climate of dialogue is democracy in the country. Not all of this corresponds to the democratic conquests of our country and we should not give the fights to the golden people - and I would point it out to the other political forces. Do not play the Golden Dawn and Fascism game easily. I would also like to refer particularly to my colleague from the Centroon Association, who has reiterated this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u391	You're not going to mention it, Mr. Famele. Please, make a close without mentioning, because everyone will want...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u392	Because this mistake...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u393	Delete this from the Minutes, as other things have been deleted!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u394	The previous ones will be deleted from the Minutes. Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u395	Yes, sir. Because it is possible, by pressing on the agony of citizens, to approve and lead to them, a great deal of attention is needed. We shouldn't show off and we shouldn't be heroing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u396	He referred to the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u397	...violence, fanaticism and fascism. And we all need to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u398	Do you have any evidence about what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u399	Mr. Femmelle, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u400	...to defend the freedom and democratic rights that our people have conquered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u401	Have evidence of what you're saying! We're not all the same!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u402	... because we have the opportunity to move on to a common course and colleagues know very well what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u403	Remember Keratea.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u404	The democratic reform of the administration is a first important step in reform. A lot of things will follow, but we must defend first of all the democratic goods in our country...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u405	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u406	...and its single foreign presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u407	Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor and Mrs. Kerameos then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Dimitriadis is not here, Mr. President. He's having a baby.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u409	Then Mrs. Keramea will take the floor. I would like to ask the Members of Parliament to set an example and to think about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of the "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", nineteen students and students and four teachers attending from the Bolimon High School of Zakynthos. The House is greeting you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by answering Mr Famelou's various complaints yesterday and that is to keep them from happening. Mr Famele, yesterday, instead of talking to us about the substance of the bill, this extremely important bill, as you say, and instead of responding to specific issues that we have raised, you have entered into personal attacks. You referred to Mr Mylonakis, advisor to the President, Mr Mitsotakis, in the context of the alleged partyisation of the state by Mr Mitsotakis, because he had a parallel position in the Competition Committee. You probably don't know, Mr. Famele, that Mr. Mylonakis was Mr. Manitakis' first advisor. Do you remember Mr. Manitakis? Minister of the Democratic Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u411	So what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u412	I didn't interrupt you. And when Mr. Mitsotakis received the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u413	Please stop underneath! Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u414	When Mr. Mitsotakis received the Ministry of Administrative Reform, he kept him. What did he prove? He has proved in practice that he looks above and beyond parties, which you do not know how to do. If you doubt, here is the relevant FEK, which proves the appointment of Mr. Mylonakis as advisor to Mr. Mandetakis. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, you referred to two of Mr Mitsotakis' relatives. Mr. Famelle, do you really want to talk about family and friends placements in your government? Can I remind you of the speech of Mr Varvitsiotis of 5 May 2015, which listed over sixty-six appointments of SYRIZA relatives and party officials in just three months of governance? Just three months of government! I am speaking in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thirdly, you also referred to Mr Mitsotakis' posters on his service at the Ministry of Administrative Reform and said he was fifty one. The Prime Minister himself said the same on January 27th in the House, in the pre-day insurance debate. That Mr. Mitsotakis was fifty one and Mr. Vernardakis was two. I repeat, Mr Famelle, the same document that you tabled yesterday. It is said specifically that Mr Mitsotakis' poster was only ten, but also everyone to add - and I am telling you - how many are coming out? Twenty-seven. It's half the ones the Prime Minister claims. And you know, this is a ministerial decision by the current President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi. So, you probably don't know how to count. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I could go on, Mr Famele, and testify to the FEK which proves that Mr Bernardakis' poster is not two, as the Prime Minister said, but they are clearly more. In fact, there are cases where there are parallel activities with other public posts. But, of course, this is allowed and for some reason, that's not what you like. But I am not going to submit these VETs, Mr Famele, because I do not want to fall at this level and because I respect the Minister. He does well and has advisers to do his work. Let us finally hold a level of political dialogue. A word about Harvard University and the quota. I do not want to go into the essence of whether the evaluation method is good or not. Mr Georgiadis told you yesterday that even Harvard is applying quotas. And you questioned it. Because I had the excellent honour of learning at this university, I can tell you and assure you that we had quotas and that we all read very hard and methodically in order to prove which of us deserve to be distinguished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u415	Educational work. Did you have administrative?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u416	And if you don't believe me, here's the official Harvard University graduation policy. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u417	It's a false thing to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u418	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u419	But here we are to talk about a particular bill. First of all, I will respond to something Mr Famelos said about the point of order. You said, Mr Femmelle, there are no procedural issues at all. It's a big surprise to me. Would you like to reply to us, chapter E, these twenty-three articles, have ever been placed in public consultation? Have they ever been placed in public consultation? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u420	They're not set!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u421	Is he recommending an infringement? He recommends an infringement. First theme. Secondly, do most of the provisions of Chapter V, Mr Famele, have or do they have no report from the General Accounting Office of the State? They are not accompanied by a report by the General Accounting Office of the State. We have no idea what they're gonna cost. This is a violation of both the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Constitution. And I'm actually going into it. Unfortunately, I did not receive any answers yesterday to specific issues that I raised, in relation to specific provisions of the draft law. I have not received any response to the fact that you are exempting the autonomous general secretariats from the register, Article 6. I have not received any reply that there are no conditions and conditions for the renewal of the term of office of those selected in service, Article 7(3). I have not received any reply that any posts which may be vacant will not yet be applied to them, Article 13(3). I have not received any reply on how to ensure that not all civil servants receive 9.5 and 10. No answer. And no answer to how you're going to monitor the degrees of targeting, Article 22. In addition, no response to the non-wage recognition of service in the private sector, Article 26. And, of course, no convincing response to the key issue, to the exclusion of the private sector from the register, except confirmation of your ideology, that the public interest can only be served by public officials. Minister, we spoke to you yesterday in all honesty and told you that we would be prepared to support this bill, under three conditions. The general prerequisite was if you really convinced us that what you are seeking is to dismantle public administration. And we asked you to prove that, three actions. First, include the private sector in the register. Secondly, apply the register tomorrow for all posts. If you really believe what you are doing, if you really think it is an effective measure, you have nothing to do with it from the next day. Thirdly, we have asked you to withdraw Article 48, which has fortunately been withdrawn. I will continue with the amendments which we have seen since yesterday afternoon to multiply. I will make a reference to the amendments with general numbers 252 and 263 on EOT and EVR. Gentlemen of the government, introduce an exception before the EOT and the EOT laws are passed and you tell us that this shocking law, which you are presently introducing, will not apply to the EOT and the EEA. So much do you believe in your project, gentlemen of the government, so much do you believe in the demilitarisation of the administration that before the law is passed, do you make exceptions? To sum up, in this famous bill, which has not yet been voted on and which you proudly introduce to Parliament, firstly, you say that it will not apply until the summer of 2018, secondly, that it will not apply to autonomous general secretariats, thirdly, that it will not apply to the Secretariat-General for Coordination, fourthly, that it will not apply to the EOT, fifthly, that it will not apply to the EEA. Finally, Minister, to whom is this bill applicable? If you believe it so much, why are you actually limiting its scope so much? I will say a word about photographic amendments. I am referring to Mr Pappas' amendment with a general number of 228 and a special number of 11. Paragraph 6 of this amendment excludes their compulsory transfer to Greece - listen to me! - journalists who have more than fourteen years of service in press and communication offices or in a Greek diplomatic authority and know Arabic but also know the Chinese language and serve in a press office in which the corresponding language is spoken. Gentlemen of the government, there is also a limit to photographic provisions. I dare say that this provision is almost as photographic as the one you voted a few weeks ago and I had the honour of being the only one in the whole territory to which it applied. I would remind you of this, because with great interest I saw another amendment concerning the independent authorities, but at the very least it was in the very opposite direction to the amendment you voted on a few weeks ago. It is the amendment with a general number 257 and a special number 27. In my amendment, which you had adopted in my honour, you have terminated early on a member of the Competition Committee in particular, just the Competition Committee, in breach of the law and the Constitution. You are now coming to this amendment and allow members of the constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities, who have specifically been chosen by the Conference of Presidents for a term of office, what to do? They should be able to perform a second term. Do you want, gentlemen, by signing the amendment - and Mr Famele, why did you also sign up - to tell us exactly which members of the IAS? Because we know it's the SAAP. Let us at least know who the House is legislating for, or at least - and I am closing with it - that you are going to correct your own mistakes, your idealism, which had led to the end of the terms of these members, the members concerned, a few months ago, and now you have just realised your mistake and you are going to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u422	Mrs. Keramea, excuse me. Because you referred to me, would you like some clarification at one point? I didn't understand exactly. Also, because I have an involvement in this matter, I would like to tell you that the amendment on the independent authorities does not in any way concern the AACC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u423	But?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u424	It concerns very specific situations that have been created and because we are in agreement to resolve issues, from tomorrow onwards, we have submitted this amendment together. I mean intergroups.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u425	We will probably support this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u426	That's why I'm telling you. Let's turn it off as parentheses.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u427	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u428	You said something else about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u429	It is your ministerial decision, which Mr Famelos presented and tabled in the Minutes yesterday, and it concerns Mr Mitsotakis' post-mortem officials. I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u430	Oh, all right. Thank you very much. Mr. Bernardakis, would you like to say something about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u431	I don't want to talk. I just want to close the matter of the amendments, to say the last ones accepted. I mentioned Amendment No 265/35 earlier, but for some reason it was not recorded. Ministerial amendments 266/36, 267/37 and 268/38 are also accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u432	Are we closed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u434	For today and for this bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u435	Why so soon, Mr President? We still have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u436	Do we have your promise, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u437	I hope so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u438	"I think" now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u439	I hope so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u440	'I hope'? Even better. Is Mr. Kumoucascus here? Oh, no. Mr. Dimitriadis is not here too. Mr Theocharis and then Mr Theocharopoulos have the floor. Mr Theocharis will speak just as a speaker. He'll make use of the five-five very strict. In view of the Court, hold for there....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u441	Others, Mr President, were tolerant. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u442	In view of the Court's view, hold for there your mood to tell everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u443	I'll see you at the conference. It's not for the House. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek public administration is in need of deep areas. At least that's what we agree on. Just a few days ago the World Bank's report on Greek justice ranked our country as the fourth worst of the forty-seven OECD countries, with four hundred thousands of pending cases, a thousand five hundred eighty days on average so that a case can be dealt with. The parties have eroded the public administration. You, well or bad, continue the same and worse. Mr. Koutsoukos mentioned earlier Mr. Venizelos and the 1911 revolution with the Constitution which established some form of independence in public administration and stopped Klathmonos Square. If we read Venizelos’ talks from that time, the same problems describe what we are experiencing even today. The Venizelos revolution must finally be completed. No party redundancies, no party recruitments, no party administrations. Taxes will not be shortened as long as the public costs expensive. The public will not cost any less than the reformists tell you, as much as the 'particles' - in common as they do - are doing. The size of the public is maintained by the party armies. We need reform. But what constitutes reform? It should respond to the problems in a radical and innovative way, particularly when these problems have shaken our country for decades. The explanatory statement describes the pathogenesities of the Greek public administration, according to reports by ‘62 and '64. It is, of course, regrettable that it is still timely texts written fifty-five years ago, but, as we have seen, the same goes for a hundred years: the presence of political leadership, anxieties, centralisation, bureaucracy, and the absence of human resources. None of this solves. You bring a bill that you put first, reasonable year, beyond any sense of worthiness, that is to say you add claws. Secondly, you are introducing problematic criteria, and thirdly, you are doing so late to have time to put your own people in order that these claws will not allow these people to leave even when you are gone. Let us also see the only point that you want to be described as an innovation, which is the Register of Officials. It is interesting that you create a tank of high-qualified people and that you theoretically limit the margin of error. It would be nice to see in what other country there is such an Executive Register and to tell us where it is and what it serves. Also, what is the problem he solves? One should explain to us what the problem was, which without the Staff Register we could not solve. We put qualifications in each position accordingly - do you want us to put minimum qualifications? -, select the person and place it in position. What else does he need? So it remains to be seen how this will be implemented. We have heard that the Minister wants to make the implementation faster, but it is bad for the public administration. But we do not understand why it cannot be piloted. If he wants to apply it, apply it directly from now on. The exceptions are, of course, infinite. Reported. Lightning. Somewhere the reformist character of this bill is exhausted. Our other provisions return to tested return in the past. You abolished Mr. 4024 and you're back in the yearbook, as I said. Restore things to the earlier situation, graduation with years and formal qualifications and nothing else. A theoretical system based on formal qualifications and general concepts, such as efficiency, service relations and behaviour. No innovation. Nothing in the bill suggests even that there is in the government's thought planning of efficiency and position. The Minister spoke of the need for organograms. However, we did not see this need translated into an innovation at all: the possibility for the Secretary-General to change the establishment plans, since they do not cause additional costs. On the other hand, we have the new terms, such as 'demands of addresses and divisions', and I wonder if you are committed to colonization and deculturalisation. Is that what you're doing? In other words, we see five members and fifteen members of schools. The evaluation still doesn't lead anywhere. I shall conclude, Mr President. What if an employee is judged to be inadequate? The Head proposes improvement measures. Enter the structured interview in Article 29 and we have our reservations, as we have not seen this interview being properly used. Your own scripts are not encouraging. Ladies and gentlemen, I have experience of commanding the Greek public. So I say to you that the problem of Greek public administration is first of all an organisational and institutional problem and not a lack of human resources, which is very well-qualified. However, generations of heads of responsibility and disarmament have been nurtured against the subordinates.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u444	Mr. Theochari, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u445	I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, people in the public sector are treated as simple workers' hands and their qualifications are used only for the period of crises and as a way of increasing the molecules they will get. In all these pathogens, unfortunately, you do not give a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u446	Thank you. I also welcome the dear Mrs Chrysovelonis to the government's seat. Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u447	Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start really from the refugee question, because today shows that it is not just a crucial issue, but a slow bomb for both Europe and our country. Unfortunately, there are extreme voices in the European Union. Europe has not realised that this is a matter on which the foundations of the European construction are based. Several European Union countries want closed borders. There is a question from some countries in relation to Schengen. We firmly say that more Schengen is needed and not less Schengen. We have a responsibility here for the Democratic Reconciliation. We have tabled proposals at all levels, in the European Union, in our country with continuous meetings and we have called for national conciliation. We have also called for a meeting of the Political Heads of State or Government. I hope that the Council of Political Heads will be appointed, and this time we will all sign the joint communiqué on the refugee issue, because last time the New Democracy did not sign it. It is, then, a national issue. The Greek Government has made many mistakes. There's been sloppy, delusional, delays for a very long time. Right now the whole country has turned into a hotspot. We really have a humanitarian crisis, and now, ladies and gentlemen, we see what a humanitarian crisis is. Because it is another thing to have a deep economic crisis and another to have a really humanitarian crisis, and above all we need to show our humanism and deal with it with a national line. Before I say a few things about the bill - and we have said them in the first place yesterday - I would like to highlight a number of issues which have been raised. I have heard the Minister for the Interior, Mr Kurubli. He came here and with a very aggressive style to the Vice-Population MPs, stressing "you will sit very much in the Opposition, as happened in 1981".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u448	Well, of course he knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u449	Dear Members, friends and friends of SYRIZA, do you agree with this position of your Minister? Is that SYRIZA's perception? It's possible that this particular report was also relevant to you. It doesn't explain any other way. It's an arrogant attitude. Mr Vernardakis, because you know well from polls, you should know and know the government - and it also helps the Interior Minister - that society is now at another stage and society is at the moment trying to find solutions and is disappointed. So we tell you that in any case there will be a progressive solution. There is a progressive solution for society. The progressive citizens of our country will not be locked up. The Democratic Reconciliation is trying on all issues to have progressive proposals, with a view to social cohesion, aimed at growth, which takes into account the private economy, but with principles of competition, not stateism and, of course, not populism. And I'm talking about populism, no matter where it comes, because we've lived and lived. Recently, farmers, another social class on the streets today and problems are being created, saw the Prime Minister and saw some of the measures being, for example, the creation of cost-books, proposed by the Prime Minister, so that the problem can be resolved. Really? Expenses books, which are a motto and in which you have been against all the previous years, have you now proposed to the sixteenth measure from the twenty-fifth measure to the farmers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u450	Is that what you understand? You must stand up, but not that thing! For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u451	Here, then, we need seriousness. So let's go to today, ladies and gentlemen. You have tabled amendments. You have tabled many amendments by ministerial and I told you first - first of all - that it is a good fact that you have accepted amendments to the opposition parties, and most of the ministers have not done so in the past. This is one of the facts that we have said is positive. But I want to tell you about two - three things. Mr Stathakis, Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, tabled an amendment to the EOT. And an amendment to the NSA was tabled. Both amendments exclude these agencies from the register. In fact, we asked for amendments to be tabled to support them. The Minister of Justice in a previous bill had done so. Any minister who had not come to support the amendment had not accepted it. Now you have not done it. These amendments did not come to support them. I'll tell you later about the record. So I say to you this: and while you bring this particular arrangement, there are already exceptions. There are already. Today, we haven't voted for it yet, and the exceptions are coming. In fact, there are exceptions coming, so listen to what arguments! For example, the explanatory statement on private administrative methods - which is necessary for this reason - relates to the EOT. But that is exactly why we told you that private staff should also enter, the private sector should also enter and not just be a public issue. The public interest does not mean that the private sector is excluded. And so, of course, this matter would have been resolved. There is an amendment to education, in relation to the number of courses under consideration, and we have a national dialogue on education. While, at the moment, we have a dialogue on education, there are lessons from six to four, and what is being done at the expense of students, with ongoing and sudden changes. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law, despite some positive provisions which remain fragmentary, does not seem to be in line with its intentions, at least as they have described in the explanatory statement. In many cases, its provisions are at least contemplating the principles of law invoked, while at the same time conflicting with a number of other legislation. Today I will just say one example, as we analysed a lot on yesterday's register. The explanatory statement mentions the formulation and operation of a multi-accessible system. As the Parliament's Scientific Service observes, for reasons of equal treatment, it should be accepted that all officials - officials, researchers, scientists - of the State with the qualifications required, even those who are subject to a special regime and are excluded from the evaluation system introduced by the draft legislation, must have the opportunity to claim the service, the central administration and the wider public sector. In addition, it shall be specified that they may be entered in the register, by way of derogation from the specific conditions laid down for regular civil servants, the scientific staff of the independent authorities. How this derogation is substantiated, we did not hear it. While the scientific staff of the independent authorities are integrated, other special scientific staff serving the public are excluded, creating constitutional concerns, as no justification is given for this more favourable treatment. How is this more favourable treatment documented? We didn't see it. Discrimination shall also be treated as special scientific staff serving in the public sector against the relevant administrative staff. In particular, the Scientific Service of the Parliament observes that accepting that workers in public posts are, indiscriminately, included under the same conditions in the register, whether they belong to the administrative or scientific staff, do not comply with the Constitution, not only with the type and number of qualifications in education and training, but also with the nature and nature of the responsibilities assigned to them. We are talking about specific problems, about specific issues that we have raised to you. I have asked you, in fact, a question for a legislative improvement that you have brought in the case of the consolidation of the above positions in the register that you are exempting and saying with the old provisions on which they have not been made. I told you that that's why there's no other explanation. Do not escape you and there is dignity. There's no other explanation. So I asked you here to put yourself here, say clearly why you refer it back to the future and we had no answer. Let me not talk about Article 32, which we have asked to withdraw, which gives arbitrary superpowers to move and derogate from existing provisions and which you have told us you will bring it back to the Mobility Legislation in the next period. Now that we're talking about it: Now are you in favour of mobility? Because in 2012 I remember supporting protests against mobility. And since you have referred, dear Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, let me tell you this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u452	Mr. Theocharopoulos, dear you too, but you have spoken nine minutes and fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u453	I shall conclude, Mr President. I want to say one final sentence. Unfortunately, we have ideological obsessions of the New Democracy for redundancies and evaluation rates of 60-30-10 predetermined, which Mr Mitsotakis wanted to pass. On the other hand, we have delusional SYRIZA, which does not lead anywhere on all these issues, for an assessment which does not go any further in the way it should go. Citizens will not be locked up, there is a progressive solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u455	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u456	What do you want, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u457	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u458	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u459	Because there has been a reference to my name by Mr Igoumenidis, with the expressions of enthusiasm and I would like the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u460	What did he say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u461	He referred to my face as a 'fascist' and I would like to explain two things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u462	No, you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u463	Didn't I get it? There is also an article on which I have referred to'snake egg', that I wear'mask', 'the fascist tendencies I have', on the basis of what I have said, and I would like to refer to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u464	Here, you have the floor to clarify things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u465	First of all, I must say that I am am surprised to hear this from Mr Igoumenides, because he is a scientist and a man I respect. I did not mention, in principle, personal words on his name. Is that right? That's the first thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u466	When you talk about cosa nostra...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u467	The second thing I want to say is that I want to make something clear. In no case do we welcome any form of violence towards any colleague, independently. As far as the part of fascism is concerned, it is all I will agree with Mr Igoumenides's words. Yesterday, Mr. Kaklamanis was simply chaired by Mr. Kaklamanis, who said that no such violent ideas are acceptable, but from now on we should go to the point. Fascism is when we're talking about real events that I made a reference to? I said we went to the roadblocks. We were warmly welcomed by the farmers and I made a reference, unlike some colleagues who do not receive them that way. And all I said was that I was there. For example, yesterday in Crete, what happened? Do you deny, Mr. Igoumenides, that they attacked you? I do not welcome it, in any case, and I say it publicly at the moment, so that I can be clear in any case. I condemn this. And I barely saw the roadblocks we went to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u468	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u469	Give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u470	They didn't attack a roadblock. They attacked a block outside a private station set up and a small relationship with farmers. It's not a roadblock. Is that right? Hold on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u471	We're hanging on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u472	Three weeks you hold on, but you remember some things that you might have to explain at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u473	Others need to explain this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u474	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but to strengthen this argument already...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u475	When you're done, I'll tell my colleagues something, because it's good...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u476	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u477	You'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u478	What I am going to say now, I would like not to be recorded in the Minutes. I'm saying this clearly so I don't think I'm provoking. Yesterday I said that I do not want to mention what the farmers said, because the farmers said in word...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u479	Mr. Fisherman, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u480	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u481	Mr. President, may I finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u482	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u483	What the farmers have said - and I say again not to be written in the Minutes - was '...'. I didn't report any of this. I'm saying that to strengthen it. I should like to explain, on the basis of Babiniotis, what fascism means, because such expressions cannot be said specifically within Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u484	Thank you very much. Staff's over. You have analysed for the second time your point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u485	I would ask for these expressions to be withdrawn by Mr Igoumenides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u486	Yeah, all right, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u487	And as far as I was ironic and said to wear masks, I don't think that's something we need to talk about right now. It does not cause or is fascist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u488	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u489	I condemn the violence, and I say it publicly at the moment. We're not talking about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u490	All right, but if you'll excuse me, Mr. Georgiades, because you've already explained, please, the impression of speaking from a microphone must have its limits, because if a farmer or anyone who says "I'll hang you back to the Constitution" and that's what we come and transmit it, without our opinion, which we can clarify the next day from a microphone. He wants to restrain it, and you understand it. You're a smart man. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u491	I understand that, and that is why I am not saying exactly what was said by the farmers. And in respect of the person of my colleague, I did not say that this colleague is about what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u492	This has been clarified. Mr. Igoumenides, you wanted to say something. You have the floor for very little, though, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u493	I read to you: 'There is also a video of how farmers treated us in Evros and how they treated your colleague - addressing SYRIZA MPs - who went out on the TV CRIZA'. If it wasn't for me, who did you refer to?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u494	Is that fascist?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u495	We have made it clear about fascist and violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u496	No, they didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u497	You don't have to go in here. It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u498	Mr. Amyras, and you're very impressive on a microphone, don't be underneath it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u499	I, Mr President, raised a point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u500	Go on, Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u501	Apart from the fact that, in my opinion, he should have done, as he personally should, to withdraw Mr Georgiadis, he spoke and thus placed himself with the SYRIZA MPs as a representative of the Union of Centres. So to avoid calling them so-called central, I expect the party leader, the party's representative, to withdraw. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u502	As to what? There's nothing personal to withdraw someone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u503	Mr. Igoumenidis, when the party leader is missing, the parliamentary representative represents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u504	He recalled personally, he did not withdraw as a party's representative. I mean it in that sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u505	You guys need to call the hybrid expressions to my face.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u506	Okay. Don't bother the stenographers, because they don't hear that. Mr. Georgiadis, please. Mr. Kegeroglu, calm and nice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u507	Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u508	You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the last ones. I fully agree with you that all the political world must condemn both pre-conflicts and concentrations and all that is being done at the expense of MPs and other political people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u510	From the old days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u511	You're a lawyer, too? And I take the President's admonition as a statement with retroactive effect, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u512	I'll tell you something when you finish your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u513	Whenever you want, you're interrupting. There's no problem. I take it as a statement with retroactive effect 'if it had not been made by you'. Because, well or badly, many members of your party had previously been involved, if not as protagonists, with other qualities. I will only tell you that - something that has been judged and judged in court - the 'Austria' in Rethymnon by Mr Otto, who went to court, was a member of the SYRIZA Coordinating Committee in Rethymnon, and when the trial took place, Mr. Kritsotakis went to court to defend it. I therefore find today's intervention very positive and certainly concerns all the previous periods. Dialogue, political controversy, composition, particularly in the critical period that we are going through, is the only way to solve and deal with the problems. Acidification, polarization, barren confrontation do not bring any effect. That is why we, and as a basic political line this period, have the national consensus, neither the authoritarianism that leads to unilateral governmental solutions, nor the hasty solutions they hear in the name of 'elections'. A national understanding, beyond the issue of government and cooperation and everything else. That's another matter. Those who want to promote the necessary line for national consultation are immediately referring to conflict issues. That's what the country needs. That is what we need to see in Parliament too. I mentioned the example yesterday of Friday and Saturday for the parallel programme. In a persistent way, indeed, I had spoken about the issue of uninsured persons in the insurance funds, but they have lost the insurance capacity. I was not heard by the Ministry on Friday, Saturday or by any colleague. And the Ministry of Labour was forced to bring an amendment today. It has now introduced an amendment to extend the validity of Law 4254 on the insurers of all the funds and has justified us, after three days, for this perseverance. Why is this dialogue, this composition, not on time, based on the proposal we have made, persistently? This is a small example. I will say that the Minister has accepted proposals today, in this debate, and showed examples of different behaviour. However, amendments, which are more than the number of articles, have infringed provisions that have absolutely irrelevant content from the bill and this leads to an attempted reform of devaluation. Unfortunately, the attempted reform is underestimated by the very process of discussing and setting up this bill. So I say that, on the basis of experience and tradition, if you want - and our long-term tradition of reforms in this place - not only for the SAP that has been heard, not only for the "DENMARK" we have spoken about, the independent authorities, not only for the changes that have to do with the establishment of regional government in Greece, in many areas, but also for the many mistakes, for which I have spoken, of all the governments, from Kapodistria to this day, who have not really allowed the system of assessment and selection of management members in a similar manner, such as this SAP. Great reform would be if this whole system were integrated into the AACC. It does not, unfortunately. Not only does it not come under control, but it is also being transferred to the future for 2018. It may be right, I don't know, but it comes immediately into a system and brings exceptions to an EOT, EIF, to the Directorate-General for Coordination. It is another thing - it says - the Directorate-General for Coordination has particular features. What exactly does he have and we don't know? And immediately overthrows this whole story. So, by completing my post, I would like to say about the Staff Register. Some things have been said. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A few seconds, Mr. President. We'll start - the Minister says - from our house. We're just gonna go public alone. And there was a bombing of complaints about the market. But now the general secretaries are from the market. Let's start, he says, from our house. So, the citizens have nothing to do with the public? Does public citizens, private individuals, not view them as public servants? Is the eye different? To conclude by saying that it has information in its assessment, which, unfortunately, are contradictory. One comment: you say, Mr Minister - I would like a little attention - that those who have been attending seminars of the EMCDDA and the Institute are getting some moleculosis. Very well. Teachers - to see the contradictions - who teach them the lessons and the seminars take no molecules, like teachers who teach at the National School of Public Administration. They don't get any molecule. Students take. If, then, that thing that you say rational and meritful, believe it. I close with Article 39, which restores a great injustice we have fought for here, since the President of the Republic, Mr Pavlopoulou, was at the Ministry - I do not know what they called it at the time - Administrative Reform to date. And it is to the credit of the Minister who has agreed to restore this matter. Note only, Minister, because it may be involved, to see the adoption of the ministerial decision provided for in cooperation with the AACC, so that it is compatible with what needs to be implemented. Thank you, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u514	Mr Kegeroglu, I am not talking about you at all, who have in fact been calm and experienced, and on the substance of the matter. I am, however, obliged to say something about a number of events, which have happened in recent weeks at the offices of the SYRIZA party and SYRIZA officials in many cities in Greece, usually at 20.00 hours an hour. I want to say straight - because many of us both in 11 and 12, in '13 we were here and out of here, and we know very well and have no discernment in the facts - that in events that occurred in previous times in relation to other parties, with their offices, their executives and so on, there was a very clearly deterrent, denouncing and refined by all the media at that time, if you remember, sometimes - but that is no problem when it comes to acts of violence - over and above. While there is a warning, qualitative difference, that these weeks there is an open inducement, without cooling, without tolerance, in what is being done in these offices and in these attacks that are being carried out by executives and by the SYRIZA party. The fact that there have been no responses and there have been no incidents, it is obvious that it is because of a temptation that has been demonstrated by all sides or even by the resilience of the leaderships of the political forces or by luck. However, this situation cannot continue and there are talks here that equate situations, which are qualitative - I repeat - differently, because the deterrent from the deterrent...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u515	Mr. Katrugalos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u516	Please, Mr. Constantinople. I'm talking about the channels. Why are you taking the floor? Do you understand? Do you understand what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u517	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u518	Mr. Constantinople, do you know what I'm saying? Understood? Are you watching three weeks of channels watching and urging violence?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u519	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u520	You obviously have nothing to do with it. Why did you happen? Understand? Well, because we shouldn't equate situations... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Thank you so much! Every one of us takes his responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u521	Mr President, just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u522	We remember the hangs...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u523	Don't get so uproared!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u524	Mr President, just a word. I, as Secretary of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, remember that there was not a single complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u525	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u526	There was not a single complaint or a statement from SYRIZA when I was prejudiced by the Golden Dawn here, in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u527	It's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u528	Easy, Mr. Fisherman, ladies and gentlemen! I assume, from what they have exchanged now, even warmly, that you fully accept that there is a qualitative difference in the deterrent and dissuasive speech from the image, communication and channels. That's all I've been talking about. Let go of the rest. What each political force said at that time came one, two and three times to the people and was valued and you know it very well. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for two minutes as a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u529	Mr President, I will only say one word following on from what you said, and I will end. The Prime Minister's statement, which has been made, that we will not be able to get out of our homes - and I close this issue - was a statement by Mr Tsipras. As for Mr. Katrugalo, take the video, see what he said to Mr. Pretenderis. Mr Skourletis, you have tabled an amendment on 217/2 and I will ask you not only for our own but also for Syriza, for the lignite regions, for Kosani, for Arcadia and for Florina. You have tabled - and I hope you will - an acceptable system for the allocation of revenues from the auctions of unsold greenhouse gas emission allowances for the period 2016-2020. As you know, Minister, in the coming years most of the lignite power, in line with the country's commitments, will be reduced. I mean, in my area, in Megalopoli, two lignite stations of 600 megawatts will be closed. You understand that these changes will affect the economic life of the place and, as your executives and SYRIZA Members have said, they will have to find compensatory benefits. Through this process, as has been done in many European countries, and the mayors have told you today - and the mayors are not Kosani or Anti-Population - there are proposals and they are compatible with the Community directive. So a small percentage will go to these regions, which will have a great deal of unemployment to deal with, so that there will be a plan for employment. Minister, we are not asking for 20%, because I understand that 20% is a very large percentage. The mayors told you today - and we told fellow Members and SYRIZA and the New Democracy we met last week - that it could be 5% and 6% and 7% and 8%. Unfortunately, however, the Minister - and we were informed by the mayors - said at first that it is not compatible with Community legislation, while it is compatible, did not accept this proposal. I ask SYRIZA's colleagues from these regions: All that you have been saying for years about compensatory benefits, for the post-liberal era, were they lying? What are you going to do against what the Minister does not accept? Minister, even at the last minute, I ask you to accept a small percentage as a compensatory benefit for these regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u530	Thank you. Mr. Skourletis, he begged you, even at the last minute, to be done. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u531	All that we have been saying in these years about the need to have policies and plans so that in the regions concerned, which have been environmentally burdened as far as they are not said, they apply. But look, it's completely different to come a proposal, with the 20% rate you confessed a moment ago and you're too big...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u532	The mayors are asking you for 5% and 6%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u533	Wait a minute. Don't specify where that money's going. Is this money going to the municipalities? I spoke not only today but at times with the mayors and told them that what must be done is to go towards concrete actions that are permissible and compatible with European legislation. Such design has not been submitted. On the contrary, I told them that we need to study - and I have given a corresponding mandate to PPC's administration - to look at the issue of the special tariff for the region, which can act in a very catalyst of development. A special tariff with large discounts in productive activities in the region. As far as this proposal is concerned, I would say that part of it can be incorporated through the proposal that we have made to set up the special fund for energy savings, where we can see a special planning for these areas. The mayors accepted this and said on 8 or 9 April - if I am not mistaken - that is to be held by the Municipality of Kosanis, until then with concrete proposals. But proposals that are not designed to just throw them away, I don't think they can be the last minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u534	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u535	That's what we've said, that's what we're saying and that's what we want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u536	Well, the explanations have been given. Ladies and gentlemen, the circle of parliamentary representatives has also been closed. The whole list of speakers has been closed, except Mr Gregos, if I'm not mistaken. Mr Grego, if you will, speak, so that only the speeches of the Heads of State or Government will then be left - and we will start by the Prime Minister - have asked to speak and then the meeting will be closed. Mr. Gregus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr President. Because we are talking about violence and, above all, selective violence, I want to denounce another murderous attack against our party's regional advisor this time on Volos. The aim was also the Member of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou, and of course there was still no arrest, no induction and no punishment. Minister - you are here - finally something has to be done! We, who have the great honour of being in the ranks of Golden Dawn, declare that these murderous attacks are not going to stop us. I demand - and you are all here, both the ministers and all the Members - that you condemn this act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u538	Thank you, Mr Grego.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u539	Mr President, this is the second time in a week of murder.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u540	You're talking outside of a microphone. If you want to be noted in the Minutes, please note. It's a given one and it doesn't have to be repeated. Like all acts of violence, they are condemned. Please, the floor is given by Prime Minister Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u541	Ladies and gentlemen, I am, unfortunately, forced for another sitting to begin my speech, not on the subject of discussion but on the big subject of the juncture, the big issue of days, which is no more than the refugee crisis and the difficulties, the failure to manage this crisis from the whole of Europe, from the European Union. Because we have to admit that Europe's management of the crisis is frustrating so far, and it seems clear that some do not understand that our common rules either apply to all or there are no rules. Some people do not understand that our common agreements are respected by everyone or that there are no agreements. We cannot forget - no one in Europe can forget and no one in Greece can forget - that Greece in the summer was in the passage, in the name of the common rules and in the name of the principle that agreements must be respected. We cannot forget what we have been constantly repeated - pacta sunt servanda - and suddenly today it is shown that the pressure for implementing the agreed rules is, rather, not all of them. In my view - and I shall say this directly - something even worse has happened - and it is shameful for the functioning of Europe - that the leaders at the summits and later that these decisions are annulled by the decisions of some kind of clashes or agreements between the police chiefs of the police, only some states, not only of the European Union but also of non-Member States of the European Union on the Balkan route. Like also, I cannot comment on the fact that it is unacceptable on the part of a country with a long history in the Union, Austria, to convene complaints about the refugee problem without the participation of the directly concerned countries, a matter which, if anything, may be different, but it is a common confession that it cannot be resolved without the greatest possible agreement, the maximum possible consensus and cooperation between the Member States of the Union and, in particular, those directly concerned. I would therefore like to speak not in a tough language but in a language that is responsible, as he would say - I imagine - every European politician or Head of State, who respects the European process and the sovereign rights of his country. I would like to say that Greece can only demand from now on that our partners behave responsibly, just as we, in a crisis which has loaded a much greater burden on a small country than it is on it. We must therefore urgently demand that all those agreed to be implemented, without further time-lag and without derogations, be implemented. From now on, two standards cannot be accepted. We will either be in a Union with common rules for everyone, which we will all observe, or everyone will do their heads, without regard to the consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not prepared to tolerate the second possibility. I want to make it clear today from the Step forward of this House that Greece will not consent from now on to agreements unless compulsory burden-sharing and liability in the Member States are guaranteed proportionately. From our side, there is no doubt that we have done and will do everything in our power to give substantial help, warmth, humanity, security, to hunted and outdated people. And we will be the first to implement our commitments both to human values and to refugees and to our partners. What we are not going to do, however, is accept the conversion of our country into a permanent warehouse of souls and, at the same time, continue in Europe and at the summits as if nothing were happening. We are therefore not going to tolerate the fact that a number of countries not only will build fences and walls at the border, but at the same time they will not accept to host a single refugee, they will not accept to share the burden. We are not going to allow this to continue. And, of course, before leaving for the special summit on 7 March, I will call for the meeting of the Political Heads of State and other political leaders to be convened, in order to achieve the maximum possible consensus and convergence with regard to the country's position at the summit. And, of course, at this meeting, under the President of the Republic, I am going to ask that we agree together, Greece at the summit to require a decision on compulsory proportional participation in the relocation and resettling of refugees from all the countries of the Union. If some people think they can lift up fences and throw all the weight into a country, because their geographical position has led it to an objective weakness, to know that this is not tolerable and that Greece will react. I think that this is the only way, of course, and alliances - because there are a number of countries, we are not isolated, forces and governments that stand up to this fair demand - not only to avoid unpleasant developments for Greece but also unpleasant developments for Europe, to avoid Europe returning to dark times, which we thought have passed. Because you know, xenophobia, racism, fences, the rise of neo-nazis and the populist extreme right is a reality in Europe that premises developments that are under way, unpleasant for the future. And we cannot ignore the fact that this darkness is coming from the European North and from the European Centre, both to the South and to our country. We must, I believe, all those of us who recognise the need to defend democratic values and ideals, fight to stop this friction and throw light on the darkness that some are going to create. I cannot, ladies and gentlemen, refer to a creepy event that took place by some sick brains, imitators of Ku Klux Klan, who made the most of the actions at the Refugee Resettlement Centre set up in Shhsto, and even in the name of Christian ideals. They put next to this horrific symbol, the cut-head pig, the cross. Foolish and sad people are invoking religion and homeland, and I invite you to condemn them because they are not entitled to invoke either religion or homeland! For the core of Christianity is love for the fellow man, and homeland is a country, which has suffered from refugee, from immigration and knows from uprooting, and we will not allow it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But we will have the opportunity to discuss the next period, and as I said last Saturday, I am at the disposal of the Political Heads of State or Government for continuous information. I've already talked to Mr. Mitsotakis and Mrs. Genemas. I'm also at the disposal of the other leaders in order to inform them. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that in this climate of the generalised pan-European crisis and the threat to border controls and border walls between the Member States of the European Union, the country has to deal with the consequences of the economic crisis and the great struggle and difficulties of getting out of these deadlocks, concluding a difficult agreement. I would therefore like to make it clear from the outset that I fully respect and defend the right of all citizens to defend and claim rights. Today I was informed of an intervention by the Prosecutor's Prosecutor. I fully respect it, because it obviously had a unique concern to respect legality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u542	Ice Bay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u543	The Attorney of the Ice Bay, excuse me, Mrs. Koutjamani. Obviously, its motives were to maintain legality, there is no doubt. However, when we are dealing with the mobilisations of a social group, which feels that it must claim its rights, we must be careful. I am in favour of the view that with the persuasion that comes through dialogue, we can solve the problems. However, I cannot comment on the fact that, when some threaten us, moving the finger to limit the flows of refugees, creating a crowded border at our northern borders and closing borders, this cannot be done in the name of anyone, the best possible, the cleaner and more ethical claim, to do so on our own. And I am referring to the closure of the border in Promachona. I firmly believe that struggles, which may work, are the struggles that are not directed against the whole of society and the country, but take together the social group and defend the patriotic interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u544	You're the first to teach.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u545	Please, no comments, Mr. Cryazides. Hold on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u546	Therefore, I can only appeal to the continuation of dialogue to find solutions, but also to the effort to have forms of action that are not directed against the country and the social whole. As I spoke about the need to continue dialogue with mobilised farmers, let me say on the substance of the matter, informing the National Representation, that it was conducted with a part of the mobilised farmers once, I would like to believe, a substantial debate, which must be essential, I repeat, and not parallel monologues. Because the aim of all of us must be to find fair and practicable solutions and not to play political games. In my previous meeting with farmers' representatives, I told them that they really have fair reasons to fight and claim, and that this anguish I honestly share with them, because the country's main problem is the destruction of the national wealth that occurred in the years 2010-2015, where we lost 25% of national wealth and of EUR 245 billion of GDP, we went to EUR 175 billion of GDP. Seventy billion less produces the country. If this treaty is not overturned, unless we relaunch the economy, unless we mobilise production, bad lies, we do not come out of the crisis, we will not be able to increase either wages, pensions, nor recover. That is the only truth we will all agree on. For this reason, I believe that the agricultural sector is, and should be, a priority, an important pillar of the effort to rebuild production. But it is not just the mobilisation of production as a priority. At the same time, a fair distribution of burdens must also be made. This is a precondition not only for promoting equality, but also for mobilising the economy. I would therefore really like to invite you to see with them those tables on the income declared on the basis of the statements made by the farmers themselves, on the basis of which they are taxed. There we will find something extremely unpleasant that the vast majority of the agricultural world, those who say income from agricultural activities, are at very, very, very low levels. Almost half of them, just over half of them, 54%, make statements of up to 5 000 euros a year, 92% to 10,000 euros, 95% to 16 000, 96.67% to 20,000 euros. I have therefore tabled a number of proposals to farmers, twenty-five of which concern the substance of the reintroduction of production and the aid they need to reintroduce production, the aid they need, but also the aid they need, which makes them agonist, makes them on the road, i.e. the shrinking of their income, the anguish that the combination of insurance and taxation will bring about further reductions in income. I have tabled a proposal for them to deal in a fair way with the economic sluggishness and the combination of insurance and taxation not to be burdened, but to reduce the large majority of farmers, namely those with incomes of less than EUR 20 000 per year. So I asked the representatives whether this proposal would satisfy them if they were to see it positive. It is a proposal which, for example, I will tell you that for almost half of the farmers who have an income of EUR 5,000, they are almost half the burdens they have given to date, not of what they would have given on the basis of the agreement, in combination with tax and insurance, for those who have up to EUR 10 000, EUR 1 000 less a year, for those who have an income of EUR 15 000, almost EUR 300 less weight. Do you know what they said to me? Half my men answered in the affirmative. The other half were not satisfied. Then I asked one of them randomly: "What is the annual income you declare?" He answered 50,000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make something clear and say truths. We cannot protect 5% of the rural world. We will protect 90% of the agricultural world, but not 5%, 6% and 7%. Those with such incomes cannot be protected. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's say truths at last! And the large majority on the roadblocks has 5 000 euros, 6 000 euros, 7 000 euros, 10,000 euros. They have neither EUR 20,000, nor EUR 30,000, nor EUR 40,000. But he needs to know the truth, who we're fighting for and who we're fighting for. And when they asked for a break to bring us alternative proposals, I returned to the Chamber by tabling the alternative proposal, with regard to the possibility of a tax on EUR 12 000 on income plus EUR 12 000 on subsidies, i.e. EUR 24 000 on tax. We cannot, ladies and gentlemen, talk about these figures, about no one, even the farmers who have to support them. But to support the great mass, which needs to be supported, and not some people who are going to the media with 80 000 euros, 90,000 euros, 100,000 euros. But it is a minority of the rural world. That is why I am going to meet farmers again tomorrow on the road to Nice, which I know from the racing route of some of them, which I respect, that their concern is small and medium-sized farms and not big incomes. And I hope at least that we find solutions in this respect, because on other issues we have great disagreements and are well-known. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to leave the tension that has been created, but the fact that, while the vast majority of farmers are struggling with fair demands, a very small minority is making representations, inviting the cameras with some twenty-three people to Members of the SYRIZA. I want to tell them it's not efficient and it's for free trouble. Why? Because SYRIZA MPs are neither professional politicians, nor career-makers, nor lame, nor will they ever accept or accept threats and blackmails. They've come out of the people and fight for the people. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And since I spoke about threats and blackmail, I cannot help but mention the fact that something has started and moves in terms of this rotten system and many have begun to fear. I would therefore like to congratulate the Greek police on the dismantling of a network of cynical blackmailers who managed and distribute state money and advertising. And I want to repeat something that I have said many times in this Chamber: the system of corruption of blackmailers and interlocutory will be ripped out by the efforts of this government! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I apologise, but there are so many issues that, in such a critical bill of law, I have exhausted much of my time in refugee. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the debate has been largely exhausted in both committees and in plenary. You all know very well that public administration is - it has been said many times - the "great patient" in our country. The malfunctions are, of course, heavy on this political establishment that has created these malfunctions. But all of us are concerned with these malfunctions. I'm talking about tax administration malfunctions, I'm talking about bureaucracy, dashing procedures, customer relations. All of this together, they have created an image of dissolution and have failed to allow relations of trust between citizens and public authorities to be built up. So today we are starting administrative reform with a bill - cutoff, which despite the great announcements many times by reasonable modernists in this Chamber has never been daring. It is an incision, so that the Greek state can finally stand on its feet, away from the practices that we have all experienced in the past. For this reason, the National Register of Public Administration Officers is set up. In fact, its members will command all the state's duties. The institution of the Administrative Secretary-General is therefore introduced. It's a radical act. It is foreseen that the members of the administrations of all legal persons of the public come mainly from the register. There will be an institutional memory now in every ministry, which is happening in several countries of the European Union but, unfortunately, not in our country. A new system of evaluation of public administration is being introduced, which is aimed at improving the administrative services provided for the benefit of the citizen. It also introduces an entirely objective and merital system of selection of heads at all levels of public administration. It is a choice resulting from a balanced system of mobilisation of officials between formal qualifications, pre-services, evaluation and an interview procedure. A new rating of civil servants, which is disconnected from the salary and linked to the evaluation in a positive way, is established. The National Centre for Public Administration, which has a role to play in the monitoring of public administration, is being upgraded. This bill - it is not an exaggeration to say and I will say it - is part of the history of post-multi-population in terms of state, public administration. We are creating a separating line with past client-private practices and separating lines with those practices which have led to the tight embrace of the political system in the public administration and have, of course, erupted a massive number of phenomena of maladministration and corruption. We are creating a dividing line in the logic of the best farmers, in the logic of customer relations and those who used to make the state of the customer and, of course, in the logic of the systems of state power with the systems of 4-2-1 and so forth. Our goal is to bring ASP everywhere, in every place. And really today I am surprised to see that, at such a critical bill, at such a critical moment for the country, of course, at a critical meeting, but also at a crucial bill, which concerns the portfolio that it had as Minister in the previous government, Mr Mitsotakis is not here. He does not even come to Parliament to tell us his positions, to place himself, to say what his vision is of modernization, to say what he did as Minister, what happens now, if he votes, why he will not vote on the articles that he does not want to vote on. It's missing. I have so far become accustomed to seeing the Prime Ministers absent so that they do not have any opposition and criticism in the House from the opposition. Now, the Chief of Antipopulation is absent! It's all right, it's a part of the time. Let him be absent. If he wants a parallel dialogue, all right, parallel dialogue. But I cannot help but mention this lyric effort, which has been made over the past few days and months, to show the most shitty attempt to put the state into partisanism by SYRIZA, and to mention the fact that we have the official information here. All this conversation about post-mortem officials. So who? The close colleagues, who are not civil servants. Here we are making a breakthrough for the evaluation of officials and for them to be hierarchically high in the public administration - even in the ministries - civil servants, and you are talking about the poster. So I come here with undeniable evidence. Where are you, Mr. Leventis, watching these. I don't know if he's here. And Mr. Leventis has work to do today? What's going on? Everybody's busy. Where is she, watching them and comparing them? In 2014, therefore, the cost to the State of post-mortem officials at the Government of Samaras is EUR 15,196,000. Now it's 10.850,000 euros. Reduction of annual costs by 28.6%. Please testify to the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] We also did not receive an answer either to what was this great modernist vision, which made Mr Mitsotakis as Minister of Administrative Reform to change - just before the political change that was coming and everyone saw it - the managers, dozens of directors overnight, with a signature, and not even how Mr Vernardakis is doing such a difficult job and bringing this reform, but having three post-calls and not fifty, as Mr Mitsotakis had, who never gave an answer to it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He's not here to answer us. Ladies and gentlemen, that's all right, though. It is obvious that the leadership of the New Democracy once again prefers to remain silent on a crucial issue, which concerns not only the past but also the future of the country. Because the structure of the state, the administration, is a crucial issue and a reform that many in Europe really expect years to see happening in Greece. In conclusion, however, I would like to refer to an issue which I would like to believe is not so easy for Mr Mitsotakis - despite the fact that he is absent today - to remain silent. A while ago I received a letter from my office. The Secretary-General of the Prime Minister is other than the Secretary-General of the Prime Minister at Maximos on the Government of Samaras and instructed the consul of Germany not to receive any material relating to tax fraud. These are the proofs, the official documents of the Greek state, referred to by Mr. Plexidas, Consul of our country in Germany at the time, saying that "from the office of Prime Minister then the Secretary-General answered me not to receive". Mr. Mitsotakis also officially came out the other day, but I'm guessing the New Democracy officially, and what did he say? He told us that the appeals of Mr Borgians to the Greek Consul and the ensuing appeals of the Greek Consul to the Director of the Office of the then Prime Minister, Mr. Bouras, were not related to any particular material, some cd, concerned know how, providing know-how. A little while ago, at 19:15, this afternoon, I received a letter from Mr Borgians at the Office in Maximou, who tells us - and it is clear - that he not only met and spoke to the Consul at the time, Mr. Plexidas, several times, but also very clearly, that he did not only offer him technical cooperation, but also help to process data at the time stored in cd. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mr. Plexidas, Consul at that time, he informed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u547	These are written, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u548	Don't fight! And written and oral! You will be given the opportunity to answer and apologise to the Greek people for the protection you have had so many years to those who are taxing! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So Mr. Plexidis informed the Taximo then and Maximo rejected the proposal. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that words are superfluous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u549	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u550	It is quite clear to you too, so you are reckless, what that means to us as is clear what that means, so we promise that there is no way we can just close this case! All in the light! Lies are over! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And if some people continue these days - because they are used to it, they have done the same to everyone - to threaten us, saying, "You are temporary", alas! Democrat, we have a democracy! We are all temporary in the Republic. All of us are judged in light and judged by the Greek people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We answer them that we know we're temporary and we're judged. It's time for you to know that the end of what you thought would be permanent, your immunity and your authority. It's over once and for all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u551	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u552	Let me tell you that the Chiefs are ahead of us. You will allow me, with all due respect, to give the floor to Mrs Générale. Then there's Mr. Theodorakis. Madame Genuine, as President of the Democratic Association, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u553	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u554	Mrs. Gate, wait a minute. Please, ladies and gentlemen, let us have a little quiet. Those who are to stay, stay quiet. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We can go on. Mrs. Birthday, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u555	Thank you, Mr President. We watched the Prime Minister speak for 40 minutes. I was really wondering why he came to the House today, until I saw the closure of his speech. It is clear that all that is of interest is to swing threatening papers to each other and poison the political life of the place. You demand the political life of the place at a critical moment for Greece, and if you really have the guts and the strength to close the stories with the past, you all come and sign the proposal for a PASOK committee of inquiry from 2000 until today, otherwise at last stop this poison. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Six years the Greek people have raised the cross of the testimony and are constantly listening to reports of ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u556	He falsified the text!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u557	Mrs. Bakoyannis, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u558	Isn't she ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u559	Mrs. Bakoyannis, that's not polite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u560	Mrs. Bakoyannis, if you like, when I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u561	Excuse me, Mrs. Genemas, but the Prime Minister falsified the text.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u562	Mrs. Bakoyannis is lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u563	After completing my place, settle your bills and differences, but not at the time I speak. Please. Please. So I said that the Greek people have been picking up a cross of testimony for years and waited today for the Prime Minister to say specific things. But once again it turns out that the Greeks supported their hopes in false words and promises.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u564	Shame on you! And the Prime Minister's shame!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u565	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to go that way. I apologise for interrupting you, Mrs. Genema.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u566	Mr President, I would ask you very much to impose order. I think it is totally unacceptable what is happening. Take your papers, consult your offices and come and answer whoever has the authority to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u567	I'm sorry, Madam President, but this is about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u568	Then! It is obvious that the nipple simply tightens even more on the neck of the Greek people. The economy is sinking, the assessment is cancerous, large social groups are on the streets and the management of the refugee crisis is now added. Prime Minister, I hope that you will attend the meeting from your office, during your dear tactics all the time. Drive the country once again to a dead end and lead the Greek people to despair and anger. Yes, I have taken the initiative to call for the convergence of the Political Heads of State, because it is clear that the government cannot deal with the situation that has arisen. We don't trust you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u569	Mr. Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u570	I repeat today, there is a need for national consultation and for a national strategy on the situation which can lead to a national tragedy. They have opened up issues that may lead to a national and humanitarian crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u571	That's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u572	Mr. Ministers, Mrs. Bakoyannis, please have some respect. We can't go on like this. I'm sorry, Mrs. Genema.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u573	This picture is, above all, frustrating for the Greek people, for the level of discussion, for the depreciation of all other parties, for the attempt to rebuild two-partyism, a small bipartisanism, a polarisation that does not give answers to the problems of the Greek people. It is unacceptable what is happening today, when we should be talking about national understanding, of a national strategy. They opened up issues that might lead to a national and humanitarian crisis and you're trying to throw the ball on the platform? The picture is dramatic at the moment both in the islands and in Athens and in Piraeus and at the border. Panic, of course, is never a good counselor. He needs temper, but he needs alertness, he needs a deep study of the condition that has been created. It is true that there is an effort from the extremist, hard voices of Europe to exploit the frustration and mistakes of the government to put the management of a matter that is both international and European on the back of the Greek people. The Austrian Interior and Foreign Ministers are deeply exposed to their unilateral decisions. They again attacked Greece for poor border guards. But they did not say a word about Turkey's direct violation of the agreement with the European Union and, of course, they did not say a word about Turkey's blowing NATO's operational planning in the air. The Hungarians have today announced a referendum on whether or not they will agree to apply their own quota for the relocation of refugees. One unilateral action after another. And the planning of the European Union is now completely in the air. Europe is awkward and the government is at the moment panicky, well-known. We should finally put an end to this. There is a need for consultation internally and for all to be active abroad. It is well known that we have taken initiatives for too long. However, this needs to be done by everyone in a coordinated manner with a single plan. The meeting of the political leaders I have asked for is to be held as soon as possible and, of course, before 6 March. Because last night the Prime Minister told me in our telephone communication that he was thinking of happening after 6 March. I wonder if the disaster has come on 6 March, to discuss what the next day? The Democratic Reconciliation will put forward proposals that are up-to-date, on the basis of developments, during this meeting. The need to relaunch the Greek refugee and immigration policy is imperative in order to correct the government's mistakes and omissions. But to relaunch, with new features, without ideals this time, based on European policy, on the European agenda for immigration. The revision of the Dublin Treaty - I mention it very briefly, because these need to be discussed in detail in the Council of Political Heads - should lead to a permanent European relocation mechanism for refugees, which is the only viable and lasting solution for the sharing of refugees in the European Union and then outside it. And in order to do this, we must intervene in time, not in retrospect, with processed positions. Greece must cover the lost time very quickly. We must seek allies, even where it seems that the climate at the moment is not positive for us, but we must fight it. We have done so and will continue to do so with the European socialists. Most of them are still important allies in our country. Unfortunately, our country must now deal with the refugee crisis itself and the consequences of the wrong policies and the fact that we have reduced credibility, precisely because we have dealt with the situation so far. You're at a dead end. Foreign policy is not done with tweets. The political parties have owed the Greek people since 2010 the maturity, responsibility and cooperation on a project, so that we can finally overcome the crisis. I finally come to the draft law entitled 'Transparency, merit, efficiency of the public administration'. You talked about a big incision. Unfortunately, this is simply about coexistence of regulations that were necessary, but others that prove what? Your constitutional perception of the functioning of the state. On the one hand you establish the National Executive Register, from which will draw the officials qualified for the positions of responsibility in the public sector, and on the other hand protect your own party options diligently by switching the filling of posts after 2018. So sure of the merits and effectiveness of your choices you do not want to put them in the test of evaluation? You are excluded from the register from the register from the private sector or local government. But at the same time, you are making sure to protect certain secretaries and agencies from the register. You give the impression that you want the evaluation and, at the same time, choose the levelling-up, the populism of the wholehearted workers and the cancellation of each incentive to the worthy and skilled. You don't understand, gentlemen of the government, the elementary one. A reform is not just done by communicating or closing the eye to the occupants. Progressive reform means that consensus is assured, people who are determined to work towards the implementation of change are assured. Reforming means changing attitudes. None of this can be achieved by the arrangements you have put to the vote. Does the AACC, the JEPs, the 'DENMARK', the public consultation of bills? These, gentlemen of the government, are reforms, these are divisions! Why sectors and reforms in this place only did the great democratic party and then you were across the street. You haven't voted almost any of this. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And I come to the question of farmers. When you say, Mr Tsipras, it is time for the truth, you obviously have finally decided to make self-criticism. Apparently you've changed your mind about everything you said up on the tractors. We're not going to get on the tractors. And we believe that the roads should be open. But farmers must survive, because it is a key pillar for the recovery of the Greek economy. And it looks like you're divorced with anything productive in this place. That was the message of your meeting with the farmers. What did you do? You presented to them the plan Thessaloniki II. The second edition is here. You have put forward promises of an electoral nature without any substantial content and you have not hesitated in them to put in a dignified arrangement, namely, the acquired rights of farmers. Either you didn't know or you thought you could still make fun of farmers. You should therefore seriously bend over the problems, Prime Minister. At the moment farmers are on the streets. We told them that they should respect the difficulties faced by other productive classes in this country and not make their survival even more difficult. But if farmers are to be able to participate in the national effort, they should also be able to produce. And you're destroying them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u574	Thank you to Mrs. Generations, President of the Democratic Reconciliation. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and four teachers and four teachers from the 3rd High School of Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u575	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not old in Parliament, but I am afraid I do not understand this pre-information cigar. We have been informed that the Prime Minister will come and tell us about the important issue of refugee. He spoke forty minutes, fourteen of which to tell us the same thing he said last time at our refugee meeting. I think it would be more useful for everyone if the Prime Minister wanted to give a press conference, give it and not bring a debate to the Greek Parliament without real object and without being here, possibly contradicting what we are going to tell him. So you will allow me to refer to two - three things from what the Prime Minister has put forward in relation to the refugee. We are all aware - and we have said so since the beginning - of the government's criminal mistakes in 2015 in relation to refugees and immigrants, but this is not the debate here. We have to turn a page and don't look back. To realise - and here we agree, Mr SYRIZA - that there is a very great risk ahead of us and to unite our voices. Perhaps Europe will listen to us. Because the mistake that Europe is making today or at least some of Europe is unthinkable. Do Europe's conservative and fearful forces, who want to suppress the refugee flow, do so, but stifle it where? To stop it, making Greece a prison of refugees and immigrants. And I'm afraid they're not wrong. I fear that some states, some governments have a certain choice. In other words, they sacrifice the European ideal, solidarity and humanism on the altar of some humble instincts, on the other hand, they become interlocutors and ultimately serve the Turkish policy that has found a way, leveraging the refugee, making money and gaining points in the European Union. Ten months ago, from Mytilini, we told you what was coming and what you should do. You're late. Now we are all running together to collect unmistakables, with the great danger of threatening to evict from Schengen. Ten months ago, we made proposals, and a few days ago I went to the President of the Republic and again gave ten specific proposals on refugee and immigration. I think many of these proposals are still active, most of them. We have proposed - and we will also propose to the Political Heads of State meeting - the setting up of a national committee of action involving all the involved government actors, but also all the actors in society involved in refugee and immigration. We also propose a national coordinator, who will be addressed and directly accountable to the Prime Minister. It's not enough for the Minister of Immigration, it's not enough. Of course, we have said at the first moment that there must be a new cross-party majority, to force Europe, to force our partners to accept the Yunker proposals, namely the creation of a European border and coastguard, the construction of a hot spot on Turkey's coast and the return of immigrants within a few hours to the Turkish recurring territories. It is not easy at the moment, so late that an overall agreement is reached with the European Union. But our country must insist. We must put two - three issues in Europe, which I think we can all agree on. One of these is that refugees come to Europe and because they come to Europe must be allocated to all the states of the European Union. We must also boldly decide with the cooperation of the other European forces, FRONTEX, with the cooperation and assistance of the European countries, that immigrants are immediately separated from the refugees and that they should return to the first country outside the European Union where they came from, in our case, mainly from Turkey. To sum up, we believe that both maritime borders and NATO should be safeguarded. If they accept to NATO that our country's standing positions are not disputed, NATO must have a role in the Aegean. It should have a role on the Turkish coast, to locate the boats, to identify the smugglers and, if possible, to prevent the strengthening of the refugee waves. The first is the guarding of borders, the second is a return to Turkey of those who are not entitled to asylum, and the third is what I have said to you, the provision of European asylum in all European countries. It is certain that the refugee is currently overcoming the country's potential. Obviously, the Austrians decide and will continue to decide in fear of their country's extreme right, and we should also build a front with other European forces to deal with these xenophobic behaviours. So let's go to a meeting of the Political Heads of State or Government very late, but there we would like some specific proposals, not some leftovers, some specific proposals of the Government or, anyway, the proposals that both the River and the Generations have submitted. However, we must pay attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that, while we are delaying, other human lives are being lost in the Aegean Sea. And as long as we are delaying, Greece is filling up camps and I do not only mean the hospitality centres of refugees and immigrants, I mean the camps that are being created throughout the country. I spoke to Mr. Boutaris a moment ago. The situation in Northern Greece is very difficult. There are conflicts, there are problems that arise in local communities. If we do not deal with the problems, that is, the state, knowing that we will find ourselves before great surprises. The insecurity of residents in specific areas of the country will lead them to extreme actions which cannot be controlled. We must prevent racist choices being strengthened, and the only way to prevent this is to make decisions, not to make decisions. We now go to a matter that the Prime Minister has raised for a while. I'm talking about the coil that was revealed in the blackmailed press about who? - to win advertising and share it. Of course we must congratulate the Greek police on dismantling this coil. There are some in the police that resist, insist. And by the way, since the reason for the police, I would like to ask the Minister of Public Order what is the reason why they 'have' in the crises of Stavros Stavrou. So, what didn't that Greek police officer do? I am talking about the removal of a police officer, who was the triumphant in many battles against organised crime and had revealed several cases of police corruption and the involvement of police officers, a bold man, a bold officer, who was lost in the last crises. The first time we protested, but we have not heard an answer from the government about why this excellent police officer was led to the repatriation. But we're going to the coil that was blackmailing to get ads. He took money, gave it to some others and others, and in return he did dirty jobs. Have you seen the headlines of this newspaper, where her director is accused of this case? Have you seen the headlines? For these headlines, this man was mainly fighting the opposition of the government. In other words, on their front pages I was bribed by Europeans - their own titles -, nephew former Prime Minister and other objects, representative of loan-guns, interconnecting, that is to say, what some SYRIZA and ANELs have said, a bucket of mud that travelled from an average to an average, on a far-right website, on your own website, to your own employees who have a website on the Internet. Different gangs, just like our people say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u576	And the ERT!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u577	And just - be careful! - last week the spiral brain was writing left, colleagues, about how much the Prime Minister is in danger from Google. He laughed at the internet, but the text stayed and has the signature of the man accused of being the leader of this coil. So, what is the relationship between SYRIZA's people and these logs? Because there were...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u578	You say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u579	Fly mud with the fan.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u580	I'll tell you what. You don't want me to tell you and I won't tell you if the investigations don't end up. Because I'm not a SYRIZA, I'm waiting for the results, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u581	Our position is what the interrogator chose!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u582	There were - and you will see them in the police transmission - the testimony of these people who were arrested, saying: We promoted friendly headlines for the newspaper. We worked and worked with the so-called "archimandrite". There's an interpretation for the Minister's name. I don't want to do it, but the government should give specific explanations of who the archimandrite was and what his cooperation was with this circuit was. I will tell you something more political that you may be able to answer and without special knowledge. Why don't we stop the flow of political money to the media? Have you noticed one detail from this case? I ask you: From where to where and until a company such as HICP, which is a monopoly in our country, has an advertising budget of 1.5 million euros in 2016. Tell me! Do you have any response why the state EICP, which is not threatened by any other EICP - why is one in the water system in our country, EICP - has 1.5 million advertising budgets, since there is no money?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u583	Go check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u584	And it's not just H.D.A. It's all the agencies that keep big advertising money. For who? Who do they want to take out?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u585	Are your agencies to blame?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u586	You've been broadcasting for these. Don't you agree that it should be an economy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u587	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u588	Don't now defend the E.R.D., because if you're defending E.R.D., I have more to ask. I would like to ask how HRB strengthens a specific bank. These are things that are unfinished. Let's leave this conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u589	You speak now on the basis of "The NEWs"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u590	I answer the Prime Minister. He was pleased to hear from the Prime Minister that a response from the police was given to a circuit, but this circuit needs investigation because these people in the circuit say they were working for some, for the government. It's not my claim, but it's something the government has to answer. The government must say about the relationship and the limits of relations with these people. But I will stick to my political question. I have mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, because these phenomena are not today. In the previous House, he referred to those holo pages, dip pages, tri-page entries of the EOT, eggs, in Greek newspapers. The Greeks were on vacation, and then EOT, to strengthen some leaves, advertised the Greek islands with many thousand euros. So the phenomenon has long since been observed, from prehistoric political times. The political leadership always keeps some funds in the agencies to enhance friendly leaves or friendly websites. This, for us, has to stop. So if you want to contribute to stopping the flow of political money, there is a very simple solution. There is no reason for these services, at this time, in this crisis to have so much advertising money, if any, to make it all transparent. Where they give them, how they give them, on what criteria they give them, to appear all on the Internet. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of the River is ringing.]] I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing and discussing some of the government's positions, in relation to how we can improve some things. Things are much simpler in public. I think if we say that everything will be transparent, everything will be with contests, we're done. It's an article and a provision that we can bring in this case. Let's make it all transparent. There are no places to be paid, because a Minister decides so or a Minister decides otherwise. There should be notices for all positions, there should be a minimum human potential that the ministers and all the other people should be allowed to choose from the State after contests. There is also one particular position in our minds, and I would like to repeat it here to the Minister, who deals with the public administration. We have a certain position that we have told you. There's the 1985 Chochazopoulou law, and we'll tell you and we'll see you again until you're done away with it. Mr Tsohatopoulos did the political offices of the ministers in 1985. To dismantle. It's a shame, it's an imposition of the political party system on public administration. Our proposal, Minister, is clear, to abolish the law. And one last thing. Because you have a sensitivity to justice, as I have seen, I would like to hear your opinion on the unprecedented Greek data - I think - a complaint lodged by the President of the Ice Bay, Mrs Vassiliki Thanos, against a top constitutionalist, Stavros Tsakirakis, for expressing a political opinion and criticizing a political intervention by Mrs Thanos. The President of the Ice Bay sues a constitutionalist! Look out! And why do you have to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u591	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u592	Let me tell you why you have to answer. For some time now you have passed a provision which has strengthened Mrs Thanos' arbitrary action. Mrs Thanos should understand that as President of the Ice Bay she will be critical of how much more than a constitutionalist of the height and the struggles of Stavros Tsakirakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u593	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u594	No, Mr. Femmelle. Right now they're talking...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u595	It has specifically left the government at the top, and I must speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u596	No, please! No parliamentarian. We're in the process of the Chiefs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u597	It is unacceptable and indiscriminate what Mr Theodorakis implied.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u598	No, please! The Chiefs are talking. Mr President of the Central Association, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u599	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u600	No, Minister, please. The President will be speaking, then Mr. Pope from Golden Dawn for two minutes which he has asked for the floor and we will close with the Minister. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u601	Good evening. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for listening to us. But I'm going to say something I was talking about days ago with a doctor who was a doctor of Andreas Papandreou. He was Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou and the doctor told him, due to a certain state of health, not to be present in the House for many hours. Andreas Papandreou answered him "In the discussions at the level of party leaders I will be, even half-dead. I will be out of respect for Parliamentaryism." What kind of presence was that of Mr. Tsipras? He came in and came out. He said his own.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u602	He was busy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u603	Oh, was he busy? He had work to do, yes, he had work to do. Seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u604	You two days, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u605	Were you here, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u606	So the Prime Minister is missing. But you know why I'm gone? Because I know he's only coming...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u607	Oh, that's the
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u608	I'm sorry, he's setting an example. He's giving an example. So, should we and the Prime Minister be absent? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u609	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u610	But this Chamber is not to describe how it has been done. I'm talking to the gentlemen? Do I have anything with the gentlemen, Mr. President of the House, do you sit down on the benches? I'm talking, I'm saying some things, and the gentleman's answering the glasses, the other gentleman. What are they doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u611	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u612	Do I have a dialogue with anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u613	You're right, it won't be repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u614	Please, finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u615	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u616	I mentioned the respect of Andreas Papandreou for parliamentarianism, which said 'and half-dead to be, I will attend the talks of the Heads of the Parties' - and this should be recorded - and Mr Tsipras is systematically present at the most - in the speech of the Chief of Police and is up and gone. That's what the experience of the four months I've been in here tells me, unless I don't understand well. There have been some discussions in the Chamber about the fact that farmers hold traps on some SYRIZA MPs. You know my position, that I am also against farmers closing off the streets. I have recommended, although I am convinced of the law of their positions, that they should not close the streets, they should not take possession of buildings. However, if attacks are carried out against SYRIZA Members, you are well aware that they are being done because of what you have said before - that you have been feeding them rocked rabbits - and those you are doing now. This huge difference between what you were saying and what you are doing, causes farmers to rise. What do you want? Come and take the vote, promise everything, do all the different things and praise you and say good? Is that what you want? [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Shame on you if you want this! It's not as foolish as you'd like. We come to the essence of the matter. The Prime Minister invited the Chiefs to a political council on the refugee issue. The Prime Minister returned from the outside and said "we were quiet until 7 March". It did not pass a 24-hour day and a meeting of countries that participated and participated in the European Union was held, and while the Prime Minister assured us that by 7 March we would have an absolute order and that everything that was agreed was proved to be in the air. Can that Prime Minister live? A Prime Minister reassured that he went to the summit and had explicit assurances that by 7 March all states will be respected, will no border state be closed, can this Prime Minister remain, in your opinion? Hold it. Another issue is that Mr Kammenos also told me, informing me, that Turkey will respect the decision of 11 February, the signature he made for NATO. Turkey comes yesterday and says that the Dodecanese are a demilitarised zone and that Kastelorizo does not belong to the Dodecanese in Turkey. So, that date I made with Mr. Kammenos, in which he assured me that the question of how NATO is involved is resolved, what responsibilities NATO has, what responsibilities Turkey has in the Navy, what responsibilities the Greek Navy has, and that is lost. We have, in other words, a government that assures and 'before a dilemma you have three voices' is being disproved. Do you like the show? You like it. The Prime Minister, this Prime Minister, who is not present at the talks of the parties' leaders, is coming to a meeting with the President of the Republic to agree - says - on the refugee question. Why? Do we only have to consent to refugee? In the evaluation, which is being delayed, should we not consent? Is the country not at risk again with Grexit? In your opinion, is the country settled financially? The Prime Minister has mentioned a group of issues that he has mentioned to farmers and considers these to be a great benefit for farmers to get back. Report one, report the other. I said last time, I will repeat it and now: farmers are not asking for twenty to do it to them. Farmers feel that their industry is at risk, their lives, that they need to talk to the Prime Minister and the Heads of the parties, but not to the insurance that they consider to be a discount and a failure, but on a zero basis. Is that bad? To want a sector, seeing as it's lost, to have a zero-based conversation, where does it find you opposing? Aren't you interested in farmers? They feel that it is not a matter of reducing the rate of taxation. Their industry is at risk. That's none of your business, isn't it? It took forty days for the Prime Minister to accept them. The Pope of Rome is Mr. Tsipras? Is the Pope of Rome and he wants forty days? Is all Greece an uprising and Mr. Tsipras doesn't want to see the farmers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u617	They weren't. The Prime Minister himself asked them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u618	It also sends out some, picks out who will accept and who do not - this picture exists outwards - and farmers continue their occupations. Is that what you like? The President of the Ice Bay comes in and threatens that those who close streets will suffer the consequences and then the Prime Minister comes in and says: 'We want the good with the dialogue'. How? On the one hand, justice threatens to penalize farmers and, on the other, to 'good' them. What's that? Carrot and whip? What new methods are there in Parliament? Are you, on the one hand, threatening sanctions and, on the other, calling for dialogue and on the other, are you who went up to the tractors and are you who said "all theirs" and promised everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u619	"All the pounds, all the money."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u620	Quiet underneath. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u621	You have seen that there is no room here, Mr President. Gentlemen are riots now. Anyway. What can we talk about? A group of SYRIZA Members have managed to make me completely against you, because I do not tolerate this kind of behaviour. You will be silent and listen, as we are silent and we hear you. Have you heard from our benches screaming when you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u623	Have you heard? You probably don't know what's going on with you. I don't have any more to say. Farmers will be invited to speak with the parties' leaders and with the Prime Minister, unless you want to fall and choose this dead-end way of conversation, unless you have no intention of ruling and are looking for methods to escape. I can only give that explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u624	No, there's no such problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u625	You say, gentlemen, that in insurance you have good measures and indeed the Prime Minister said that the very big ones are affected and the small ones are benefiting. Except the little ones don't understand it except they don't understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u626	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u627	You're divorced with society. Because if the proposals benefit the many at a rate of 95% and the roads are closed, or crazy is the world or you. Pick.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u628	We are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u629	Okay, I know you're picking people, 'cause you're so respectful of him. After she voted for you and you came here, now you can behave as you wish. But society is asking for its vote back, gentlemen, because you have fooled society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u630	You're lying, Your Honor! Don't lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u631	Because if you were to tell them all about what you're doing, you know how much you'd get? He says the Prime Minister has the approval of three successive elections. And he puts approval with the Thessaloniki program of Genaris, puts the referendum and puts it on September 20th. Let's take the third time, which is the most recent. You got 35%. Burned 3.38%? Have you been devastated ever since? Or rather an increase? So, you're a 20%. You should have more respect. And if I suggest you universally, I suggest you get redeemed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u632	Support her, President! I think you'll support us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u633	Am I going to support you? You're kidding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u634	Mr. Papadopoulos, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u635	You saw that the gentleman keeps having a dialogue with me, but it doesn't bother me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u636	Yeah, he's a little vibrant. As a farmer, he's a little lively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u637	But you're not bothering me, because you're asking me to support. After everything you do and I would like with passion to support you, you drive me away. You're the persecutors! At the rate that you have - I am actually talking about, because an occasional parliamentary majority may exist, but it is also at risk and you are not entirely sure that you have it - what you are doing is disrespecting the people, because the people are against it. Both lawyers and notaries and doctors and everyone against you must have gone crazy. Because if they were crazy, they should have been against you and when you promised them. But then it was in your favor. The Greek people have another evil, to be lured and to like pleasant words. You also say about the economics that the evaluation will come and then we will be fine. Then the IMF comes out and says it needs a separate memorandum. Another the Memorandum of Europeans and the IMF Memorandum. And that memorial is usually worse, it's more burdensome. Do you know what happens to you? Because I'm afraid you're in trouble. You're not aware of what's coming. You are also saying that the universal which I propose shows hatred and disobedience to the political world. But the political world has been tested for fifty years and all it has done is ruffles. All that the political world has done is appoint, give sea loans and make such moves. So what are you afraid of? What are some journalists afraid of? That he's the prime minister, if he's a technocrat? And if he's a politician, what is he? Sanctuary?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u638	Are you asking me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u639	No, it's not you. Oh, no. Is the saint the Prime Minister when he's a politician? So we are clearly telling you that this House, whether you like it or not, will quickly give a global solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u640	Is that democratic now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u641	And you will be the ones who will ask for it to be redeemed by the burdens that you already have, and you do not raise them. You don't know the burdens, but they do exist and they'll crush you. He was raped by Mr Mitsotakis to say that he prefers elections rather than a universal government. That's a hurry. Why? We love each other, don't we love the country? If, in other words, the country, for investment, needs a government with 240 MPs. In order to achieve any relaxation of the programme with Europeans, a picture of political stability is needed. If Greece needs them right now, does Mr. Mitsotakis prefer elections? And if the elections come, will he get such a percentage that he has 160 MPs, in his opinion? Again, he will be with 130-140 MPs, even out first. So morality at the moment requires that we look into the country rather than look at each other's ass. I also call on the New Democracy not to rush away from taking stock of what needs to be done, because, above all, it is the pain to the country that should be interested in rather than the plan for our party or for ourselves, personal strategies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u642	It's not a waste. It's a conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u643	Here I see that today, especially, he started swinging cards, the Boyarns, the Prime Minister and, respectively, not letting you answer. This is not a world. It was so serious that, in my opinion, the Civic Opposition had to respond. In other words, it would be worth a ten-minute answer, too. It's mine. When you insist on a serious document against a party, you must also give him the right to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u644	We'll give it, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u645	I'm sorry, but it matters when you answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u646	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u647	Because when you let it calm down...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u648	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u649	Yeah, yeah. My point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u650	The presidents are ahead of us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u651	Because it's a Civic Opposition. It is the moral place, Mr President, as to whether or not they have disguised the tax-raisers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u652	Not dormant.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u653	It is a serious matter what the Prime Minister has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u654	We'll see then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u655	In my opinion, the Prime Minister should also be here when the Qualified Opposition would respond. These are things that we must begin to understand in this Chamber. When there's an important charge, the other one is entitled to answer. He can't answer an hour later, Mr. President. It is a matter of substance, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u656	The Opposition, the other one, what does it say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u657	You are asking us to vote on various bills. Because we feel that the ship is sinking, sitting a masturbation is stupid, in my view. I mean, that looks like the Titanic. Titanic was inhabited, he had already pierced, and some were dancing, not knowing. So that you do not look like these unawares of what is happening, please warmly start this Parliament in the name of the Greek people's claim...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u658	Respect us a little! We're from 10:00 in the morning here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u659	Because a poll came out. Tsipra wants him a 20%, while the world wants a 45%. Are you ignoring everything? Make a poll!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u660	Then no elections, but no poll!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u661	Listen. Listen, please! If what the humble leader of a small party, the Central Union, is of value, make a survey by sending observers to respect the result, and if you see that the result of becoming universal is very great, while trust in the current government is very small, you have a duty to respect society! Otherwise society will fall ass on your heads. You may escape farmers because you all have police gorillas and they're guarding you, but from society you won't get away with!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u662	There they are, there they are! Shame on you! What are these things? Shame on you to threaten the MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u663	Did I threaten? Societies? So you don't know Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u664	He's threatening, Mr. President. He's threatening. That is the intimidation previously said by the President of Parliament. The President of Parliament, did you hear him? You have no democratic feeling, Mr. Leventis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u665	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u666	I'm sorry, who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u667	The President of Parliament, did you hear him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u668	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u669	You'll give me a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u670	I'll give you one. But I'll tell you something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u671	I talked about societies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u672	Rescind it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u673	Rescind what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u674	You said that 'you will not get away with society'. Mr. President, did you hear him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u675	Some people here don't know Greek and they're going back to school.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u676	It is a disgrace to Parliament, Mr President! We said don't get too low. That's enough, Mr. Leventis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u677	I talked about the punishment of society, not beatings, through elections. I talked about democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u678	No, Mr. Leventis. Get back to what you said. Shame on you, Mr. Leventis! Shame on the Centron Association! Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u679	You go on a tractor and squeeze off the roads.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u680	Get back what you said! Shame on you! You must be ashamed, Mr. Leventis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u681	Shame on you, you don't even know Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u682	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u683	Mr President, with all due respect, the expression that police gorillas guard SYRIZA Members... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President, can you hear me? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Leventis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u684	Doesn't the people have the right to punish? By vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u685	Mr. Leventis threatened!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u686	Mr. Leventis... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Leventis, you are a calm man, but what you have just launched doesn't honor you. First, you called the police 'doubles' that are in the care of all Members, including yours...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u687	Mr. President, the cops...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u688	I'll give you the floor. Let me finish a little bit. And the second...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u689	Mr President, there is a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u690	Please, Mr Balaura. And secondly, Mr President, you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u691	The interpretation you give is wrong. You're changing my words...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u692	I will give you the floor, Mr President, if you can hear me. What you said, "World policemen guard SYRIZA's MPs so they don't suffer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u693	I honor their officers, but you have them guard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u694	...manuality by farmers, you understand that it must be revoked, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u695	I apologize to the police if I said a heavy phrase. From you, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u696	There is an inducement, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u697	... looks like a threat, not to say the word 'encouragement'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u698	I apologise if I said a heavy phrase. The word 'gorilla' is not abusive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u699	What you said, Mr President, was unmanageable. Please take the floor, to withdraw both the characterization of gorillas and the indirect urge to disapprove. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u700	Well, I have the floor, and thank you. For the police, when I said that they accompany SYRIZA MPs when they visit various areas that are likely to be opposing them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u701	We don't have cops. At least they have police officers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u702	Oh, don't you have one? Yeah, but the TVs say the police guarded you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u703	Let him talk a little...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u704	But the TVs keep saying that police intervened... [[Noise in the Chamber]] They won't let me speak, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u705	Let him speak, please. Here you go, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u706	For the police, I declare my respect, because under adverse conditions and low wages, they carry out their debts. The word 'gorillas' may have been unfortunate. But, basically, when I said that SYRIZA was to be punished by society, I implyed, because he lied before, he said great words to farmers and other sectors and then, with anti-grass measures, delivers them to fire all these branches and there will be severe punishment. In this respect, I have nothing to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u707	I must tell you that the political punishment of political persons is elections and voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u708	I meant the vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u709	I'm glad we agree that you meant by voting. That is where the disapproval or approval is expressed. After the speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u710	When he went up to the tractors, he didn't mean the vote. He threatened and closed streets, Mr. Tsipras. He didn't mean the vote!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u711	Good, Mr. President! After the speech of the political leaders... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please! In order to proceed with the process, I shall give the floor to the parliamentary groups which are not present for a moment to the parliamentary representatives. Mr Dendias, Mr Papapas and Mr Papachristopoulos have asked for the floor. But please, Mr. Dendia. Just for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u712	We will be opening a new circle, Mr President, but.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u713	No, Mr. Mitsotakis is missing. Obviously, the parliamentary representative will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u714	There is a relevant provision. This is not a gift.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u715	It's clear. No, it's not a favor. No way! He doesn't speak as a parliamentarian. He's talking because he's missing the Chief. You have the floor, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u716	The President will give me the time I need. I'm sure of that. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not a good day for the national Parliament today. I was, in fact, saddened by the presence here of the Prime Minister of the country, Alexis Tsipras. Firstly, the Prime Minister called on the Chief of Officerial Responsibility for his absence from the Chamber. When the prime Prime Minister wants political leaders to attend, he may convene a debate on the agenda and be all political leaders here. When the Prime Minister wishes to appear in Parliament in order to use it as an audience simply and simply inviting the Chamber to speak and leave, the least he can do is to accuse the Chief of Official Representation of his absence from the Chamber. In any case, we can make it clear to the Prime Minister: we are not going to be his audience. His spokesmen in parliamentary dialogue, of course, no! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are now going to the contents of his speech, which should in theory relate to the current legislation. Four-fifths of his speech consumed them for immigration - refugee, half-fifths, to scandal against Officer Responsibility - I will come to this at the end - and the other small part, to praise as supposedly a maximum section of the legislation, which we are discussing today. I noticed his location in migration. He had a lot to say to blame the European partners. I would like to say to you honestly and honestly that I am ready to endorse several of these, because Europe does not honour today's attitude to immigration and does not honor many countries in Europe the attitude to immigration. I have waited, however, for this position to be complemented by the Prime Minister, two other things: the first was to blame Turkey. Turkey's responsibilities for the situation are enormous and NATO's involvement, and we have received four assurances from the government that this is a way of solving the problem, not just has it not come to an improvement in the situation, but it also has, ladies and gentlemen, in addition, underlined national issues, it has created weapons in favour of Turkey. When we were discussing, ladies and gentlemen, in this NATO Chamber, the first time we read the announcement of Greece's joint application with Turkey, did you know that the Dodecanese will not be in the operational control? When we talked about these, did you know where the frigates are going to be? Did you know that frigates will only be a camera base? Did you know these things? You obviously didn't know. You did an eighty-eight-degree turn. But in addition to a hundred and eighty - degree turn you did it artifactly. And besides, you have again put national interests at risk, because you have not guaranteed, before you brought NATO, the conditions under which NATO would attempt. We are - perhaps - right, in fact centre right. But you are, over time, awkward, but this is being done at the expense of national interests. I also expected the Prime Minister, in addition to the debate on Turkey, at least to confess the enormous responsibilities of his government, you of the Couple. We've been warning you for a year and a half for this story. We absolutely foresee you - they are in the Minutes of the House - what is going to happen. We are telling you that they will close the country outside the Schengen area. We tell you that they will turn us into a store of souls and you will do nothing but do anything but do anything more than do with stubborn sermons, as if only you had the monopoly of your heart and we had no heart. Ladies and gentlemen, you have enormous responsibilities. When Austria closed its borders and put a quata, the one who called on Austria and called on its Ambassador was not the Minister of Foreign Affairs as he had to, but Mr Mitsotakis. The Minister of Foreign Affairs took an initiative twenty-four hours later. Then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs woke up to defend national interests. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have a lot to tell you about the things that have been done in immigration. I need half an hour. But you have huge responsibilities, and I tell you this, and it is a pity that you do not even understand them now, so that you can actually come to a national understanding. A national understanding means, first of all, that of our error and then that of what is happening from now on. I'm coming to the issue of the law for two minutes. I want to tell you that this is where we are dealing with a piece of legislation that, I'm sorry to tell you, it's only a section. I would like it to be a cut-off, because it is indeed the public administration in Greece that is weak. I'm not telling you that everything was right about our government. The Chief of Officer Antipopulation, Mr. Mitsotakis, has made a huge effort. He's not even claiming he did everything perfectly. Of course, there is room for improvement and change, if you want, and to work together, but what are you doing? You bring here a piece of legislation, which will apply in 2018 and along with this so-called intersectional legislation, bring eighteen amendments, ladies and gentlemen, most of which are characterised by the joys of the competent ministers. These things aren't serious. Mr Pappas is missing, as are most government ministers who simply come to the table and applaud the Prime Minister and leave. But it should explain what the exception from the law of those who know the Arabic and Chinese language is and serve in the press and communication offices of the country in which the corresponding language is spoken. You can explain to us, if this isn't a photo, what is it? Because I always like to read the text, do you know what you're in danger of? Leave someone who knows Arabic in Beijing and someone who knows Chinese in Syria, but in any case. As for the saving list, brought by the Prime Minister, I would like to tell you, if you have any kindness, when you bring documents to the Greek Parliament, can they also have a stamp and a signature, so that we can know who they come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u717	Okay, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u718	Do not complain because, as I will tell you afterwards, it is not customary for the Prime Minister to tell the truth to the Greek Parliament. I repeat it, just to be attached to my protest. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as Mr Vernardakis is concerned - I do not address him as a category here - I am presenting six FECs for their two partners. Obviously, his colleagues are multiplying from the Prime Minister’s speech so far. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned FECs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end because I do not have the time to speak. But I have to tell you something and tell you from my heart, beyond my party, parliamentary capacity, my opinions, my perceptions and my course in life. I feel that our country is at a key point. We are on the brink of the abyss, and we are in danger every day. If there's one way out of this, it's for us all to get together, and you and us all. This cannot be based on lies and slander, with a view to a party's political survival. The Prime Minister came here and while he made this speech on the major national theme of immigration and refugee, at the end of his speech he revealed why he came. He has tabled this so-called important document - which I am showing you - in German without translation, which, in his view, has shown the guilt of the Samara Government in covering the Boyarns list. Ladies and gentlemen, I have many years to do German, sincerely, and I have no talent in foreign languages. Of course, neither has the Prime Minister proved itself during the debate with Mr Clinton. But can I read you two phrases and translate them? ‘Zu diesem Zeitpunkt ging es nicht um die Liste’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u719	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u720	I'll tell you Greek to understand it. That year - Mr. Boyarns says here - there was no list. The list, which the New Democracy Government was supposed to - conceal, the author of the text brought by the Prime Minister, states in this very text that there was no list. He further says: ‘Die Zuordnung zu griechischen Kontoinhabern is erst 2015 bekannt gewarden’. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that they did not relate the names of the Greeks to the accounts before 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I say this once again, it is the last word, when you come here - and I am not talking about you - when the government comes and works slanderly for opposition, to win five or ten minutes' publicity on television channels. You have reached a point of last political despair. And when a government arrives there, only one thing can be done, and I advise you to do so immediately: get out of here, because neither you go anywhere, nor your country hurts!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u721	Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Christos Pappas, has just spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u722	Thank you, Mr President. We do not need a special invitation and a debate on a pre-dated order. We are fighters, we are present, and the Secretary General of the People's Golden Dawn is present at the headquarters of the Mediterranean Street, preparing with his staff for the great, the eighth conference of the People's Golden Dawn in about a month, in just thirty-two days - I was never good at mathematics - the following March. So I mention it in order to avoid misunderstandings and interpretations about the absence of the Secretary-General. I would also like in this Chamber to produce politics, and at last we must produce politics and not listen to expressions of political importance, such as 'Get up and leave immediately'. That is an empty reason, that is a reason which has no value and we heard it a little while ago by Mr Teddy. But the debate today is not about Mr Teddy. It is for the Prime Minister's presence in this Chamber and what the Prime Minister said. He mentioned, like all the ministers this morning, the criticality of moments. If we said so a moment ago, you would say that 'we have a fascist speech', 'what are you saying', 'to be deleted from the Minutes' or anything else? You yourself now confess to the criticality of the situation. We told you this morning and the people know outside, Prime Minister. Unfortunately, I'm afraid you've lost contact with reality. It is, you know, the permanent problem of the tombs, which are closed in a glass cage, a glass world where they live a virtual reality, the alococcus and the mandarins of power. And, unfortunately, the Prime Minister has not escaped this shameful position of the respective graves and representatives of power. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the Hungarian Prime Minister declares a referendum with the following question: 'Do you want the European Union to determine the relocation of non-Hungarians without the approval of the Parliament?' He is a member of the European Union. In other words, it is a referendum on whether or not the country will implement the decisions of the summit. In other words, Mr President, we are, in essence, experiencing historic moments and seeing the European Union collapse. The German rule isn't falling apart. Regrettably, the German rule keeps and will hold as long as they are willing. I address the Prime Minister well - as far as you can speak well to a man whose decisions lead the country to chaos and destruction, well-meaningly for reasons of age, because I spend twelve years of age - and I say: You dare, Prime Minister. You can imagine, even at the moment when the country is isolated and detested - you, right-wing and left-wing 'zetiana' of Europe - dare and prevent the tsunami coming. You seem worthy of the circumstances. Don't make our country a hopeless warehouse. Dare you too a referendum such as Hungary, rather than a referendum like last July, to get a dynamic "no" of the Greek people for the refugee and with a weapon this "no" "no" will close our borders, which the honored Greek Army and no Frontex and no NATO must guard. To be the responsibility of the Ministry of National Defence, and not the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection. Also, Prime Minister, even at this very last moment, differentiate your distorting view, which is about your obsession with the ideas of your youth as a member of the CNN, about 'open borders'. You are talking about open borders, Prime Minister, and you are calling, in essence, all these invaders in our country. Prime Minister, finally change your strategic alliance. Abandon the collapsed Europe, because this Europe, in fact, is our misery. Make the only ethnicly beneficial foreign policy. So turn to Russia. Tell 'no' to 'hospitable NATO and the European Union. Do it, though, without drumcrossing. Do it with the secret diplomacy. All parties say and provoke against secret diplomacy. Fortunately or sadly, I would say both together, the secret diplomacy existed, there is. So do it without a drum impact. Don't burn the paper called Russia. It's hope for Greece. Well, dare you, Prime Minister. But I am afraid - and I conclude, Mr President - that my words will remain empty and you will continue to speak about the fascist dangers and the insults that are heard here by all the opposition parties, which are co-responsible for the fate of our country at the moment. And you will speak tears about pigheads in Shhsto, as if this is the issue that is currently about the people, if it is the cross. You spoke a moment ago about homeland and religion. Who? The Left - Listen, listen - Tsipras. Prime Minister, Stumple's "stupid" wasn't for you. You should understand that. "Stupid" was a knife on the side of Greece and you had to answer as Prime Minister of the Greeks. In your attitude, unfortunately, you are not the Prime Minister of the Greeks. You're Prime Minister of SYRIZA. And I will end, Mr President, that you should not call the Prime Minister. Now be Europe's third Chancellor. Because you are turning Greece into a huge hot spot with bars and wires and you are the third Chancellor after Chancellor Germany, Austria. You are now Chancellor of Greece. Mr. Dendia, you said these "get up and leave, etc.", which are laughing. He's a laughing opposition. I want to tell you that you've done a hypocritical and bicolabisty speech. You said at a point that you had a soul. I'll turn it over, and I'll ask it a question, 'cause you probably don't have a soul. I'll say, do you have a soul? Do you have a heart? Or get up. If you stay this way, you will stand ravages, your children and herrings, your children’s children’s children. We Chrysayites aren't racquets. We were born Greeks, free Greeks, we believe in homeland, in faith, in freedom. And we are fighting for a new Greece, a Greece that will belong to the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u723	Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor, in the place of Mr. Kammenos, from the Independent Greeks for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u724	Thank you, Mr President. I was surprised to hear Mr. Dendia being unusually aggressive, because he has used us to argue. One may disagree with him, but he usually speaks with arguments. I would recommend to him that he read the translation of the document better because he is irreparably exposed. I'm talking about the list. Read the list carefully. I would also like to mention two incidents that have taken place these days. I was in the Netherlands, when a major business shareholder of "AMRO BANK" was found to do an illegality. He had built a building illegally. He was guarded. They knocked his house down. He paid ten times a fine and, when he came out of prison, he apologized to the Dutch people. Today I have heard an editor - who has been referred - indirectly threatening the government to be temporary, i.e. 'I will shoot you'. And I have not seen anyone - I want to believe that this government has been democratically elected - to be disturbed, to sweat his ear. I want to remind you of something else, especially about my friend Vassili Leventis, who I very much appreciate and I have never talked negatively about him. I would like to remind the Head of the Central Association - I repeat that he has my respect and I mean it - that Sikashek in the most official way, Mr President, told a German court over 100 names of the two major parties, which are in SIEMENS and have been bribed. Nobody knows what these names are, Mr President, and my answer is from now on: I hope - I do not know - that they will not be politicians in active employment, that they will have passed. But we don't know. I would also like to remind the respected New Democracy Parliamentary Representative that it is recent, freshly, that the advisor of the then Prime Minister, who was really negotiating our issues, has proved to be also a tax seeker and has gone and paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u725	It didn't prove. He's appealed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u726	He did, but he paid for it, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u727	He hasn't been tried.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u728	It's not the same. Let's be precise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u729	I'll take it right. You're right, okay. I even hope that the presumption of innocence will apply and take its money back. I want to say one more thing. I often hear the word 'ecumenical'. I heard it today by the President of the Centroon Union. Mr President, you have focused too much on universality. Your point of view is respected. Democracy, you can say your opinion. Ecumenical to who? We're not all, you know, the same in this room.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u730	I mean technocrats, not politicians.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u731	I heard you with respect. Listen to me. Who was pressing for PROTON BANK to be given to Laurentiadis? Look for it. I would like to remind you that the political system that ruled this country is struggling to prove that all suffering is one year old now. I admit we made mistakes, that we made wrong choices, etc. We're not the same in this Chamber. We already see that a large part of the former Prime Minister's environment has a problem. I'm saying this because for us it's a matter of principle. Ecumenical with people who, by alpha or beta way, have been confused in scandals not one in a billion! Another consensus and other coexistence. Don't mess it up. We can get to know each other, we get the hundreds of fifty - three votes. I would like to say something else, because it has been heard too much, with high tones at a time when it should not be: national issues, such as NATO. Two and a half hours from now, NATO's official response to what exactly the agreement we have done will be given. Be patient, because it's really hard times. It is not the Greek Prime Minister and the Greek Government. I just want to remind and finish with this that the person in charge of FRONTEX, he has admitted that the flows have increased eighteen times after the attack in Paris, after the collapse of the Russian plane, after the recent terrorist strike in Damascus and no one in Europe, those with a little mind, does not incriminate Greece. Those who incriminate her - and I would like to credit her to the political leaders - are not the political leaders of the democratic arch. And I agree with those who say that not only on the issue of refugees, but also on other issues of consensus. I repeat, this government does not need the coup d'état. He's got a marathon, he's a hardcore player, and he's gonna end this marathon. I'm telling you right away, it's going to end him. Yes, the country is in a difficult position, with one difference: society, the Greek citizen, will never be convinced that this government that might have made a mistake, had exaggerated, made wrong choices, put its hand in honey. This government never put its hand in honey! To be heard by Greek citizens. The government is not corrupted. It's her big ace. And this ace, while society is suffering, will be on our side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u732	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. We conclude the debate with the placement of the Minister, Christos Vernardakis, Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u733	Mr President, Christopher, not Christos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u734	I'm sorry, Christopher.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u735	We have reached the end of a exhaustive process, not in a good way. Dear Mr. Dendias, who declares right-wing but at the same time a little admirer of Ioannis Metaxas, used what Ioannis Metaxas, Joseph Goebbels, used, speaking Germanly in the Greek Parliament and not translating, but giving what he thinks was written. So I read the exact translation from today's correspondence by Mr Borgians: "I can confirm the description of the then Greek consul at Düsseldorf Mr. Plexidas, that in the context of repeated talks I gave him assistance in strengthening the Greek tax administration" - attention now - "and also for the analysis and evaluation of cd data. At the time, our subject was not the list, which we delivered last November, through the central tax office to the Greek Government. The objective of the 2012 debate was possible evidence of Greek tax-governmenters.’ That is what the translation of the text, which Mr Dendias concealed, has also had the courage to speak about six of my colleagues and also mentions an FEK, in which, of course, it does not say that most of them are seconded by the already existing public sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u736	As it has been said, they are know-how. Read it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u737	Again. What exactly can I read to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u738	Read the following.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u739	Wait a minute and we'll find it all. Wait a minute, they see us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u740	It's none of our business...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u741	Obviously, it's none of your business, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u742	Read the whole text.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u743	It's all right. "I can confirm the description of the Greek consul at Düsseldorf, Mr. Plexidas, that during our repeated talks I offered him assistance in strengthening the Greek tax administration, as well as in analysing and evaluating cd data. At that time, our subject was not the list, which we delivered last November, through the central tax administration to the Greek Government. This link to Greek beneficiaries was only possible in 2015. The objective of the 2012 debate was possible evidence of Greek taxfamilies.’
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u744	Possible readings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u745	Yeah. So?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u746	So what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u747	Possibly evidence of Greek tax fugitives, which the Greek Government refuses to take.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u748	Are you getting out of this that there was a cd and they gave it to us? Is that how you interpret it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u749	‘As well as for the analysis and evaluation of cd data.’ Look, Mr. Georgioda, I don't know what you understand. A simple man with little computer knowledge, a student of primary school understands that there is a database from which specific data would be received for Greek tax-gatherers. More specifically. We have a large database where there are elements, i.e. numbers of accounts, number of deposits, names, patronages and other elements from which the Greek administration could find the specific data for Greek tax-gathers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u750	When we'd have it. He said they gave it and we didn't get it? Does this thing say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u751	Wait a minute. I'm coming back to our original theme. There is a letter today. There are other correspondences and statements, not secretly. We are talking about what the letter today says on February 24, 2016, sent by the Minister of Finance by Mr Norbert Valer Borgians. What he says today and what Mr. Dendias said. What did Mr. Dendias say? Mr Dendias read a text in German, that is, he read the top part of the text in German and said that there was no such thing. So we can all understand what this text says. And in any case, why are you cutting off now? There's no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u752	But you said they gave it to us. That's the charge. That's how it sounded by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u753	All in the light. No one's guilty in advance, I mean. Everyone has the presumption of innocence. All in the light. We will also get the answers from those responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u754	Well, let's do an exam.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u755	Sure. Yes, suggest it. It's not a bad idea. You suggest it, and if it comes down, you vote on it. It's not a bad idea. And in any case, do we have anything to fear of absolute transparency? Nothing. So we agree and let us stay here. Let's go later now. Mr. Georgiadis Adonis didn't come all day. I don't know where he is. In the channels, however, it was in the morning. I asked him yesterday - but he says things - to bring us the assessments he claimed to be there and to give abusive assessment ratings to civil servants. Apparently, he didn't bring them. By the time I told him, something told me about an allowance. Other words to be loved. We're throwing a lot of talk. When the time came for him to come today, he hasn't even appeared in the House today. Good policy! There is, unfortunately, no such evidence, because according to the 1999 Staff Code, such reports did not have a role to play in the evaluation system. That was the problem. He's not gonna find that kind of evidence. Therefore, we are now invoking data which do not exist. So the myth has been built that when an evaluation was made - when was it? - Everybody was getting great. - That's great. - while you shouldn't. You should...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u756	In each chief every year, everyone had perfect ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u757	Can you give me the evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u758	Everyone knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u759	Is there a database of these data?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u760	In the bulletins that each chief does, they all had nine and ten. We all know. The whole of Greece knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u761	The whole of Greece knows. Can we know that, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u762	No evaluation, in the sense of evaluation. In every head of the papers. That's what used to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u763	Oh, not with the evaluation. These elements, which all of Greece knows, not to say air words, can we have them so that we can assess them, why can they be real? But it may not be. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Look, do you know what the problem is? The problem is that you have been trying to cover the abusive and repressive policy with which you have been conducting for five years. Mr Mitsotakis just said yesterday that someone who is not properly evaluated - said it in his interview with Mr Hatzinikolaou - is at 10% that rate. How does that 10% know? That 10% of where it comes from? One, who is not properly evaluated, is at 10% this rate and is usually not evaluated well. Do you know what this is? This is the usual - and Mrs Keramos has tabled - quota, which is in the educational evaluations, that we have about 10%, which is excellent - but, estimated over time statistics - and 10%, which is not good. And you appear today and even put some light bulbs from Potami, because the New Democracy does not dare put this on, that is, it dares not connect the bad and even binding assessment to the low extent, because it will suspect or frighten the world of work in the public sector, that it can be identified with redundancies or with possible redundancies. However, the Potami, which has no such political cost struggles, puts it directly. And in the question, Mr Fotella, because you put it and you put it again, what about the bad guys, I would like you to answer: If we assume that we have a 10% to 15% bad ones a year, we will connect it to what? I'm fired, you say, either by smuggling or by something like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u764	With retraining and much more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u765	The 'Re-education', I said it and you question it. That's my question. We will do everything possible, but we will not lose our jobs. We will seek to make the structure better, better conditions and so on. I want you to tell me this: One year, say 2016, we have an 8%, which is bad. In 2017 we have another 8%, which is bad. In 2018, we have another 8% rate. In other words, in three years' time, we have the mere fact that, when it has locked evaluation quotas, this will happen. In other words, you say that in three years' time, it is possible with any system of evaluation of this kind that 1/4 of civil servants will be found outside the public sector, i.e. losing their jobs. That's what you're saying. Because 15% or 10% is not once in ten years, say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u766	Do you know these numbers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u767	They are the percentages claimed by the Mitsotakis Act for the evaluation. I don't call it theoretically. It is still considered that this 10% exists as locked. We have an idea that there is a 10%, which may even exist - we don't know - but we can't prove it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u768	There's no idealism in the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u769	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u770	I'm saying we don't have any ideas on the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u771	That's right. Okay. So don't get those obsessed with what we're gonna do for those who'll be badly evaluated. Let's go later now. Where do we agree? Is there a deal? There is. That we have a public that's bad. And that's not just what Varvaressos said in the 1950s, Mitsotakis says in 2016. Be careful, however, what is the difference. Varvaressus, the poor man, has never exercised politics. Besides, it wasn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u772	Exercise indirectly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u773	Yes, he indirectly exercised, but he didn't at least run the public administration. So Mr Mitsotakis says, which is very interesting, because it is the description of the situation, and here I agree: 'I am not saying that the people we placed in administrations had bad intentions. They were completely irrelevant to the subject, i.e. they did not know about financial management". I imagine that, for example, this particular one mentions it. "That was very often the case. Why did it happen? Because we had exactly that logic. We have to go take care of friends and friends in the wider regime. And we had it as a New Democracy too." This is a completely cynical confession of the way it has been done all these years and by the New Democracy - and the current leader recognises it in honour - but of course also from the whole political system to this day, this choice and evaluation of the executives, hence the phenomena of the assignments and not the choices, hence the phenomena of partyism, the absolute partyisation of everything. How are we going? Is that right? And, gentlemen of the Democratic Association or of DIMAR in particular, you are not innocent of this blood. Because the 4-2-1 took place in your day and has the signature of the correspondents who wrote and said: At the hospital in Larissa, ours, he - the name. He complained, he says, that PASOK did not take the two on the board of the Tower Hospital, for example. These are correspondences, that's evidence. Four - two - one, cartel, generalized cartel in the state, generalized for many years now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u774	Nine - one now. Greater success!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u775	Okay, we'll see. So now we're going to the register and say 'the register'. And because you say: 'Since when did the register?', I remember Mr Fotella who said at the first meeting of the committee that both hands would vote for it. Mr. Fotella, now the record of the Secretary-General. Now. By 30-9-2016 all posts are declared and covered by the end of the year. Now! Do you agree? Shall we go? Vote it, then. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck. Private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u776	Do we have another amendment, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u777	No, she's the one testified as a legislative improvement. We've testified her. Haven't you seen her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u778	"Administrative secretaries"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u779	Yeah, that's her. Administrative secretaries and a review of the legislation on government institutions, not by a presidential decree, but by a law - behold Rhodes, behold and jump and now - to define what political offices are and what the government bodies are, because indeed the general secretaries until now were included in the Presidential Decree on government institutions. That's true. That's why Mr. Voridis said they were political. That's what he said. Because they are typically political, in fact they are party choices, and in practice they are a party-management hybrid. This is the cradle of the Greek administration. Are we going to change him, yes or no? You want to change him? We are here to change him and with great consensus not to be with a presidential decree, but by law. Not with the power, with the absolute control of the executive or the Minister who say they do and show the ministers, Mr President. Because it is not a good reform, a good idea, a record, but in any case, let us see why not local government and why not the private sector and why not the lawyers and why not the doctors and why not the engineers. We will either make a serious political change of the public, respectful of the public's human resources, or recycle the current situation. Here I will agree with many good-faithed and good-faithed people who say that we do not need the reforms as much as the applications. That's a fact. Because many reforms have taken place and what has been properly implemented has been introduced. In this we have no problem recognising that the ADP was a conquest of years. But you also heard a rapporteur who said that he resigned from PASOK because his party was undermining the ADP. Anastasios Peponis did, indeed, fled with this poorness, that the ASP was being undermined. Here's Rhodes, for the third time, here's the fuck. All right, let's upgrade S.H.I.E.L.D., then. Let's do this. Will you come by tomorrow to the staffing of the AACC? Or as an independent authority, will we leave the back door so that the AAP is not served and headless? There are many comments that have been made, which were obviously correct. There was an exhaustive consultation in this bill. So exhausting I don't think it's happened before. But I am convinced that many times we are talking without understanding or dealing with one another. Even today I have heard objections, which are not only nonexistent, but they show that the draft law has not even been read. It has not been read, there has not been a systematic effort to read and understand what is happening. For example, one speaker said: 'How will we now ensure that they do not get excellent?' It's a reasonable question, indeed. It doesn't mean that because it didn't happen there's no danger. That's a reality. Didn't you see that we're setting up a special Directorate-General for Monitoring and Recording all the evaluation data, impersonally? Didn't you see that? You saw it. We are building implementing structures, which can be monitored and which can tell us, by tracking data over time, where, in fact, what commander, who is the director-general, who regularly and over time follows a policy of personal customer relations within the public sector. Who and why. And that is where we can have weightings for this rating. Because our problem is to work this whole thing, and anxiety is reasonable. There are other examples of this which I will not mention. I want to say something because there has been a lot of discussion about the other provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u780	Will you need a lot of time, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u781	No, I am just finishing with this phrase, which concerns the other provisions. I would like to say to you this: I personally am not at all pleased with the image of having a law and many other provisions. It's a fact. We are not honoured as a Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u782	And amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u783	Yes, and amendments. Of course, we can separate two things. Dialogue can, indeed, improve certain things. I told you all over again. It's not a given thing. He doesn't know all about one or a team. And it doesn't mean that whatever it sounds like is for the trash can. That's not the case. At least in this case. I don't know what's going on in other cases. Therefore, we can say that so far we have been able to make improvements, corrections, suggestions. Why not? It's an open parliamentary procedure. Isn't that how it's supposed to be? If there's an idea that someone's right to believe, don't we have to incorporate it? The accident is different. That it is the objective reality of increasing problems in the administration, where we are indeed forced to legislate in an emergency. You understand that, too, because you too are being treated with such problems. They don't come up now. Here we have stories and loose ends, as is the article on the successors of the 1997 SAA, which is still within twenty years, and you all recognize it and you will, I hope, vote on it. It's a twenty-year-old loose end. Do you realize that we have deprived some people of the right to work as a state, and have we not done any good either in public or in these people, neither in the economy, in the insurance funds or anywhere? We are coming and you are even making proposals and amendments on this, and many of them I have accepted, and many have not accepted them, because some have been accepted, but many have not been accepted. Why wasn't it? For I understand that at most it is problematic. Indeed, there are issues that we need to see more carefully. We must put it in a logical way, and in this way, in my view, we must legislate, but I say to you that I will personally ask all the ministers, because they have this experience of legislating now, because there must be much better and much more organized reflection and planning on how all these legislation is being implemented, because we really need to go to conditions and rules of good legislation. This will help you, too, and consultation will help us both to participate and will help us all, in any case, build a better public sector in favour of citizens - I say again - and in favour of the public interest, because that is the key, in my opinion. That is where we have to agree or disagree. Public interest in the benefit of the citizens. That's all I wanted to say. I think that in the next few years we have the opportunity with an open mind to build a better public sector, always with respect for the public sector's powers and not just the public sector, obviously. Don't say the self-evident thing. However, since we are starting with the public sector's human resources, we must respect its experience, its work opportunities, the employment relationships in the public sector, and I think that everything will be better for this 'big patient' described since the 1950s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u784	Mr President, because Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u785	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u786	Mr President, the Minister has made it clear that Mr Dendias has submitted inaccurate evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u787	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u788	I want clarification from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u789	Ma'am, you have the floor to explain. That's a sensitive matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u790	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u791	Mr President, I too would like to reply because the Minister asked me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u792	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u793	There's no way. All right, all right. Sit down. We'll solve everything. Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u794	Minister, you have seen that with great respect, I, previously, did not submit FEC and did not do so because I find it in vain. Have all the advisors you want, but at the National Representation we have to tell the truth. The question now is this: The Prime Minister has said that you have two posters. Mr. Dendias filed documents, FEC, which indicate you have at least six. I ask you in front of the National Representation: do you have two posters, as the Prime Minister said, or do you have more than that, or are you telling us that the FEK is inaccurate? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u795	Good. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u796	So, did you see that we have to be a little careful? He did not say "retired". He said "coworkers".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u797	I have the minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u798	I'm invoking them. He said "coworkers". Resurrect, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u799	It's 27-1. The Prime Minister has said "retired". I've got them here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u800	We now say what Mr. Dendias said. Will you tell me what the Prime Minister said? Didn't Mr. Dendias say? She testified for six partners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u801	Do you have two or more of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u802	"Convicters" what do we mean? We mean people we've taken from them not distracted from the public. I've got three posters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u803	The FEK looks four.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u804	The others are distracted by the public sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u805	Good, Minister. They'll ask for a minute, Mr. Theocharopoulos and Mr. Photilas. Minister, answer and close. Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u806	Thank you. Minister, I really am very surprised to hear your position. As President of the Democratic Left, I would like to say something to you: DRMAR and PASOK participated in a government and New Democracy, as you know, was the party that had most seats at that time. You are currently in the government, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks and you are the majority party you are in this cooperation. Why am I telling you this? Because you referred to "flying mud in the fan" just now, without depositing anything. At the close of your speech you referred to the past. I could not say anything to you - because I am President of the Democratic Left now, I was not at that time - but you mentioned throwing mud without tabling anything. I challenge you to testify if you have evidence of all that you have said. I will tell you, however, that you are now one year running - SYRIZA - have made regional education officials - the thirteen executives - under rule 11-2. If that is what we are honouring you as a party on the Radical Left to tell the House, because I do not think it honors the Left. And you are setting up in all procedures a party state, which we have often told you that not only does it honor SYRIZA but it does not honor the country at the moment in the state it is in. I could refer to many examples. We should therefore be more careful when we talk about such matters. I am telling you this because you have just seen the consensus we are trying to deal with a number of issues, and you will see it shortly in the vote on the articles. We do not think that everything you do is wrong. First I told you, before my speech, that you have accepted some of the amendments of the opposition, of the New Democracy, of the JRC and of the Democratic Alliance. But this in the end, at the closure of your speech "fly mud in the fan" doesn't honor you and please get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u807	Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u808	I just wanted to say something about the civil servants who are considered inappropriate. You said that if in one, two or three years, one/4 of civil servants were considered inappropriate what would happen, where will we go? First of all, the answer is clear. I hope and believe that 1/4 of civil servants are not inappropriate. If they do not know that there will be some consequences for their evaluation, then it will be reduced even further. However, if 1/4 is indeed found to be inappropriate, the answer is clear: they must be removed and transparently replaced with new ones. You know, it's not about ideology or politics. It's a matter of common sense. Neither the public nor the private sector can pay people for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u809	Minister, if there's any answer you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u810	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u811	Not at all. If it is possible at this time to open a debate!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u812	I think the Minister wants it too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u813	Mr. Papatheodorou, there's no way. You don't sound. Minister, you're only going to answer what you've been questioning. Very soon, you will answer, so that we can vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u814	One question!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u815	There's no question right now. None!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u816	To answer Mr. Theocharopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u817	Do you abolish the Secretary-General?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u818	It's not possible! Minister, please. We're not opening a new dialogue. You've heard two seats.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u819	He'll have to tell us if he's dismantling the general secretaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u820	There's no conversation. It is impossible to open a new debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u821	But he'll have to tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u822	You don't sound. Please! We can't answer that. Minister, answer for a minute and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u823	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u824	It's not possible, Mr. Papatheodorou, please! Minister, you will not answer Mr. Papatheodorou. We're not going to open a new conversation!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u825	But we shall vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u826	No, no! Answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u827	I will answer Mr. Theoharopoulos. Mr. Theocharopoulos, I don't know if you participated in such high leadership positions at the time. The people say: "Whoever has the fly smells" and I talk about the 4-2-1 about which you say you want data. The people say 'whoever has the fly smells' and says something else: 'Don't scratch on the sprinkler'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u828	That's what we're telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u829	Obviously, there is evidence and correspondence, but - be careful - I do not want to blame you at the moment, because my problem is political, not to prove to you. I think we can do that very easily and I think you personally would be surprised. But the problem is political. The 4-2-1, that is, the public administration cartel, do we accept it? Not obviously. Whoever says that he accepts it, I think he'll be out of common sense. You're not accepting it. But come on, that was the usual practice, not now, but too many years. That's the problem. Are we going to start with the treatment of this problem? That's what I think we're agreed on. From that point on, we'll figure it out on the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u830	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior and Administrative Reconstruction is adjourned: 'National Register of Executives of Public Administration, Rating Structure of Positions, Systems of Evaluation, Promotion and Selection of Heads (transparency - merit and effectiveness of Public Administration) and other provisions'. All the groups in Parliament have shared the plasma of the bill, as well as a detailed list of the amendments, so that we know exactly what we are voting on. You know, of course, that there are too many articles and amendments and we will need some time. So we should be as focused as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u831	Mr President, I would like to make a statement on Amendment 230. We will call 'yes' apart from the missions to NATO and the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u832	Mr President, I would like to say that we will say 'no' to Rule 25 and not because it has incorporated the amendment that we have tabled, but for the reasons that we have mentioned both in committee and in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u833	We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u834	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u835	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u836	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u837	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u838	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u839	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u840	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u841	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u842	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u843	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u844	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u845	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u846	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u847	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u848	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u849	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u850	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u851	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u852	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u853	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u854	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u855	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u856	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u857	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u858	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u859	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u860	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u861	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u862	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u863	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u864	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u865	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u866	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u867	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u868	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u869	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u870	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u871	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u872	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u873	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u874	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u875	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u876	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u877	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u878	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u879	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u880	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u881	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u882	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u883	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u884	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u885	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u886	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u887	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u888	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u889	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u890	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u891	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u892	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u893	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u894	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u895	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u896	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u897	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u898	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u899	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u900	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u901	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u902	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u903	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u904	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u905	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u906	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u907	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u908	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u909	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u910	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u911	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u912	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u913	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u914	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u915	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u916	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u917	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u918	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u919	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u920	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u921	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u922	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u923	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u925	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u926	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u927	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u928	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u929	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u930	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u931	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u932	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u933	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u934	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u935	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u936	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u937	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u938	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u939	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u940	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u941	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u942	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u943	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u944	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u945	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u946	Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u947	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u948	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u949	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u950	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u951	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u952	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u953	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u954	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u955	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u956	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u957	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u958	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u959	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u960	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u961	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u962	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u963	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u964	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u965	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u966	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u967	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u968	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u969	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u970	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u971	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u972	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u973	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u974	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u975	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u976	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u977	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u978	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u979	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u980	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u981	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u982	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u983	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u984	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u985	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u986	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u987	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u988	Article 23 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u989	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u990	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u991	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u992	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u993	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u994	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u995	Article 24 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u996	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u997	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u998	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u999	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1000	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1001	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1002	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1003	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1005	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1006	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1007	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1008	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1010	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1011	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1012	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1013	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1014	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1015	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1016	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1017	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1018	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1020	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1021	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1022	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1023	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1024	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1025	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1026	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1027	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1028	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1030	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1031	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1032	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1033	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1034	Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1035	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1037	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1038	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1039	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1040	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1041	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Asked by this House: Can Article 32-old 33 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1044	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1045	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1046	Article 32 - old 33 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 33 be accepted - as long as it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1047	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1048	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1050	Article 33 - old 34 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Questions to this House: Can Article 34-old 35 be accepted as long as it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1051	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1052	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1053	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1055	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1056	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1057	Article 34 - old 35 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Rule 35 - old 36 - be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1058	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1060	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1061	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1062	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1063	Article 35 - old 36 - was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Questions to this House: Can Article 36-old 37 be accepted as long as it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1064	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1065	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1066	Article 36 - old 37 - was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by this House: is Article 37 old 38 accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1067	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1068	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1069	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1070	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1071	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1072	Article 37 - old 38 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Questions to this House: Can Article 38-old 39 be accepted as long as it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1073	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1074	Article 38 - old 39 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Does the House agree: can Article 39 - old 40 - be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1075	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1076	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1077	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1078	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1079	Article 39 - old 40 - was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Questions to this House: Can Article 40-old 42 be accepted as long as it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1080	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1081	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1082	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1083	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1084	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1085	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1086	Article 40 - old 42 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Does the House agree that Article 41 of the old 43 will be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1087	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1088	Present
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1089	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1090	Article 41; old 43; was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 42 old 44 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1091	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1092	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1093	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1094	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1095	Article 42 - old 44 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Questions to this House: Can Article 43 old 46 be accepted as long as it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1096	Article 43-old 46- has therefore been accepted as it has unanimously been. Questions to this House: Can Rule 44-old 47 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1097	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1098	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1099	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1100	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1101	Article 44 - old 47 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Questions to this House: Can Article 45 be accepted as long as it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1102	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1103	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1106	Article 45 - old 49 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Questions to this House: Can Article 46 old 51 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1107	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1108	Article 46 - old 51 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Asked by this House: is Article 47 an old 52?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1112	Article 47 - old 52 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Questions to this House: Can Article 48 old 53 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1113	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1115	Article 48 - old 53 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Asked by this House: is Article 49 old 54 acceptable?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1116	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1118	Article 49 - old 54 - has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 217 and a special number 2 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1120	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1121	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1122	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1123	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1124	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 217 and a special 2 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 218 and a special number 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1127	Therefore, Amendment No 218 and Special Special 3 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 227 and a special number 10, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1128	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1129	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1130	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 227 and a special 10 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Can the House accept the amendment under a general number 228 and a special number 11, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1131	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1132	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1133	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1134	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1135	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1136	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1137	The amendment under a general number 228 and a special 11 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 252 and a special number 22, which is part of Article 8 of the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1138	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1139	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1140	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1142	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1143	Therefore, the amendment under general number 252 and a special 22 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 8 of the draft law. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 254 and a special number 24 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1144	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1145	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1146	Therefore, the amendment under general number 254 and a special 24 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 255 and a special number 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1148	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 225 and a special 25 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 256 and a special number 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1149	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1150	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1151	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1154	Therefore, the amendment under general number 256 and a special 26 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 258 and a special number 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1155	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 258 and a special 28 was accepted as it is unanimous and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 259 and a special number 29?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1156	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1157	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1158	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1159	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1161	Therefore, the amendment, under a general number 259 and a special 29, was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 260 and a special number of 30?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1162	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1163	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1164	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1165	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1166	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 260 and a specialist of 30 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 261 and a special number 31 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1167	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1168	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 261 and a special 31 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 262 and a special number 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1169	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1170	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 262 and a special 32 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 263 and a special number 33 as it stands and which is part of Article 31 of the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1171	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1172	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1173	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1174	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1175	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1176	The amendment, by a general number 263 and a special 33, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 31 of the draft law. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 265 and a special number 35 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1177	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1178	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1179	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1180	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1181	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1182	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1183	The amendment under a general number 265 and a special 35 were therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 267 and a special number 37 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1184	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1185	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1186	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1187	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1188	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1189	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 267 and a special 37 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 268 and a special number 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1190	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1191	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1193	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1194	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1195	Therefore, the amendment under general number 268 and a special 38 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 219 and a special number 4, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1196	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1197	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1198	The amendment under a general number 219 and a special 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 221 and a special number 5, which forms part of Article 25 of the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1199	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1200	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1202	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1203	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1204	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 221 and a special 5 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 25 of the bill. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 222 and a special number 6 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1205	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1206	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1207	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1209	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 222 and a special 6 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 223 and a special number 7, which is part of Article 39 of the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1210	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1211	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1212	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1214	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 223 and a special 7 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 39 of the draft law. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 230 and a special number of 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1215	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 230 and a special 13 has been accepted unanimously and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 234 and a special number 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1218	Therefore, Amendment No 234 and Amendment No 14 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 250 and a special number 20, which is part of Article 39 of the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1220	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1222	So the amendment under a general number 250 and a special 20 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 39 of the draft law. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 264 and a special number 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1223	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1224	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 264 and a special 34 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 266 and a special number 36 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1225	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1226	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1227	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1228	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1230	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 266 and a special 36 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 245 and a special 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1231	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1232	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1233	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1234	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1236	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 245 and a special 18 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 253 and a special number 23 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1237	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1238	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1239	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1240	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1241	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1242	So the amendment under general number 253 and a special 23 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 257 and a special number 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1243	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1244	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1246	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1247	Therefore, the amendment under general number 257 and a special 27 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1249	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1250	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: “National Register of Executive Officers, Gradual Position Structure, Systems of Evaluation, Promotion and Selection of Heads (transparency - Criminology and Effectiveness of Public Administration) and other provisions”, was accepted in principle and on articles. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1251	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1252	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1253	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1254	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1255	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1256	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1257	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1258	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: ‘National Register of Executive Officers, rating structure, evaluation, promotion and selection of heads (transparency and efficiency of the Public Administration) and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles and overall, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1259	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1260	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-24-S1-commons.u1261	With the consent of the House at 23.24 minutes the sitting is closed for Thursday, Thursday, 25 February 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, and the topical and urgent debate.
